Tigo extends coverage to Sripada

The road to Adam's Peak decorated by Tigo

Tigo commissioned a new tower in the Sripada on January 1, 2010, a timely venture coinciding with the pilgrimage season which begins in December and continues until April, usually following the sighting of the full moon in December right through to its sighting in May, during the Vesak festival.

Throughout this period, thousands of pilgrims and travellers converge to climb Sripada, also known as Adam's Peak, a site which has been revered for over a thousand years. Tigo CEO, Dumindra Ratnayaka said that "Tigo's Maskeliya site acts as the base for its services at Sripada, and through its launch, it is expected that the surrounding areas will be developed, including the Nallathannya town, Mousakelle and its environs".

"We want to provide services to our customers by enhancing their requirements for mobile connectivity in this region, and are proud to contribute towards the development of the Sripada - Nallathannya area" Ratnayaka said.

Singer leasing for Piaggio three-wheelers

The Piaggio three-wheeler section of the Associated Motorways Limited (AMW) with Singer Finance has facilitated the buying of Piaggio three-wheelers on lease.

Under this facility, Piaggio passenger three-wheelers and Piaggio cargo three-wheelers can be obtained on lease.

Among the major benefits offered to the customers from Singer are, getting free insurance cover, the facility of obtaining leasing facilities at home, the facility of paying the lease instalments on daily, weekly or monthly basis and the facility of paying the lease instalments at any Singer outlet.

HNB opens in Chenkaladi

Hatton National Bank opened their 184th customer centre at Main Street, Chenkaladi recently. The Chief Guest on this occasion was HNB Asst General Manager - Recoveries and Credit Quality Management Lasantha Fernando. Other senior bank officials, Government officials, local businessmen and customers were present at this occasion.

Sampath Bank in Chunnakam and Nelliadi

Sampath Bank opened their 128th and the 129th branches in Chunnakam and Nelliadi recently.

With the opening of these two branches the bank reaches a total of 4 branches in the Northern Province of Sri Lanka with the other two branches being in Vavuniya and Jaffna. Sampath Bank who is the forerunner in providing technology driven banking and financial solutions of global standard, with the traditional Sri Lankan warmth and flavour has been honoured with many national and international accolades recently for their commitment to excellence in products and services.

For the second consecutive year:

Prima Bread sponsors Golf

This year's Sri Lanka Junior Open Golf Championship, which had the active sponsorship of 'Prima Bread', was held at recently at the Royal Colombo Golf Club.

It was a tournament that was open to both boys and girls under the age of 18 years and, has assumed a measure of importance in that it serves as a platform for the Sri Lanka Golf Union to identify potential talent to play at the national level.

It is currently the most prestigious tournament for young golfers in Sri Lanka and this year over 60 players battled it out for top honours indicating the growing popularity of the sport.

It was conducted according to the following age groups; Age group 15-17 years (Gold Division), Age group 11-14 years (Silver Division), and Age group 10 years and under (Bronze Division).

Mithun Perera, Binupa Wijesinghe, Lalith Kumar and Tissa Chandradasa were all past champions at this tournament, and have now gone on to become Sri Lanka's top golfers.

This years winners were 15 -17 years (Gold Division) Winner - Chana Perera 235. 11-14 years (Silver Division) Winner - Sachin de Silva 233 and 10 years and under playing nine holes over two days Winner - Ishira Fernando 95

Sachin de Silva was declared the Sri Lanka Junior National Golf Champion for the year 2009 beating last years' winner Danika De Silva.





