Spiritual mentor and teacher of religious harmony

Birth anniversary - 5th January:

Paramahansa Yogananda has been recognised as one of the pre-eminent spiritual figures of our time, and the influence of his life and work still continue to grow. Many of the religious and philosophical concepts and methods he introduced decades ago are now finding expression in education, psychology, business, medicine and in other spheres, thus contributing in far-reaching ways to a more integrated, humane and spiritual vision of human life.

Paramahansa Yogananda was born on 5th January 1893 in Gorapur in North Eastern India near Himalayan Mountains to Bengali parents Bhagabati Charan Ghosh and Gyana Prabha Ghosh and was named Mukunda Lal Ghosh, at birth. He graduated from Calcutta University. His name was changed to Yogananda in 1915 when he entered the ancient monastic Swami order and in 1935 his Guru Swami Yukteswar bestowed on him the religious title of Paramahansa.

Paramahansa Yogananda was chosen to go to the West to teach the fundamental harmony between the Holy Bible and the Sankhya Philosophy of India by none other than Mahavatar Babaji, a living Yogi of Modern India who has chosen to live for the duration of this particular world cycle. Babaji who has overcome death is living for centuries.

He has initiated few of the great Sages. He is said to be ever in communion with Jesus Christ too.

Many could recall a recent telecast by the Indian TV channel, Star Vijay, the visit by their crew to the cave in which Babaji is living, located in the risky and dangerous Himalayan jungle which gave an opportunity to the viewers to view a spiritual journey which cannot be easily undertaken by any devotee.

Babaji's disciple, a great Yogi Lahiri Mahasaya is the Guru of Swami Sri Yukteswar whose disciple is Paramahansa Yogananda. A notable feature in this line of Gurus is that all four of them have exhibited some uniqueness whilst living and after death. Whilst Babaji is still living for centuries, his disciple Lahiri Mahasaya resurrected after his death on 26th September 1895 and appeared before three of his disciples in a real flesh form. His disciple Sri Yukteswar who was also a great yogi, resurrected his body on 19th June 1936 after his death and appeared in a flesh and blood form to his disciple Paramahansa Yogananda and answered many of his questions including a detailed account of life after death. When Paramahansa Yogananda attained mahasamadhi in 1952, his body was in a phenomenal state of immutability without any physical disintegration even after 20 days after death, as confirmed by the Director of the Los Angeles mortuary. Paramahansa Yogananda founded his work in India in 1917 as Yogoda Satsanga Society (YSS) of India; and in 1920 he founded the Self-Realisation fellowship (SRF) in Los Angeles, America to cater for the West.

Paramahansa Yogananda confirmed that it is from the deep spiritual insight of his Guru that he learnt to perceive the deathless essence of the Holy Bible. He began his mission in America as a delegate to the International Congress Religious Liberals in Boston in 1920. For more than a decade Paramahansa Yogananda travelled at length and breadth of America, delivering lectures almost daily to capacity American audiences in major cities, so much so Los Angeles Times reported on 28th January 1925: "the Philharmonic Auditorium presents the extraordinary spectacle of thousands being turned away, an hour before the advertised opening of a lecture with 3000 seat hall filled to its utmost capacity and Sw. Yogananda is the attraction." Since 1930, he began to withdraw gradually from nationwide public lecturing and concentrated his efforts on talks and classes for those who were deeply interested in seeking God. His invaluable talks have been compiled and made available as publications by YSS/SRF namely Man's Eternal Quest, The Divine Romance and Journey to Self-realisation. In this anthology of talks, he speaks to the deepest needs of the human heart and soul. He was the first great master of India to live in the West for a long period of over 30 years. He has initiated more than 100,000 students in Yoga and scientific techniques for awakening the Divine consciousness in man.

Through YSS and SRF, the teachings of Paramahansa Yogananda are made available to seekers of Truth in all parts of the world in the form of Lessons. Irrespective of one's own religious affiliation, seekers benefit from these non-sectarian and scientific instructions. These lessons offer practical wisdom for everyday living and give illuminating instructions in attaining communion with God - the Source of all and solace.

Today, as perhaps never before, when humanity is searching for peace and security in a world, profoundly shaken by the turbulent results of inharmonious thoughts and behaviour, Sri Paramahansa Yogananda's Spiritual legacy has come as a lifeline to humanity. For any further information contact Telephone: 2504533/077 6602523.





