LTTE conspiracy to defame Govt - Minister

Nadira GUNATILLEKE

The LTTE and certain elements assisting them have launched a conspiracy to sling mud on the Government and the successful humanitarian operation of the Armed Forces.

A fabricated letter with forged signatures of two doctors have been sent to all UN agencies stating that there are no adequate drugs, doctors and equipment for people in uncleared areas, Healthcare and Nutrition Minister and the Leader of the House Nimal Siripala de Silva said.

Minister de Silva was addressing the weekly Cabinet press briefing at the Government Information Department Auditorium yesterday. He said Dr. Vardharajan and Dr.Sthayamurthi have already confirmed that there is no connection between them and the fabricated letter and they do not know anything about such a letter and have not sent any letters to anyone.

"They also said they do not have email and fax facilities to send such a letter. Therefore it is obvious that there is a conspiracy and a hidden agenda", the Minister said.

The Government has sent medicine, doctors and medical equipment to uncleared areas. The complete quota had already been sent. The LTTE robs everything sent to innocent civilians just as they stocked food, fuel and other things in Kilinochchi. The LTTE forces Government officials to send inaccurate (a much higher number than the exact figure) statistics of civilians to the Central Government to allocate quotas. The Government sends more than the required amount of everything. The Sri Lankan Government is the only administration in the world which did this for the past 30 years. The LTTE has been using all drugs and medical equipment, the Minister added.

Minister de Silva stressed that as soon as the Ministry receives the clearance of landmines, it will send more human resources to the North. A large number of doctors, nurses and other staff have already volunteered to serve in the North. The Ministry will assure their safety and are waiting for the clearance of landmines from the Armed Forces.

It takes time to send drugs to Mullaitivu because everything has to be checked before sending to the uncleared area. The LTTE is moving the Mullaitivu hospital from one place to another as the forces advance, he said.

Minister de Silva said the withdrawal of the Interim Order in connection with hedging issue has only proved within which boundaries a Government can act.

The Government does not wish to comment on court judgements and will act according to the law, he said.

Information and Media Minister and Cabinet Spokesman Anura Priyadarshana Yapa said the UNP leader has turned back 180 degrees after the Armed Forces captured Mullaitivu.

Minister Yapa said the UNP leader waited till the Armed Forces captured Mullaitivu to make a statement.

When the Armed Forces captured Thoppigala, he said it was a jungle and the Armed Forces were heading towards Medawachchiya instead of Kilinochchi. He then mentioned about going to Pamankada instead of Alimankada, the Minister said

The Minister pointed out how the UNP leader accepted the truth at the end when there was nothing left for him to do against victories.

Responding to a question, Minister Yapa said there is a management appointed to administrate ANCL and only important issues will receive the attention of the ministers.





