Relief package for tsunami hit tourism projects

The Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) has decided to grant an extension of the repayment period by two years and the grace period by one year for the loans granted to Tsunami affected tourism sector related projects under Susahana and Small Business Revival Programme (SBRP) loan schemes implemented by the CBSL.

The CBSL through 32 Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) implemented two major refinance loan schemes, i.e. SUSAHANA and SBRP in order to assist Micro Small and Medium scale Enterprises (MSMEs) that were affected by Tsunami on 26.12.2004.

Under the above two schemes a total number of 10,532 affected enterprises in the Tsunami affected regions have been financed with a total amount of Rs.5,764 million during 2005-2007. Approximately 400 tourism related MSMEs including hotels, restaurants, guest houses, gem and jewellery businesses, batik and garments had been financed with Rs.1077 million under the above two loan schemes.

As estimated by the Ministry of Tourism, 586 establishments had been directly affected by Tsunami, out of which 65 establishments fall under medium and large scale hotels and restaurants, which were allowed to borrow a maximum loan amount up to Rs.60 million per borrower under the two loan schemes. Further, borrowers have been granted a two year grace period prior to commencement of repayment plus eight year total repayment period to settle the loans.

During the recent past, many tourism related enterprises reported that their income has been affected due to low tourist arrivals, and requested the CBSL to consider extension of the grace period and loan repayment period to settle their dues without much difficulty.

Accordingly, considering the magnitude of the impact of the industry to the national economy and the cash flow constraints currently experienced by some of the affected sub projects, the CBSL has approved the following relief package for the borrowers who obtained loans for tourism related projects under SUSAHANA and SBRP loan schemes:

(a) Extension of the grace period further by one year making the total grace period to three years for Tsunami affected enterprises which borrowed loans from PFIs under the two loan schemes, i.e. SUSAHANA and Small Business Revival Program (SBRP), implemented by the Regional Development Department of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka.

(b) Enhancement of the maximum repayment period from 8 years to 10 years, including 3 year grace period, for such rescheduled loans under SUSAHANA and SBRP.

The PFIs have already been informed to take necessary action to reschedule such loans and charge only the interest at 6 percent per annum during the extended grace period considering the cash flow constraints of each sub project.





