Golden Bells for a Golden Person

"You did not choose me it is I who chose you"

Yes, the Good Shepherd chose Mrs. Grace Fernandez fifty years ago for this vocation "not profession" of moulding young minds.

It is for the very first time in the history of St. Bridget's Convent that the bells chimed on the 21st of January in the primary school to celebrate the Golden Jubilee in the teaching vocation for none other than Mrs. Therese Grace Fernandez.

Born as the third daughter to Late Mr. J. X. Fernandez and Mrs. Gertrude Corea. She was educated at Holy Family Convent Bambalapitiya, after which she decided to enter the teaching vocation, taking after her two elder sisters who were teachers serving their alma mater.

Mrs. Grace Fernandez joined the staff of St. Bridget's primary on the 16th of January 1960. She started her career as a class teacher and successfully completed her general teacher training course in 1976 at the Teacher's Training College.

Since then many are the students who have passed through her caring hands and excel in various fields globally today, bearing witness to her understanding and loving guidance floating the message of their alma mater far and wide.

As to the motto of St. Bridget's Convent which says, "Gently and Firmly" Mrs. Grace Fernandez is very soft spoken but a strict disciplinarian, gentle and exemplary in her ways. She is simply and modestly dressed to suit any occasion. Today she is a pillar of strength and a second mother not only to her colleagues but also to many young parents who come to her for her guidance and advice.

During these past fifty years Mrs. Grace Fernandez has served the school in various positions not only as the class teacher but has been the Vice Principal of the school, Teacher in charge of swimming and the House Mistress for several years. Whenever, there was a fund raising project in school, she has been a great strength being the key person to handle the finance and the printing of souvenirs.

Happily married to Joe Fernandez she is a devoted mother of two children. Her son Manoj Fernandez is an Electronics Engineer and her daughter Dr. (Miss) Kishani Fernandez is presently in Australia. She is also the proud grandmother of two grand children.

Being a model role of a teacher very dedicated towards her cause, she is a shining example to all present day teachers.' While wishing her all success in the future we hope and pray that St. Bridget's Convent would have many more teachers of her calibre.





