Over Rs. 800 m worth development projects implemented - Minister

A.A.L. Dias, Matale district group correspondent

The Government has implemented several development projects in Matale district during the year 2007 costing more than Rs. 800 million. In 2008 several other development projects will be launched to promote the living standard of the public said the Minister of Urban Development Rohana Dissanayaka.

He was addressing the District Co-ordinating Committee (DCC) meeting held at Matale district secretariat auditorium. The heads of the Provincial Departments and district Parliamentarians with local politicians participated.

The Minister said dedication of the officials is essential to carry out this programme. MP Sujatha Alahakoon, JVP said the historical banyan tree located in Longwheel area should be protected because it has an archaeological value. The public in the area are using this place to offer homage.

CP Councillor Sarath Wijesinghe-JVP said the small-scale clove cultivators in the Knuckles reservation area are inconvenienced owing to the forest conservation officials having banned their cultivations, while they allowed the large-scale clove cultivators to continue.

Laggala PS Chairman, A. Kumarasinghe-UPFA said the Forest Conservation Department should make arrangements for the minor cultivators in this area to obtain their clove harvests.

Chairman CPC, W.M. Yasamana-UPFA said alternative lands must be provided for the minor scale clove cultivators. Then they can continue their cultivation and obtain an income. Otherwise they will be dispossessed of their means of living.

Minister Rohana Dissanayaka-UPFA said, I will take necessary action regarding this matter after discussions with the respective Minister. Matale District Secretary Gamini Senaviratna said necessary action will be taken to preserve the historical banyan tree located in Long-wheel area.

Chairman CPC-W.M. Yasamana-UPFA said there is an acute shortage of agrarian service divisional officials in the district. Thus fertiliser distribution is not properly handled.

Minister Rohana Dissanayaka-UPFA said all vacancies in the State sector will be filled next year with the beginning of the "Grow more and develop the country" (Api Wawamu - Rata Nagamu) programme.

Director General Ivan de Silva of the Mahaweli Authority of Sri Lanka said we will take about seven years to complete the Moragahakanda project. The Divisional Government Authorities can continue their development activities.

Naula Divisional Secretary - A Sirisena said priority will be given to sand miners who were dispossessed of their permits, under the issuing of new sand permits while the new applicants will be considered under the second stage.

C.P. Councillor, Sarath Wijesingha-JVP said earlier this committee had taken a decision to issue permits to those dispossessed of their sand permits. Kabarawa road has been renovated though no action has been taken by the Matale CTB Depot to deploy a bus on the route.

Minister Rohana Dissanayaka, UPFA said the officers in the area should be educated regarding the master plan for Moragahakanda project. Then many problems can be solved in this area. The financial allocations given by the Government for the construction activities must be used for those purposes in time. We can then obtain a good result.

He said the road maintenance of the Provincial Highways Department is not satisfactory. Therefore officials should pay their attention to this matter.

Within 2007 we have completed several development projects and Government expects to start other development projects in 2008 with the dedication of officials. We have discussed many important matters and took several decisions for the benefit of the public and I wish to wind up the committee meeting.





