Investing in Unit Trusts advantageous

Hiran H. Senewiratne

The Government should take all steps to establish law and order in the country by way of developing infrastructure in the north and east, said Chief Executive Officer/ Executive Director Ceybank Unit Trust Funds Chitra Sathkumara.

He said the best way of bridging the gap between the Tamil and Sinhala community is having a good transport system linking Jaffna and Hambantota.

This will help to promote a strong relationship and confidence between the two races in the country. The implementation of a good road network between the north and the south will help to integrate all communities in the country. Therefore, we must respect each and every person to have peace and harmony in the country, he said.

Q: What are the advantages of investing in Unit Trusts rather than in the stock market?

A: Investing in the stock market is buying shares of a company at a certain price by looking and studying the market situation of a company.

For that an ordinary investor/person has to study the company's profiles and annual reports. When it comes to Unit Trusts we have a professional set of Fund Managers to advise investors on how to invest in Unit Trusts. Therefore, we have taken all market risks by doing a professional service.

Chitra Sathkumara Picture by Saliya Rupasinghe

We also have a large asset base, which has diversified our risk into other areas, which provide a better return to our Unit Trust holders. Our shareholders are the Bank of Ceylon, Sri Lanka Insurance, Carson Cumberbatch Plc, HSBC Global Asset Management and Unit Trust of India.

Q: Does it have minimum risks in investing in Unit Trust Funds rather than in shares?

A: We have been in the industry for the last 15 years. Our Trustee is the Bank of Ceylon, which investors could easily access through the Bank of Ceylon branch network spread throughout the country.

Our asset funds are re-invested in the Stock market and fixed income markets including Treasury bills, bonds and other commercial papers. We try to earn money that belongs to Unit holders, which they could enjoy by way of capital gains and an annual dividend. These investments are basically medium to long-term investments. We are backed by strong entities and our asset portfolio is highly diversified. Therefore, it has a minimum risk involvement than investing in stocks.

Q: What are the future plans of the company?

A: Ceybank Unit Trust Funds will launch a money market fund for the public soon. The current high interest rates in the country prompted us to launch the Fund for the public. Therefore, we wish to collect Rs one billion before April.

Once we collect the funds from the public we would reinvest it in Treasury Bills, bonds and commercial papers to yield a higher return for our customers/investors. All Unit Trusts are based on securities, which trade in fluctuating markets. There could be ups and downs in the medium to long term which has been more an upward trend beating inflation and bank "saving" interest rates.

Currently, we manage two funds in the country, which is Sri Lanka's largest unit trust fund with a value of around Rs 2.2 billion and also the biggest Equity Unit Trust Fund (Ceybank Century Growth Fund).

Q: How would the global recession impact Sri Lanka's money market?

A: With this global crisis our exports will come down, especially the tea market. That would affect the profitability of companies and the stock market would also come down. Therefore, the Unit Trust also would be affected as we have invested in the stock market.

Last year on account of the financial crisis the stock market came down by 40 per cent but the Unit Trust went down only 20 per cent because of the diversification of our portfolio. That has minimised the risk. If the war stops and interest rates reduce our stock market will perform well irrespective of global recession.

Q: Do you think that the Stock market is the barometer of economic development in Sri Lanka?

A: In Sri Lanka only less than 300 companies are listed in the stock market. Major sectors such as agriculture and apparel are not represented properly in the market. Although all the major sectors in the economy are not represented in the stock market it is an accepted barometer to understand economic development.

Q: As a decision-maker of a leading entity in the country how would you advise decision markers of the country to reform the country's economy?

A: First and foremost we have to establish law and order in the country. Our leaders also understand what is happening in the global environment. Based on that they should take decisions to move forward the economy. I also advocate to increase the market capitalisation of the stock market by getting ourselves included in global indices to attract foreign fund managers.

Q: What is your philosophy in life?

A: I am a strong Buddhist and I want to help people and leading a very simple life is my philosophy.

Q: What are your retirement plans?

A: My village is Kuliyapitiya. I have a coconut estate and want to get into the plantation and grow plants in the estate once I retire.

Profile

Chitra Sathkumara Name - Chitra Sathkumara School attended - Trinity College, Kandy Civil status - Married with two children Education - Academic - Bachelor of Science- University of Sri Jayawardenapura MBA -Fordham University of New York Professional - Professional Training Institute of Capital Market of Unit Trust of India - Mumbai Occupation - CEO/Executive Director, Ceybank Unit Trust Funds.





