More confrontation than compromise noticeable

There is a huge gap between the approaches by developing countries and the developed countries to solve the climate change problem, a member of the Sri Lankan delegation Dr. Palitha Kohona, permanent representative of Sri Lanka to the United Nations told the Daily News at the UN Climate Summit venue at the Bella Centre, last December. Dr. Kohona who was busy engaged in the Climate change negotiations, shared his views with the Daily News during a brief break. Dr. Kohona told that developed countries demanded a lot of commitments from the developing countries while offering very much below the expectations.

Dr. Palitha Kohona at the UN Climate Summit in Copenhagen.

Both sides have their solutions; unfortunately, the groups within the developing countries have their own approaches." He said that diverse approaches negatively affect the bargaining position of the G-77 and China group, which is essential in any international negotiation, he said. The G-77 and China group is one of the key players in the climate change negotiations.

He explained that countries have further grouped themselves among the main G-77 China Group according to their economic interests and level of vulnerability. Some of these are the Least Developed Countries (LDCs), Countries in the rain forest group, most vulnerable countries, and Allegiance of Small Island States (AOSIS) such as Maldives, Tuvalu and the big industrialized developing countries such as India, China and Brazil.

"To find cohesion among these countries has fallen on Sudanese Chairman of the G77 and China group, which is no easy task," he remarked.

Dr. Kohona said that the AOSIS countries and have demanded that carbon dioxide emissions should be reduced by the major developed countries so that the average global temperature would not be increased 1.5 degrees Celsius.

However, the developed countries, who are historically responsible for the global warming and climate change have suggested a different level of emission reductions as a part to their approach to the solutions, Dr. Kohona said.

Commenting on the adaptation fund, a fund to be established under the UNFCCC to fund countries to adapt to the changes in the climate, Dr. Kohona told that sums have been offered too.

Dr. Kohona said that AOSIS countries appear to have "coloured" their decision making process while USA has qualified their approach as they demand China, India and Brazil to cut CO2 emissions.

However he said that the countries did not like to suspend their development in arbitrary fashion. However, China has offered to domestically reduce their emission targets without entering into legal agreements.





