Mechanism to avert artificial food shortage - President

Chaminda Perera in Ragala

President Mahinda Rajapaksa yesterday said the Government will put in place a novel mechanism to avert an artificial food shortage in the market ahead of the elections. The President was addressing a mass rally organized by Livestock Development Minister C.B. Ratnayake in Ragala yesterday.

President Mahinda Rajapaksa greets the crowd at the meeting held in Ragala yesterday. Picture by Kamal Jayamanna

He said some unscrupulous traders were creating an artificial shortage of essential commodities by hiding them to achieve narrow and petty political mileage. President Rajapaksa requested such traders to put their stocks to the market as the people cannot be taken for a ride by this type of mean tricks ahead of the elections.

He said the country has ample stocks of essential commodities including rice. "Some businessmen with vested interests are creating an artificial shortage by hording them," he said. The President added this type of situation prevailed during the 1977 General Election and an actress came on the stage for want of soap during the 1977 General Election campaign.

He said all food commodities were available in the market just a day after the General Election in 1977 and the Government led by him will not allow such a situation to prevail again.

President Rajapaksa stressed that previous Governments destroyed a number of Government institutions such as the Cooperative Wholesale Establishment (CWE) and Cooperative movement in the name of privatization.

These institutions through their outlets prevented the consumers from being exploited by the businessmen and issued essential commodities to them at cheaper rate, he said.

The President stressed that the Government is in the process of revitalizing the Cooperative Movement to safeguard consumers from unscrupulous businessmen.

He stressed that the up country will receive tremendous development under the Kadurata Pubudamu program to be implemented soon.

"We have promoted infrastructure facilities in the up country particularly in the estate sector for the past four years and the Government is committed to uplift the living standards of the people in the region in the ensuing years too," he said.

President Rajapaksa added that estate workers' children should receive better education and facilities. "They should be equipped with latest technical know how to stand on par with their partners in foreign countries."

He stressed that the people are free from fear psychosis and all should join hands to develop the nation.





