Online edition of Daily News - Lakehouse NewspapersSome aspects that go to make the 'Blues Battle' When the crowds keep streaming in on the opening day of the 130th annualRoyal- thomain cricket encounter at the SSC ground, their first impression will be that of a finished product, where the stage in all its entirety is set, to create the right kind of atmosphere and environment for both the performing cricketers and the varied spectators, so as to ensure their comfort and security. Not forgetting as well avenues provided for food, drink and entertainment, within the confines of the respective enclosures. Now all that one sees, apart from cricket at this 'Big Match', does not spring up overnight. For it has been meticulously planned and arranged for, by a group comprising loyal old boys, the two principals, the members of the staff and students drawn from both colleges. This painstaking group, has through the years come to be spoken of as the Royal-Thomian joint organising committee, the members of which have been found to sacrificially give of their time, energy and if needs be, their money, so as to ensure that everything moves on smoothly without a hitch and, that this traditional biggest of 'Big Matches' of these two leading institutions is maintained and lives on. It has been the unwritten accepted practice that through mutual consent, the respective colleges host the matches alternatively. Even more salutary is that, the chairman of the organising committee too, alternates from an old boy of Royal or S. Thomas' as determined by the college responsible for hosting the current match. This leads, as we mentioned earlier to the formation of the joint organising committee headed by the Chairman, the Secretary, the Treasurer, their respective assistants and members picked from the two colleges, made up of a variable body of around forty members. In turn this gives way to the sub committees such as the secretarial, sponsorship, match arrangements, security and yet others as deemed necessary. Needless to say, the student body too lends support by their respective committees like - the Student Advisory, Souvenir, Tent, Prefects and Stewards. Since this is regarded as a major undertaking, preparations for it begins in the month of August, for a match that is to be played in March next year. Where the committee firstly meets every fortnight and then increases the frequency of meetings, as they keep getting closer to the match itself. That which is pleasing to observe, is the sense of cordiality, that prevails amongst the representatives of both Colleges, as they work towards a common goal and objective. This healthy exercise of oneness of spirit, goodwill and fellowship has through the years been a characteristic feature of Royalists and Thomians, wherever they meet. Ah! Yes being human, there are moments when rushing through, accuracy is sacrificed for speed and on striving to keep dates and targets, there could be times of irritation and annoyance, but what is heartening is, that at the end of the day, everything is taken in the best of spirit. In recent years the committees have done well to minimise unruly crowd behaviour and hooliganism. These amongst other things had deteriorated to the extent, that many kept invading the grounds whence every boundary was scored, thus making erosions into valuable playing time. There are however, yet the odd one or two who still try to spoil the good work of the committee, after taking one too many. Such unruly elements try to draw attention to themselves and gain undue prominence by their stupid, silly antics to get involved in unnecessary, vituperative harangue and subsequent brawls. Be that as it may, these encounters in their wake, have produced men of great eminence, who in their time have made a tremendous impact on the life of this country, some even guiding the destinies of it as well. Perhaps these men may have learnt a thing or two, on the playing fields of Reid Avenue and Mount Lavinia. Taken by and large, organising of a traditional match of this magnitude and nature, could by no means be easy. For it could be an exacting, exciting and exhaustive ordeal. But if in the end you achieve a measure of success, then it could be both a satisfying as well as a rewarding experience.



