Role of medical professionals

Extracted from a speech delivered by Prof. Wiswa Warnapala, Minister of Higher Education at the induction ceremony of the College of Surgeons held at the Waters Edge on 17th January 2009 at which Dr. Narendra Pinto was made the President of College of Surgeons

I need to draw your attention to the importance of professions in modern society; the modern professions, since the middle of the 19th century, made an impact on society, and the choice of individuals to hold positions of authority in society became a central issue in all democratic societies. The development of modern professions represents the most important change that has occurred in the occupational systems of modern democratic societies.

A professional, whatever the field of his specialisation, is a person who, with technical competence, indulges in the professional application of disciplined knowledge. With the emergence of professions as important institutions of public responsibility, the methods of choosing people to occupy positions of public responsibility began to change, and merit and competition assumed importance.

In other words, ability has to be assessed through an academic type examination with which both competence and suitability are determined.

All professions, which enriched the intellectual life of the country, came to be built on this historical foundation, for instance, professional education in Sri Lanka began in the 1870's with the establishment of the Ceylon Medical College and the Law College, established in 1874, was the institution, which produced the members of the legal fraternity.

The impact of the Ceylon Medical College was such that 67 percent of the Surgeons and Assistant Surgeons were Ceylonese by 1907 and the entire Medical Services came to be completely Ceylonised by 1919. In the initial phase, the Ceylon Medical Service was dominated by the Burgher community and by 1925 the Sinhalese were in a majority.

amply demonstrated commitment

Prof. Wiswa Warnapala

All communities produced distinguished Surgeons who, as Dr. R L Spittel, excelled in activities which did not come within their speciality, and this amply demonstrated the commitment of this intellectual community to the promotion of public research in the country Dr. R L Spittel, as we all know, made a pioneering contribution to the study of Anthropology by undertaking a number of studies on the nomadic culture of the Veddha community.

There were several others who distinguished themselves in their work, and they became household names in the country; it is with a deep sense of satisfaction that I refer to Dr. P R Anthonis who, as a distinguished member of the College of Surgeons, has made a remarkable contribution to your field as well as to the development of the health services of the country.

Medical education

The two Institutions - the Ceylon Medical College and the Law College - till the establishment of the University of Ceylon in 1942, dominated the intellectual life of the country.

In the sphere of Medical education, the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Ceylon, to which the Medical College was affiliated, dominated the medical studies for nearly a century till the second Medical Faculty was created at the University of Ceylon at Peradeniya, which, then, was part of the University of Ceylon.

During this period, the professionals in the field of Medicine, as an active element of the professional intellectual enterprise, made a contribution to the process of economic and social development by assisting in the expansion of the health sector in the country.

Today Sri Lanka has a University system consisting of 15 Universities, and there are eight Medical Faculties functioning within the system catering to several hundred of students.

Universities, through their respective Faculties of Medicine, are assisting the country with the production of competent and responsible medical professionals needed for the health services of the country, and the country's health services are part of the welfare edifice, which we inherited since the early thirties.

It was with the active assistance of professionals in Medicine that the country was able to achieve impressive results in the field of health care.

The policy on the delivery of both medical and educational services, in fact, became the development style of the country; what I mean is that the organisation and expansion of health services of the country reflected this style of development. This system, supported by the State, is manned by a medical profession created through a University system, which still remains totally State-funded.

It is at this stage that I need to draw your attention to the role of the Universities in the field of Professional Medical education. In our country, in terms of perception of both parents and students, Medical studies still remain the most attractive field of study.

Though the country has 15 Universities within the conventional system of University education, the Faculties of Medicine have been established in eight Universities, three of which are comparatively new Universities.

Insufficient Facilities

Two more Universities have requested the Government to establish Medical Faculties but the Government, though agreeable to it in terms of policy, is not prepared for it, primarily because of the need to fully up-grade the infrastructure of the existing Faculties of the Eastern University and the Rajarata University.

It is true that the existing facilities are insufficient to increase the intake, and this year, out of 298,000 who sat the A/L examination, 131,000 have qualified and the annual intake is still within the range of 20,000.

In other words, the annual intake to the entire system is within this range, which, in effect, means that more than 100,000 are left out of the system. This, in my view, is the major challenge before the Government, and it is on the basis of the argument of the need for alternative forms of access that we need to generate a discussion on the relationship between the Sri Lankan State and the Universities system. Because of the fact that the system is totally State - funded, the system cannot be expanded due to the lack of enough public resources.

Sri Lanka, unlike other countries, do not have benefactors; for instance, we do not have Tatas and Birlas like in India, to help us with extra funding.

non-University tertiary institutions

Our failure in the past to address this problem was entirely due to certain reasons, which are largely political in character, and today there is an invisible private sector operating through non-University tertiary institutions which cater to nearly 50,000 students who probably pay Rs.50,000 to Rs.100,000 or more per year for their higher education. In addition, nearly 10,000 to 15,000 students go abroad for higher education, majority of whom come within the category of Medical students.

Therefore the need to expand the access to higher educational opportunities can be treated as an urgent issue and the failure to address it would result in waste of intellectual resources and human capital of the country.

The annual intake to Medicine is in the region of 1155; in 2005 it was 1135 and in 2003 it was 905. In my view, this is an insufficient an intake, and this needs to be expanded without lowering the standards.

A total of 1155 are admitted. There is yet another development within the Faculties of Medicine with which the intake has been expanded by the introduction of such courses as Physiotherapy, Nursing, Pharmacy, Medical Laboratory Studies and Radiography, and they fall within the category of Para - Medical Studies.

The courses in Para-Medical studies in the University system began in 2005, and the aim was to increase the intake as well as to diversify the system of Medical studies in the Universities.

With the rapid changes in technology and occupational specialisations, Pharmacy and Nursing too have achieved a professional status.

In the area of Medical studies in the country, there is a Post-Graduate sector, which needs to be expanded to produce more and more specialists; the Post-Graduate Institute of Medicine (PGIM) was created in 1980 and it has undertaken post-graduate training in a wide variety of subjects.

In my view, post-graduate studies have been neglected in Sri Lanka, and this applies to all disciplines in the Universities. This neglect was due to the over-emphasis on under-graduate education; all our Universities are primarily undergraduate institutions.

I propose to change this emphasis and provide the Post-Graduate Sector with more assistance so that a post-graduate intellectual culture could make an impact on deteriorating learning culture of the Universities, which, in my view, need to be converted into centres of learning.

Yet another factor is that if the Universities are to be global centres of learning an effective post-graduate sector is necessary.

Intellectual resources and human capital are being wasted in this country due to the inability to formulate a proper higher education policy focussing on the global changes.

Facing challenges

Prof. Wiswa Warnapala

There are two challenges before us; one relates to the need to increase the access and the next involves the need to re-examine the relationship between the State and the Universities, focussing primarily on the question whether the available public resources are adequate to improve the system.

We need to break away from the traditional social demand model of education under which education was made free from kindergarten to the University; I propose an adjustment in the sphere of University education. In the context of the expansion of higher education in the developing countries, the focus is on the question of direct State funding of higher education, and the dominance of the State system of University education has been questioned.

In other words, many developed and developing countries, in the given global context, are no more interested in placing reliance on the traditional State funded models of University education, which, in effect, means that there is a trend towards more institutional differentiation under which more and more non-State higher educational institutions, more in the nature of non-University tertiary institutions, are encouraged to meet the increasing demand for higher education.

Today in many a developing country, the enrolment has been expanded through the participation of non-State higher educational institutions. Of the total number of 40 countries listed by the World Bank, 12 countries have encouraged private sector participation whereas another 14 countries shared nearly 20 percent of the enrolment.

The countries, which came within the higher category, are Philippines, Korea, Indonesia, Japan, India and Bangladesh.

It is in this context that Sri Lanka needs to look at the issue of State funding of the Universities.

The numbers seeking opportunities for higher education through a single route-Ordinary level, Advanced level and the University - now available in the system, has created a massive burden on the existing system, the public resources of which are very limited.





