Hotels

International Day of Italian Cuisines 2010

Tagliatelle al ragù Bolognese, the official dish of the IDIC 2010:

On January 17 (tomorrow), Mount Lavinia Hotel will be the epicentre of the great ola of tagliatelle al rag. The 2010 International Day of Italian Cuisine (IDIC) will be a unique opportunity to celebrate the Italian Sunday Dinner, that according to the Italian tradition is the day reserved for a special meal done the right way.

Chef Leo

These meals deserve an exclusive chapter in the history and life of Italian Cuisines. Mount Lavinia Hotel and Resorts's own Chef Ira is an Italian-GVCI (Gruppo Virtuale Chef Italiani), his assistant Chef Leo interprets the Italian dinner in its truest form. Mount Lavinia Hotel will have video clips in connection with the celebration, and will be, of course, clips on Bologna, where a great honour to tagliatelle al ragù will be held.

The annual appeal to Italian culinary professionals and lovers of Italian food, is a tradition now. Thousands of them will join Italian Chefs-GVCI on tomorrow to celebrate authentic Italian cuisine and to protect it from forgery and counterfeiting.

The IDIC is born from a mission with an aim to educate worldwide patrons, but more than anything else, to protect the right to get what guests pay for when going to restaurants labelled as 'Italian', that is authentic and quality Italian cuisine.

Italian Cuisine

Organized by Chef Leo and Chef Ira of Mount Lavinia Hotels and Resorts chain, the International Day of Italian Cuisines promises to be an exciting and successful event at the Mount Lavinia Hotel.

The dish of the 2010 International Day of Italian Cuisines (IDIC) will be Tagliatelle al ragù alla bolognese. Hundreds of Italian chefs around the world will repeat tomorrow the ola of the last two years, when the dishes to be celebrated and protected were Carbonara and Risotto alla Milanese. Tagliatelle al rag, originally and symbolic of the city of Bologna and its surroundings, is by now one of the most popular dishes of Italian Cuisine and therefore the most counterfeited around the world.

'We want to let Italian food lovers all around the world know how to cook and enjoy a quality authentic tagliatelle al ragù which, in the majority of the cases, has nothing to do with the awful, wrongly called 'bolognaise sauces', says Maldives based GVCI's Chef Ira.

Spicy Floribbean cuisine south beach style

Seventh Slow Food night:

Florida plus Caribbean equals spicy fusion cuisine, said Chef Leo, President of the Slow Food Chapter in Sri Lanka and Senior Sous Chef of Mount Lavinia Hotel. Enjoy yourself, and in my view experimentation with recipes is how this wonderful cuisine came to be in the first place.

There will be many dishes for you to try and once you have the taste of it you will crave for more. The complexity of the spices and soft fruit and citrus flavours can be a bit daunting at first, but then again, no great dish was loved on the first taste.

Floribbean Food

'What on earth is Floribbean Food' The answer ties back into the wonderful melting pot of cultures found in the city of Miami. Floribbean is generally a mingling of culinary influences from Caribbean islands like The Bahamas, Barbados, Haiti and Jamaica. These island cooking styles have mixed with Miami's proximity cities including Cuba, the Dominican Republic, and creation style unlike anything else in the world.

In addition Miami, like New Orleans, could lay claim to being 'fusion' cuisine before 'fusion' became a hot buzzword. Both places incorporate the best of a variety of culinary traditions and this is beautifully expressed in the food you will find at the 7th Slow Food Night at the Governor's Roof Top at Mount Lavinia Hotel.

So why Floribbean Food on the Slow Food night on tonight? When asked the General Manager Anura Dewapura who began his career as an Executive Chef and knows his food, he stated this, "A dynamic mixing of flavours - elaborate pairings of powerful spices which Sri Lanka too can claim to, slowly melts away into softer flavors. And no doubt Fresh Food which is the heart of Slow Food".

There is a huge emphasis on freshness when it comes to cooking Floribbean Cuisine. Because of the density of the dishes, the only way to have your recipe come out perfect is to ensure that the taste of the ingredients play off each other as they were meant to. Lots of Fruit and Sri Lankan fruit could lay claim to this to. A wide variety of fruits and fruit juices are used to augment the flavors of the spices. Mango, papaya, and others are popular favorites.

Key elements of the Floribbean style food include spices, citrus (like intense Key limes) and other fruits like mamey (a tropical fruit with a flavor something like a cross between peach and apricot), mango, and papaya are very common. The spice trade that went through most of the Caribbean also contributed to this region's flavor profile adding spices as diverse as ginger, allspice and cumin.

When Floribbean dishes combine elements from all these traditions, you will definitely see heat from peppers balanced by sweetness from fruit. Other elements such as coconut and rum are common, too.

Chef Leo will incorporate all these elements. He will also add new techniques and flavours, keeping the evolving Floribbean cuisine deliciously exciting. His culinary masterpiece was borne from of Miami so grab on to your cutlery because this will be one heck of a ride.

Jazz fusion at the Lakeside

Jazz at Dusk

A smooth fusion of African, European and Latin rhythms, jazz can touch your soul and stir your mood. The monthly jazz evening at Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo, Jazz at Dusk, will take place on Friday, January 22 from 7.30 pm by the poolside.

Both groups play an eclectic repertoire of jazz from the great legends of the art, such as Diana Krall, Charlie Parker, John Coltrane, Miles Davis, Sonny Rollins, Dave Brubeck, George Gershwin, Billy Strayhorn, Chic Corea, Sadao Watanabe, Dave Grusin, Lee Ritenour and Larry Carlton, to name a few, covering a cross-section of the early years of traditional jazz to the exciting and innovative modern era.

They play an array of tunes from styles as diverse as swing, traditional jazz, blues, Latin, jazz funk and strict tempo. With such a heady mix of music, one is definitely in for a good time at Jazz at Dusk.

The music will continue into the night, making it the perfect way to end a long work week. The lake, twilight and jazz, what more could you ask for?

Mexican delight at Cinnamon Lakeside

Mexican cuisine

Well known for its varied flavours, colourful decoration and a variety of spices and ingredients, Mexican cuisine has something to delight everyone. The melding of cultures contributed significantly to the melding of foods and food preparation in Mexico, often referred to as mestizaje, or 'mixing'.

With corn, beans and rice as its staples and an array of fruits and vegetables such as tomatoes, squash, sweet potatoes, avocado, coconut, pineapple and papaya incorporated for colour and goodness, Mexican cuisine also has that extra zing, epitomized by cinnamon, clove, anise, cumin, cilantro, lime, thyme and marjoram.

This month, you can savour the burritos, guacamole, ceviches, tacos, salsa, tortillas, tamales, gorditas and other dishes on offer as The Dining Room at Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo goes Mexican mad from 15-23 January! The Dining Room is open from 7-11 pm and this is one treat you should not miss! For reservations or inquiries you can contact call 2491930.

Fresh fruit explosion

Fresh Juices

Café 64 the Pastry Shop and Garden Terrance of the Galadari Hotel, one of the most popular outlets of the hotel for its savouries, cakes, lunch and dinner time specialties now offers Fresh Juices.

With the health concourse in mind Café 64 offers a variety of fresh juices from Mango, Avocado, Orange, Papaya, Pineapple, Woodapple, and Apple. Pear, Watermelon, Passion, Cantaloupe. The fresh juices are made to order and are available throughout. Café 64 is open daily from 7.00am to 11.00pm





