Online edition of Daily News - Lakehouse NewspapersWith the global crisis around us it is high time to think innovatively to take the industry forward, Crown Security Service Managing Director Ajith Kangaraarachchi said this at the launch of the Crown Sniffer Dog Project last week. Crown Security Service, a leading security service provider in the country launched the Sniffer Dog project as a value addition service to its clients. Kangaraarachchi said that during the past only the security forces and the police had sniffer dogs for the purpose of identifying various threats and suspects in public places and this was the first time that a private security company has been given approval to provide this service. He said that with the present security situation in the country the security forces cannot cope with the work load and they cannot provide this service to the private sector. Identifying this need and considering the requests of its clients the company has launched this as a pilot project. Although new to Sri Lanka the sniffer dog service is common and popular in countries such as USA, Japan, India and UK. Because only the dog's nose is capable of detecting explosives and drugs than any other electronic or mechanical device, he said. The company has trained Labrador Retrievers, a high breed category for this purpose and they have been well trained by highly qualified ex Air Force and Police dog handlers who have long-standing experience in the field. According to history, dogs of this breed went hunting and fishing to feed their masters in the past. They are very healthy, strong and very obedient to their handlers. Kangaraarachchi said that the job of these dogs is to identify any suspected items such as parcel bombs and bags. They can search any location such as warehouses, container yards, vehicles or roads, buildings for any explosives. The company is only helping to detect threats and inform the relevant authorities for further action. Asked whether this project will be profitable, the Managing Director said that it is mainly a value added service for their clients and they hope it will be a profitable venture in the future although the initial investment is high. Depending on the success of this pilot project, he hoped to expand it further. The company has invested over one hundred thousand rupees on this project so far.



