Market gains as investors react to military victories

Market kicked off year 2009 witnessing sharp gains in the back of the news reports on capturing the LTTE stronghold Kilinochchi by military forces, leading to a 5% gain in the ASPI on Friday.

The ASPI (All Share Price Index) ended the week up by 4.8% or 72.4 points to close at 1578.5 points while the sensitive MPI (Milanka Price Index) gained 3.0% or 48.6 points to stand at 1696.8 points compared to last week.

Ceylinco Insurance (CINS) with the help of few big deals during the week managed to become the week's largest contributor. Total contribution by the counter amounted to Rs.108.0 million after having traded 0.6 million shares

within a wide price range of Rs.150 and Rs.200 per share for the week. CINS share closed at Rs.199.75 for the week, gaining a notable 9.3% WoW.

The majority portion of CINS turnover occurred on Wednesday.

Following closely in terms of activity was the blue chip JKH with a turnover of Rs.98.8 million generated through a trade volume of 2 million shares. The counter during the week saw few big trades going through making it the highest traded stock for the week. The high cap share, which fluctuated within the price band of Rs.48.25 & Rs.52.00 per share, slipped 1.9% WoW to close at Rs.51 per share.

The week also saw some significant quantities of Distilleries stock trading adding Rs.40.5 million to the weekly turnover with a trade volume of 0.8 million shares. Share price of Distilleries gained 4.3% to close at Rs.54.50 per share for the week.

Environmental resources' contribution to the weekly turnover stood at Rs.17.8 million, whilst 0.9 million of its shares changed hands during the week. The stock having traded within a broad price band of Rs.14.75 and

Rs.22.25 per share closed the week up by a staggering 29.2% to close at Rs.21 per share. Bulk of the counter's turnover came on Wednesday's trading.

Market turnover for the week rose to Rs.451.7 million from Rs.160.1 million recorded last week experiencing a significant 182.1% increase while the average daily turnover stood at Rs.112.9 million, up by 111.6% during the four day trading week. Although trading volumes picked up from last week market lacked the participation of retail investors.

The week saw foreign investors becoming net buyers amounting to Rs.23.4 million, with foreign purchases standing at Rs.115.9 million (down 2.8%) and foreign sales at Rs.92.5 million (up 1645.3%). Foreign participation for the week stood at 23.1% of total activity.

The most actively traded stocks during the week were JKH, Seylan Bank (Non Voting), Vallibel and Ceylinco Seylan.

Point of view

Positive sentiment likely to continue

The market sentiment got a boost with the dawn of 2009 as government announced more military victories in the North. Week on Week (WoW) market picked up by 72.4 points compared to previous week's closing levels.

The market reacted positively towards government's efforts to liberate terrorist held areas in the North over the last week. However in our opinion restoring democracy in the North as it was done in the East would be vital in order to boost investor confidence and to reap benefits for the broader economy.

Furthermore we highlight the importance of finding a political solution to the problem while combating terrorism by military means. In the week ahead we expect the sentiment to remain positive with volatility expected on indices.

"This information has been compiled from sources that we believe to be reliable but we do not hold ourselves responsible for its completeness or accuracy. No matter published herein create any liability of any kind of HNB

Stockbrokers (Private) Limited or its associates. All opinions views

findings and conclusions included in this report constitute our judgment of

this date and are subject to change without notice.

`"HNB Stockbrokers (Private) Limited has the sole copyright for this report and the information and views contained cannot be reproduced or quoted in part or whole in any form whatsoever without the written permission from HNB Stockbrokers (Private) Limited. If anyone does such reproduction or quotation that person will be violating our legal rights and liable for the legal consequences therefore"





