Frightened of bird flu-why?

Dr. N.K. ASHUBODA

Why are we frightened when it comes to Bird flu? In a pandemic situation it could cause a lot of deaths. A pandemic is major outbreak of a disease all over the world.

Bird flu infact is caused by a virus like the virus causing common cold. Bird flu also known as avian flu belongs to the family viridiae (virus) of the Influenza type A virus. Under strange circumstances this virus is known to cross the species barrier from birds to humans.

This virus can not only change the species but can merge with a pig virus to create a new virus. This new strain can easily be transmissible amongst humans. It could be like a chemical (biological) war fare.

Bird flu or as usually known as avian influenza is common amongst birds specially ducks, waterfowls, chicken and other migratory birds. People with this viral syndrome develop symptoms such as high fever, tiredness and sore throat. Clinically it is like any other influenzae out break.

History

The first major out break of bird flu known as Influenzae A, H5NI was reported from Hong Kong in 1997. This is a new disease just spanning over less than a decade. In this out break, 18 people were infected of which 6 died. Pandemic situation was averted by killing of chicken (poultry).

In Hong Kong they killed hundreds of birds, estimated to be around 1.5 million chicken. Imagine what it would do to the Sri Lanka situation and our economy.

This disease re-emerged in December 2003 in East Asia. So far in that part of the world, there are 112 proven cases with 57 deaths.

Aetiology

Of the 15 strains of avian influenza, HENS strain is of particular importance. It mutates rapidly, crosses species barrier and merges with other viruses to infect other mammals.

Infact humans can act as culture media where mixing of viruses can occur. This mixed new strain can easily transmit from person to person.

Outcome

Avian influenza is highly infectious and a contagious disease. In epidemics, death rate is high as 100%. Birds are mainly affected and some birds being migratory in nature can easily cross borders. The "koha" which comes during the New Year season to Sri Lanka is a migratory bird coming all the way from South Africa.

Birds that are infected can excrete the viruses for at least a week to 10 days orally and in their excreta. Hence spread is faster in fenced and congested areas such as poultry farms, zoos, etc., where the bird population is high.

In Humans

After an incubation period of 2 to 5 days, high fever develops with shortness of breath and sore throat. At times the shortness of breath may develop to acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) which in turn may lead either way to pneumonia.

Death may be pronounced in the paediatric and geriatric age groups. Elderly patients with pre-existing chronic diseases are more vulnerable and there is high death rate amongst them.

The cost of this injection is in the range of Rs. 20,000 to Rs. 35,000. The doctors at the Rabies Clinics always insist that the ARV should be given forgetting the ever changing protocols recommended. If advised otherwise and the patient is found to have been infected later, the doctor may have to face an inquiry thereby risking his career.

It is high time the authorities took prompt action to make the society aware of regulations applicable if any, in relation to dog bites. If regulations are not prevalent at present, immediate action should be taken to install them as I stated before. Should it not be the concern, if not a fundamental obligation of the Government, to intervene and safeguard the interests of the General public ?

Over to you, the Authorities Concerned.

Paracetamol poisoning on the increase in Lanka

Prof. Ravindra FERNANDO

Paracetamol poisoning due to over dosing is on the increase in Sri Lanka and it appears whether in some cases people take this easily available pain killer in over doses to commit suicide.

Prof. Ravindra Fernando head of the National Poisons Information Centre at the National Hospital, Colombo made this observation in presenting a paper on paracetamol poisoning in Sri Lanka at the Asia Pacific Association of Clinical Toxicology held in Bangkok last month.

Prof. Fernando said retrospective analysis of Bed Head Tickets (BHT) at the National Hospital from 2003-2005 showed that there were 1,476 patients admitted to the hospital with poisoning, of this 845 cases were due to ingestion of paracetamol either alone or with another drug. Seventy one per cent of them were in the age group 11-30 years.

Only one patient of them died perhaps due to delayed treatment. 585 patients were discharged, 46 left the hospital against medical advice and 97 had been transferred back to the hospitals from where they were sent.

High suicide rate

Prof. Fernando said Sri Lanka has a high suicide rate, mainly due to acute poisoning with pesticides.

In the last few years paracetamol poisoning has shown a marked increase in city hospitals, and paracetamol, which is available in several brand names is the commonest pain killer used in Sri Lanka and in many other countries.

Problems in hospitals

Pointing out the reasons, doctors face in some of the problems in treating these patients, he observed.

"As there are no tests available in some of the State hospitals to detect blood paracetamol levels, patients are treated without knowing the severity of poisoning in many instances.

Cost of management

The cost of management of these patients which is around Rs. 40,000 to Rs. 50,000 each and the socio-economic costs of poisoning in general is a burden to the health services and the country.

SLMA draft on the national health policy

Prof. W.A. Ferdinand writing the editorial on the IMPA newsletter on the SLMA draft on the national health policy which was carried in the Daily News of January 18 says.

"We congratulate the SLMA for undertaking this very patriotic task and we promise to give maximum support to ensure that a national health policy based on this framework will evolve and be implemented.

'We appeal to all IMPA members all over the country to use whatever influence they may have on their politician friends and persuade them to give their support to this great effort being made by the doctors in this country under the SLMA umbrella.

Can't sleep?

Put away your cell phone, Swedish research shows:

Chatting on a mobile phone before bedtime makes for more restless nights, a Swedish researcher who headed up a study on the subject cautioned on Monday.

"If you feel you have trouble sleeping, you should think about not talking on a mobile phone right before you go to bed," said Bengt Arnetz, a professor of social medicine and stress research at Uppsala University, north of Stockholm.

Arnetz, who spoke to AFP in a telephone interview from the United States, said he and a team of researchers from Sweden's Karolinska Institute and Wayne State University in Michigan had found that mobile phone radiation appeared to cause insomnia, headaches and concentration difficulties.

Over a period of 18 months, the scientists studied 35 men and 36 women between the ages of 18 and 45, intermittently exposing some to 884 MHz wireless signals, the equivalent of the radiation received when talking on a cell phone.

Others meanwhile were placed in the same conditions but received only sham exposure.

"The ones who were exposed reported headaches, it took longer for them to fall asleep and they did not sleep as well through the night," Arnetz said, claiming his was the largest study so far on the subject.

"We had enormous amounts of data," he said, adding that further study was needed to determine how exactly the radiation was upsetting sleep patterns. AFP

A concerned citizen writes

I enjoy your articles weekly in the Daily News. One subject that I think would be an excellent subject is the trash burning they do here in the whole country.

Just in Colombo itself its like a constant burning which of course does not help the air at all. The people that burn they don't seem to be immediately affected as the wind drifts it off to the general public that had to put up with it and breath it. I have been visiting your country over 30 years and can see the general deterioration of the public and I am sure you cannot disagree with me.

You are now saying why don't I go back where I came from. Where I came from was having there problems years ago but laws were made and enforced! I am sure you have the laws but if the general public are not aware of the situation it will get worse.

I know this is just a little matter to most in the places where it could be enforced but an article, a few posters, leaflets to the shanty areas especially and to the schoolchildren they are the future of Sri Lanka whichever way it goes.

I feel this is a very important health issue and if you could address it at some time in all papers English Sinhalese and Tamil it might start a few thinking about the problem.





