Rebut agreement with TNA

Philip FERNANDO

"Sri Lankan Patriots" (SLP), the prominent community activist organization in the US, whose members have been confronting the LTTE and separatist campaigns for decades, has called on Presidential Candidate Retd. General Sarath Fonseka to publicize his denials regarding a pact with the LTTE-backed Tamil National Alliance (TNA) in Tamil language media, in the Tamil-speaking electorates. The Los Angeles based group also expressed concern that the former Army Commander had betrayed the nation's trust in his interview with the Sunday Leader. "Quoting hearsay, the former Army Commander betrayed the nation's trust when he accused the Defence Secretary of ordering the killing of surrendering LTTE cadres. While it may be too late to undo the impact of the accusations made against the Defence Secretary and the soldiers of the 58th Brigade, we believe that Fonseka could clear up the claims of the TNA deal by making these rebuttals in the Northern electorates." Following is the full text of the statement of the Sri Lanka Patriots:.

We, the members of Sri Lankan Patriots, an organization that has been in the forefront of the anti-LTTE campaign, have closely monitored the progress of the presidential election in Sri Lanka and are totally shocked at the turn of events that threaten the very sovereignty and stability of our Motherland.

The nation's prime goal, having defeated the deadliest terror outfit in the world, is to consolidate on the gains achieved. The Presidential campaigns have negated such ambitions through a race to win support of the minority vote bank.

It is common knowledge that the terrorist outfit, the LTTE, was justifying its terror and relentless drive for a separate Tamil state by hiding behind wild and unsubstantiated accusations of 'discrimination', mythical claims to a traditional homeland, and presentation of itself as the sole representative of the Tamil people. This propaganda machine was, in turn, cleverly fuelled by unscrupulous western interests whose aim was to keep Sri Lanka destabilized, under various guises.

The extent of the diabolical international crusade against this tiny country, struggling to free itself from the clutches of the world's most brutal terrorist group, became clear at the end stages of the war. The Government's humanitarian effort, led by our Armed Forces, of liberating close upon 300,000 Tamil civilians from the LTTE terrorists, was discounted and denigrated by the western nations as an open attack on civilians. They concocted charges of 'concentration camps' and 'genocide.' Thankfully, the Government, with the help of a few staunch allies, stood firm against this international conspiracy.

It is, therefore, alarming that Presidential candidate Fonseka has legitimized the international plot by attempting to give veracity to such claims. Quoting hearsay, the former Army Commander, betrayed the nation's trust when he accused the Defence Secretary of ordering the killing of surrendering LTTE cadres.

Further, Fonseka is reported to have made promises to the Tamil National Alliance (TNA) that jeopardize the sovereignty of Sri Lanka and nullify the gains so valiantly achieved by our heroic Armed Forces through, astute political leadership.

The TNA is a LTTE proxy group that has to date never rejected the call for a separate state, nor condemned the brutal violence the Tigers imposed on the Tamil community.

The TNA has also openly declared that it has an agreement with Fonseka to merge the Northern and the Eastern provinces, release around 10,000 LTTE cadres (unless charges are filed under an impossible time frame of one month) and a host of other promises that will hasten the demise of the stability and unity gained by the defeat of the LTTE.

Candidate Fonseka and his supporters are denying the TNA's claims of an agreement. They attribute the sudden TNA support for Fonseka's candidacy to "Trust" that the TNA has in him.

While it may be too late to undo the impact of the accusations made against the Defence Secretary and the soldiers of the 58th Brigade, we believe that Fonseka could clear up the claims of the TNA deal by making these rebuttals in the Northern electorates. He should have the rebuttals published in all Tamil language newspapers, making it clear that the TNA support for him is based on simple 'Trust' and that there is no deal.

In addition to ensuring transparency, this will help put our minds at ease that no matter what the outcome of the January 26 election, Sri Lanka will remain a unitary sovereign State free of the stranglehold of the LTTE and its proxies.

SLP drew President Rajapaksa's attention to Government waste and corruption more than two years ago by presenting a petition to him during his visit to Los Angeles in September 2007.

At that time, President Rajapaksa stated he would turn his attention to ending corruption after taking care of the war.

We wish to remind President Rajapaksa that the time has come to make good on that promise.





