Need to attract domestic savings stressed

To minimize dependency on foreign investments:

Sri Lanka needs to have a mechanism to attract domestic savings to carry out development activities and generate necessary funds within the country. Steps enhance the level of domestic and national savings will minimize dependency on foreign investments, Wealth Trust Corporation Executive Director Mangala Boyagoda told Daily News Business.

Private sector set to recover in 2010

The private sector is expected to make a substantial recovery in 2010 and the major source of the expansion of net domestic assets (NDA) will be the increase in credit to the private sector, Central Bank Governor Ajith Nivad Cabraal said.

Investors upbeat on Jaffna

Infrastructure development on fast pace:

The Biz Pact Investment Forum - Jaffna, organized by the Business for Peace Alliance (BPA) was a welcome effort to the business community in Jaffna and business giants in Colombo to show potential sectors in the North with the dawn of peace.





Chasing a mirage

Both the UNP and the JVP, said even prior to nomination that their main objective at the Presidential election is the abolition of the Executive Presidency. The UNP elaborated it by saying that in the new dispensation after their victory there will be an executive Prime Minister instead of an executive President. The JVP has boasted on several occasions that the abolition of the executive Presidency has been their main slogan at several elections and that the main purpose of their search for a non-party common candidate is for the purpose of abolishing the executive Presidency.

Several questions arise from the above premise. What is the method that will be used to abolish the executive? Will it be done by ways and means given in the existing Constitution? Or will it be done by bypassing the existing Constitution? The last option would mean a coup d'état. Much more down to earth question would be could the executive President abolish the post.

According to the provisions in the present Constitution such abolition would require a two-thirds majority in Parliament and people's approval at a referendum. This is beyond the reach of the executive President. It is the Parliament as the legislative authority that could abolish it following the procedure laid down in the Constitution. Hence, the talk of abolishing the executive presidency on the result of the current election is plain nonsense. It is an attempt to mislead the voters.

It is the UNP that introduced the executive Presidency. J. R. Jayewardene who received a five-sixths majority in Parliament in 1977 introduced it in the hope that no single party would get a two-thirds majority under the deformed proportional representation system he had introduced in it. In fact, he did so without any public approval. Neither was a referendum held nor was a proposal for changing the Constitution placed before the people at the General Election in 1977. There was also no public debate on the constitutional reform. It was an undemocratic autocratic act. Moreover the proposal of the PA Government in 2000 was also sabotaged by the UNP by burning copies of the draft new constitution and outvoting the Government.

The JVP, it must be admitted bargained for the abolition of the executive presidency with candidates at several elections. In fact they even got written assurances and even deadlines from the candidates. However, every time they were taken for a ride. This time they do not have even a piece of paper where the pledge is given. Is it naive to take the word of a political novice? Well, the people are not so naive to believe them and their so-called common candidate.

On the other hand, let us ponder on what the candidate himself has said. At the beginning of the campaign he said he would abolish the executive presidency. He even gave a two month deadline. Next, he corrected himself by saying that he would not like to be a ceremonial President such as William Gopallawa. That means he wanted to retain the executive power. Now during the latter half of the campaign he does not speak of abolishing the executive presidency. May be his abysmal experience in politics these days would have convinced him to retain it.

Meanwhile, the former Chief Justice, a strong adjutant of the retired General has clearly stated that the executive President cannot abolish it. He has told the media that the question of abolishing it does not arise and the problem is to reduce his powers.

What is evident is that the NDF candidate has lost his enthusiasm for abolishing the executive presidency. On the other hand, President Mahinda Rajapaksa has clearly stated in his new Manifesto that the executive President will be made answerable to Parliament. Clearly he is the only person with a personal interest in abolishing or reforming the executive Presidency since he would be entering the office for the second time after victory at the election.

Those running after the NDF candidate expecting the abolition of the executive presidency are just chasing a mirage.

Nation's stability again in peril!

As the cat jumps out of the bag:

As the cat jumps out of the bag By Special Correspondent Sri Lanka has spent almost 30 out of 60 years of her independence in a turmoil that brought horrendous sufferings to her people.

Rajapaksa deserves to win

Politics can indeed make bedfellows of sworn enemies. Nothing else explains the Tamil National Alliance, whose proximity to the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam was no secret when V Prabhakaran was leading his murderous campaign for a separate Tamil homeland,





