Quick Look

President on Channel Eye tonight

President Mahinda Rajapaksa will address the voters tonight on Channel Eye from 8.30 to 9 p.m. He is expected to explain his manifesto Mahinda Chintana Idiri Dekma and outline his program for the Second term in office.

Don't be misled, says Central Bank

The Central Bank of Sri Lanka has received information about various efforts to mislead the public about the security features of the Rs. 1,000 note issued to commemorate ushering of peace and prosperity to Sri Lanka.

The Central Bank has educated the public earlier through print and electronic media about the security features of this note. It contains all security features that are included in other circulation notes. The public is requested not to be misled by the false information that undermines the security features of this note.

Payment of 20 percent bonus interest to senior citizens

The Government will pay a 20 percent bonus interest to senior citizens on rupee deposits maintained in licensed banks.

This is effective from January 1, 2010.

All Sri Lankan citizens above the age of 60 are eligible to receive the bonus interest on their rupee savings and fixed deposits held in licensed banks.

Bonus interest shall be equal to 20 percent of the interest that accrues after 1.1.2010 on rupee deposit accounts of senior citizens, subject to a limit of Rs. 120,000 per annum, per person.

The operating instructions to licensed banks have been issued.

BASL Secretary elected uncontested

Sarath MALALASEKERA

Newly elected Secretary of the BASL Mahinda Bandula Kalehe Lokuge.

Senior Attorney at law Mahinda Bandula Kalehe Lokuge was elected uncontested for the Post of Secretary of the Bar Association of Sri Lanka (BASL).

Solicitor General President's Counsel Priyasad Dep, the returning officer who accepted the nomination papers for the BASL elections yesterday declared that Senior Attorney Lokuge was duly elected to the post of Secretary of the Bar Association for 2010.

New BASL Secretary Lokuge an old boy of St. Aloysius College, Galle is an active practioner during the last 21 years. He has been an active member and a Delegate of the Bar Association. "My main vision is to uplift the standards of the Legal Profession in the country bringing maximum benefit to the membership," New BASL Secretary Lokuge said.

Scientists push 'Doomsday Clock' back a minute

Scientists pushed back the hands on the symbolic Doomsday Clock by one minute citing hopeful developments in nuclear weapons and climate change.

The symbolic clock that shows how close mankind is to self-inhalation was moved back to six minutes before midnight from five minutes on Thursday. The Bulletin of Atomic Scientists, which maintains the clock and puts an illustration of its on its cover, attributed the move to efforts by world leaders to reduce their countries' nuclear arsenals and collaborate on climate stabilization.

The group, which includes 19 Nobel laureates, said a key to the "new era of cooperation toward international affairs brought about in part by the election of (US President Barack) Obama."

Nuclear physicist Pervez Hoodbhoy at news conference held at the New York Academy of Sciences overlooking the World Trade Centre site, said there had been "a shift in world opinion" recognizing that nuclear weapons are "no longer useful to fight wars and are not effective as deterrence.

PC session

The third session of the fifth North Central Provincial Council will be inaugurated by North Central Province Governor Karunaratne Divulgane on January 20 at 9.40 a.m.

Bharatha Natya Aranjethram

The Bahartha Natya Arangethram by Inari Warangana Thanthirimalage a grade 10 - English medium student of Maliyadeva Balika Vidyalaya, Kurunegala will be held on January 17 from 6.00 p.m. at the Provincial Council Auditorium.

Water project

Matale District group corr.

A pipe borne water project was commenced in Samandawa area in Matale centralizing Samanda natural water fountain by the Central Provincial Council.

Over 500 families in the area will benefit.

Rs 8.1 million has been allocated for this.

CPC to form garbage free towns

Matale District group corr.

The Central Provincial Council will form garbage free towns in its purview to conserve the environment. In the first stage four towns have been selected in the Matale, Kandy and Nuwara Eliya districts. The project will be implemented in the Galewela, Udunuwara, Yatinuwara and Haguranketha town areas.

Dearth of rice ends

The dearth of rice in the Matale district ended with the arrival of imported rice to the market.

The Government has provided 53 metric tons of rice to Multi-Purpose Co-operative Societies in the district.

Errant driver fined

Panadura group corr

A fine of Rs. 10,000 was imposed on a person who pleaded guilty of driving a motor vehicle under influence of liquor and also without a driving licence, by Panadura Magistrate Dhammika Dissanayake. Panadura Police prosecuted.

Electricity schemes in Matale

Matale district group corr.

The Power and Energy Ministry will launch a massive electricity scheme to provide electricity for remote villages in the Matale district.

In the first stage 14 villages have been selected in Naula, Wilgamuwa, Laggala and Abangakorale divisional secretariat area. The Iranian Government is funding Rs. 160 million for this.

Regional program on lighting

Wasantha RAMANAYAKE

The first ever South Asian regional program on lighting will begin today in Beruwala.

Regional Centre for Lighting (RCL) Director Ramani Nissanka told that this is the first international program conducted for designers, architects and engineers to be conducted by RCL which is affiliated to Sri Lanka Sustainbale Energy Authority (SLSEA).

"This intensive five day hands on program would be the latest knowledge in the lighting technology," Nissanka said. She added that developed countries uses latest energy efficient lighting technologies and the cost of such program conducted in the USA could very much higher that would not be affordable by participants from the developing countries in the region.

She said around 40 local participants from south and south east Asia will participate at the workshop.

Nissanka said that the course would include the most recent findings on the LED technology which is considered one of the most efficient energy technology in lighting.

Death of Lucille Hyacinth Gunawardena

Hyacinth Gunawardena

The death has occurred of Mrs. Lucille Hyacinth Gunawardena. She is the mother of Lake House (ANCL) Company Secretary Kumudu Gunawardena. Lucille Gunawardena was the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Harry Jayawardena, Registrar of Marriages, YMBA, Borella and was a former English teacher at Buddhist Girls' School, Campbell Place, Borella.

She was married to Health Department Radiograph Superintendent Cyril Gunawardena and is the mother of Jayasrinie (USA), Dr. Sathrika (SJGH) and Kumudu Gunawardena Imbulamure (Attorney-at-Law - Company Secretary - Lake House). She is the mother-in-Law of Keerthi Abeysekera (USA), Dr. Indrakumar (Kalubowila Hospital) and Sanath Imbulamure. Funeral takes place at Borella, Kanatta on Sunday, January 17 at 4.30 pm. 378/2, Araliya Gardens, Nawala.

German Ambassador Jens Ploetner who paid a three-day visit to Jaffna using A9 road participated in the Thai Pongal Festival at the Nallur Temple in Jaffna. The Ambassador also held talks with Jaffna Mayor, Yogeswari Patgunarajah and Government Agent, K. Ganesh.





