ITB to attract over 100,000 visitors

More than 50 Sri Lankan hospitality and leisure sector companies are expected to participate in the ITB travel and tourism exhibition in Berlin, Germany.

Lankan dancers performing at the last ITB Berlin

This being one of the world's largest travel trade show, is to be held from March 5 to 9 setting new records for a number of exhibitors where 10,923 companies from 184 countries will present the latest products and services from the travel industry. The number of trade visitors will break the 100,000 barriers.

"In terms of quality and volume ITB Berlin continues to strengthen its position as the world's leading marketing platform for the travel industry.

The industry has been able to form a picture of the changes that will take place in global demand as a result of climate change:

"At the same time Berlin Exhibition Grounds were the background to an excellent level of business, providing the basis for commercial success in 2007," COO of Messe Berlin Dr. Christian G"ke said.

Each year ITB Berlin becomes an even more international event. Whereas in 2003 approximately one third of all trade visitors came to Berlin from abroad, this year they accounted for 43 per cent of the total, a further two per cent rise over the previous year.

The ITB Convention Market Trends & Innovations proved to be a major attraction, with participation up by a quarter and a total of more than 9,000 trade visitors.

On Saturday 68,419 members of the general public came in search of ideas for their next vacation, compared with the 68, 270 who attended on the Friday afternoon and the weekend at last year's ITB Berlin.

Over the five days of this trade show the halls on the Berlin Exhibition Grounds were visited by a total of 177,154 visitors.

Sun Hill expands boundaries to Mount Lavinia

Hiran H. SENEWIRATNE

Chairman Sun Hill Group Surendra Perera

Sun Hill Hotel Mount Lavinia. Pictures by Saliya Rupasinghe

Sun Hill group of Companies have invested in building a two star hotel in Mount Lavinia. The 24-room hotel with swimming pool was opened last month.

Chairman and Managing director of Sun Hill Group of Companies, Surendra Perera said they were the first single owner hotel company in Nuwara Eliya.

"We needed another City Hotel and this was the reason for us to invest on Mount Lavinia property," he said. All fittings and furniture for the Sun Hill hotel in Mount Lavinia have been imported from Italy and London. "We want to give the best for our customers," he said.

The new Sun Hill hotel in Mount Lavinia already is maintaining a high occupancy rate with the arrivals of the Bora community. "We are currently maintaining a 95 per cent occupancy," he said.

He said that they are now looking out for a property in South to market all three hotels to the European market. The Company is also planning to participate in all major international travel fairs next year.

He said that their first property in Nuwara Eliya which started with 12 rooms now have been increased to 25. The management has invested Rs. 45 million for this property.

The decision of visiting Sri Lanka of the Dawoodo Bohra Community's spiritual leader second time had increased the number of religious visitors for thirty thousand to spend 10 days in Sri Lanka. "We had eighteen thousand visitors last time," he said.

The industry had achieved twenty per cent growth in the last few months of 2007. "Despite the conflicts in a section of the country, tourists have never been targeted and this is a plus point for the industry."

His second visit has once again proved that Sri Lanka is a safe destination for tourists.





