Online edition of Daily News - Lakehouse NewspapersSheikh Khalil of Bethany, who calls himself the head of Bedouin tribes in Palestine well known to the diplomatic circle, is an indefatigable crusader. This English speaking Bedouin leader had been a teacher in the past and now his mission is to place the grievances of his tribe before the state authorities and the international community and call for help. The Bedouin population in Palestine is estimated around 50,000 at present but in view of the nomadic nature a proper census can not been taken. Historically Bedouins are a part of the Arab community mainly found in the Middle Eastern deserts spread over a vast region. This group coming under indigenous category of people is essentially Muslim and vast majority are Sunni Muslims. In the past they frequented the deserts of Saudi Arabia, Jordan and many such countries in the Middle East. As it is well known this nomadic tribe too moved from place to place with their sheep and camel in search of pasture and water for the animals. However with the political developments that took place from the first part of the 20th century the nomadic nature of the Bedouins came to a stand still. They were compelled to restrict their movements with the advent of Jews from various part of the world to settle down in Palestine. This includes Jordan Valley as well. It became obvious that if they move out of the locality their land would be confiscated for the settlement of Jews. As a result of this situation Bedouins in Palestine are now confined to East of Ramallah, Jordan Valley, East of Nablus, and East of Hebron and the vicinity of Bethlehem. While majority continued with the traditional way of living a fair member got absorbed into the urban society. Some of those still in the camps enjoy modern facilities while the children attend schools run by UNRWA. The Bedouins of Palestine it is obvious that they are a neglected and a marginalized lot. In the first place the international community has failed to consolidate their right to live in the ancestral land that they have been gradually loosing for settlement expansion of Israel. Since 90% of the Bedouins are now engaged in agriculture and the rest lead a pastoral life land is vital for their existence and livelihood. These threats and limitations have compelled 77% of Bedouins to depend on UNRWA relief cards but access to this relief is difficult as the distribution centers are in the cities. High cost and lack of transport prevent Bedouin children enjoying the educational facilities available to other Palestinian children. They need schools close to camps. There had been instances where bright Bedouin students had been discouraged from going in for higher education. It was also unfortunate to note that Sheik Khalil was unaware that Bedouins being an indigenous community enjoy recognition by UN. It was news for him to know that 9th August in the International Day of the world's Indigenous people as declared by UN resolution 49/214 of 23rd Dec. 1994. It is also strange to find that there is no NGO to spouse the cause of the Bedouins. Is it that the Palestinian community in general looks down upon the Bedouin community? However it is the responsibility of the Arab governments to look after the interests of this community and treat them as equals. Sheik Khalil took the time to state the needs of his community. a) Consolidation of the right to land they live. b) Need for subsidies in forage specially barely and oat. d) Need for veterinary assistance with mobile services. f) Other basic amenities like water, electricity and medical care. Sheik Khalil was grateful to the Palestinian National Authority for helping his community but much need to be done. He is also grateful to a number of foreign diplomatic missions in Palestine for helping him with much needed water tanks and a few other needs. Finally it is a fact that the Bedouin community in Palestine is a neglected lot. It is also a surprise to see as to why there is no NGO to look after the interests of this community that is fighting for survival. A few English speaking Bedouin leaders like Sheik Khalil do not mean that they are affluent. Let us take a drive towards Jericho from Jerusalem or Ramallah and see for ourselves the living conditions of this community. Their torn canvas shacks are an insult to the modern society. It is true that there are some misconceptions about the Bedouin community but the fact remains that they are suffering more than other members of the Palestinian society.



