The Stupendous Stupa!

Lionel WIJESIRI

Among the oldest of architectural forms, the Stupa is a familiar sight in all countries where Buddhism has flourished. It is very much common across the Indian subcontinent and Far East Asia, and now increasingly in the Western World.

Golden Pagodain Burma

Stupas are known in many different names in Asian countries. For example, Chedi in Thailand; Candi in Malayasia and Indonesia, Zedi in Mynamar, Chorten in Bhutan and Tibet, to in Japan, to in China and Dagaba or Chaitya in Sri Lanka.

The stupa is one of the most ancient icons of Buddhist art. It is also the most prevalent form of Buddhist architecture.

More than just being examples of art and architecture, these holy monuments were designed with deep symbolism and sacred geometry. Filled with Buddhist relics, and other holy objects, it is believed that stupas emanate blessings and peace.

Nobody has yet answered the question regarding the earliest origin of Stupas. There are various theories that the origin of the Stupa was as a stake placed in the ground around which a tethered animal would walk in circles; or as a hill inside which a jar containing the ashes of a dead hero was placed. In their early history, Stupas were used as reliquaries or as graves - similar to the pyramids of Egypt.

By 500 BC., symbolic aspects of the stupa had developed so strongly that they completely changed its meaning as a grave or reliquary. Stupas became a multi-purpose symbol, a real treasure of knowledge about phenomena, the universe, the nature of our mind and the way leading to the state of full development or enlightenment.

8th century Borobudur monument in Java

Through its form, and through the 'jewels' which are placed inside of it, a stupa was believed to be working with us on many different conscious and subconscious levels. "After all", Professor Vinod Sen - the renowned historian says, "stupas are energy generators and transformers. They take energy from nature and focus and redistribute it. That is why, Stupas have great protective power. Being filled with positive energy, they pacify and transform sources of negative power."

Meaning

The architecture of the stupa is said to reflect the five elements of earth, air, fire, water, and space. Its plinth represents earth, its main dome water, a spire symbolizes fire, a crescent represents air, and a sun disc represents space.

Geometry, such as base rings, number of sides to an enclosure, or other repeated elements, can refer to the Buddha's teachings.

For example, three base rings to a stupa refer to the Three Refuges, a four-sided space might mean the Four Noble Truths, and eight will refer to the Eightfold Path as well as fire, spires also symbolise enlightenment.

After the passing away of the Buddha, his remains were cremated and the ashes divided and buried under eight stupas with two further stupas encasing the urn and the embers. Little is known about these early stupas, particularly since it has not been possible to identify the original 10 monuments.

Ruwanweliseya

In third century BC, after his conversion to Buddhism, the emperor Ashoka had the original stupas opened and the remains distributed among the several thousand stupas he had built.

Accordingly, the importance of a stupa changed from being a funerary monument to being an object of veneration. As a consequence their appearance changed also. They evolved into large hemispherical mounds with many varied features.

Remarkable stupas

The recorded tallest ancient stupa is the Phra Pathom Chedi in Nakhon Pathom, Thailand, with a height of 127 metres. The name Phra Pathom Chedi means Holy stupa of the beginning. It was built in the style of the great stupa at Sanchi and is considered sacred since it contains some relics of the Buddha.

This is indeed a very special chedi for the rulers of Thailand, since it has been the royal tradition the reigning monarch must offer candles and joss sticks whenever passing Phra Pathom Chedi.

However, the most elaborate stupa is the 8th century Borobudur monument in Java, Indonesia. The Borobudur stupa is a massive, symmetrical monument, 200 square meters in size, sitting upon a low sculptured hill. The monument represents a Buddhist cosmological model of the universe.

Pha That Luang (Great Stupa in Laos)

Starting at the eastern gateway, pilgrims go around the stupa, always in a clockwise direction. Walking through nearly five kilometres of open air corridors while ascending through six square terraces and three circular ones, the pilgrim symbolically spirals upward from the everyday world to the "nirvanic state of absolute nothingness".

The first six terraces are filled with richly decorated relief panels in which the sculptors have carved a textbook of Buddhist doctrines and a fascinating panorama of 9th century Javanese life. Upon the upper three terraces are 72 small stupas, each containing a statue of the Buddha.

The Shwedagon Pagoda also known as the Golden Pagoda is a 98-metre gilded stupa located in Yangon, Burma. It is the most sacred Buddhist pagoda for the Burmese with relics of the Buddha enshrined within, namely, eight hairs of Gautama Buddha.

The legend says that two merchant brothers, Taphussa and Bhallika met the Lord Gautama Buddha and receive eight of the Buddha's hairs to be enshrined in Burma.

The two brothers made their way to Burma and with the help of the local king, King Ukkalapa, built a Stupa and enshrined them. The Gold seen on the stupa is made of genuine gold plates, covering the brick structure.

Pha That Luang (Great Stupa in Laos) is a Buddhist temple in Vientiane, Laos. It holds a special meaning in Laos since it has come to be the symbol of the Lao nation. Imposing at 44m in height, the stupa resembles a lotus flower, rises in three levels and culminates in a golden spike representing an elongated lotus bud.

This specific stupa is remarkable not only for its size, but for its golden splendour which is the result of the gold used to cover it. Legend states that a piece of Buddha's breastbone was enclosed here in the 3rd century BC by Asokan missionaries.

In Sri Lanka, we can proudly talk about dozens of elegant stupas. Ruwanweliseya, or the "Great Stupa", is regarded as the most important one. It was built by King Dutugemunu and has a height of 95 metres.

Phra Pathom Chedi in Thailand

The stupa, decorated by coral brought from the Mediterranean by an envoy of the Sri Lankan king who had an audience with the Roman Emperor Caesar Augustus, was restored by successive rulers.

The stupa is surrounded by an elephant wall. This design has been repeated in Thailand, Burma, and other countries where Buddhism was taught by monks from Sri Lanka.

The Ruwanweliseya is surrounded by a wall embellished with full-size sculpted elephants. The walls are symbolic of mythology that they hold up the earth. Four gatehouses punctuated the elephant wall at the four cardinal points.

The quotation below by Lama Govinda, the great expositor of Tibetan Buddhism, will give us an understanding why stupas were built and what they signify now and in former times.

"It is through the language of classic symbols that we reconnect ourselves with the ancient ground from which all human culture has sprung... In the stupa we find the ancient reliquary monuments once built for kings and heroes transformed into profound expressions of knowledge.

Rightly interpreted and understood by both reason and intuition, it mirrors the harmony and perfection of universal principles and invites the human mind to awaken its full capabilities."





