IMSL Lecture

The first lecture of the series organised by the Institute of Management of Sri Lanka (IMSL) will be held on January 22 at the SLFI Auditorium, Colombo on 'People, Power, and Politics: Issues that Make or Break Projects'.

The lecture will be delivered by Nayana Mawilmada. Registration is free.

Public Lecture

Professor Nihal Karunaratne will deliver a public lecture on 'Lightning and Surge Protection for IT and Communication Equipment' at the Institution of Engineers, Sri Lanka (IESL), 120/15, Wijerama Mawatha, Colombo 7 on January 26.

The every day life of the modern human, be it home or office is full of electronic systems that are based on submicron transistor based integrated circuits that could be easily damaged by transient surges such as lightning, power surges or similar occurrences.

Professor Karunaratne will present an overview of surge protection in the end user perspective which will provide a practical and industrial approach to surge device absorption systems for power entry as well as signal interfaces. Surge absorbent families such as MOVs and semiconductor families will also be discussed in the lecture.

Tap water to New Valley

The Ambagamuwa Pradeshiya Sabha commissioned a new pipe borne water supply scheme for the factory division of the New Valley estate at Norwood in the Ambagamuwa (Ginigathena), DS division recently.

Krishnamurti talk

A recorded public talk on 'Can we together create a good society?' delivered by the late Indian philosopher J. Krishnamurti will be replayed at Anula Nursery School hall, 310, High Level Road, Colombo 6 at 9.45 a.m. on Sunday January 25. The event is organised by the Krishnamurti Centre, Sri Lanka Inc.

Blood donation

A blood donation campaign will be held today at Bodhirajarama Viharaya Dhamma hall, Pettah, Colombo.

This will be held annually to commemorate late S. Wijesinghe, pioneer of the Neelagiri Hotel Group.

Diabetes camp

A free Diabetes Camp will be held on January 25 at St. Anne's Church, Sarikkamulla, Old Galle Road, Panadura. Call 4700700 for details.

RASSL Lecture Series

The monthly lecture of the Royal Asiatic Society of Sri Lanka will be held at 5.00 pm on January 26 at the Gamini Dissanayake Auditorium of the Mahaweli Centre, No. 96, Ananda Coomaraswamy Mawatha, Colombo 7.

The title of the Lecture is 'Ola Leaf Manuscript named Nissankamalla Anusasana or the Inscriptions of Polonnaruwa' presented by Prof. Mahinda Somathilake.

Building for rural school

The building complex set up by our firm and the GTZ is the first phase of the three phase school development programme, said Manoj Gunawardena, Chief Executive Officer SriLankan Airlines and Sri Lankan Care Trust Institution.

He said so addressing a meeting at Debarawewa junior school at Tissamaharama that followed the opening of the class room complex at the school set up by SriLankan Airlines and GTZ. There are 3093 children at this school.





