New procedures for benefit of people - Minister Dinesh Gunawardena

SHIRLEY WIJESINGHE

People are reluctant to adapt new official procedures which have been introduced for the benefit of the public as well as the administrative staff, Urban Development and Sacred Area Development Minister Dinesh Gunawardana said.

"People adopt negative attitudes and criticise new procedures without appreciating it," he said.

The Minister was speaking as the chief guest of the launching ceremony of computerisation of Planning Approval Procedure of the City Planning Division of the Colombo Municipal Council (CMC) held at BMICH recently.

Gunawardana said President Mahinda Rajapaksa has taken a personal interest in promoting Information and Communication Technology to provide citizens a improved and efficient public administration.

The CMC was the first local body to introduce computerised planning approval procedure for avoiding unnecessary delays of procedures practised for the last ten decades. But the CMC has launched the procedure with the assistance of professional staff, he said.

The Minister appreciated the service of the Special Commissioner, the Municipal Commissioner and the staff of the Planning Division of the CMC on this landmark achievement by concluding this programme of Computerisation of Planning Approval Procedure at the CMC overcoming hurdles that delayed its commencement.

"It is indeed an example to be emulated not only by other local authorities but also by all statutory organisations that are involved in dealing with providing approvals and issuing permits for development activities," Minister Gunawardana said.

Western Provincial Governor Alavi Mowlana said he is very proud of this achievement.

"We need to streamline procedures like we see in this system and we have to make things simple in line with the country's development needs. I now need better performances and speedy approvals from the CMC," Mowlana said.

The Engineers' Department of the CMC consists of sub divisions of planning, road construction, building construction, traffic and transport, solid waste drainage. Therefore the function of the Planning Division becomes paramount for the smooth running of the overall department as well as the CMC.





