Comment

Sparks are bound to fly in Perth

Sparks are bound to fly when the third cricket Test between Australia and India is played on the fast WACA wicket in Perth beginning today.

From reports it looks as though both, Australia and India have put the ugly incidents that was the Second Test in Sydney behind them and have promised to play the game as it should be played.

But in the heat of the moment, things could flare up again. The scars of the incidents that took place in Sydney would however remain.

Monday when the hearing of the Brad Hogg case was to be taken up was going to be crucial. But the Indians, by withdrawing the complaint lodged against Hogg, have prepared a sporting wicket where the game could be played in the best of traditions.

In hindsight what took place in Sydney should not have been, had both teams indulged in consultation, compromise and consensus. In rushing where angles fear to tread, the teams brought disgrace and put to shame this time honoured game.

While the Hogg complaint has been buried, the Harbhajan sentence is still hanging fire and how it will end is interesting to watch.

The arrival of former Sri Lanka elegant batsman and captain Ranjan Madugalle seems to have had a soothing effect and his top class diplomacy seems to the Chief Match Referee have had the desired effect, with both captains Ricky Ponting and Anil Kumble promising that the Tests would be played in the best of spirits.

Good that cricket Australia have stood by their captain Ponting and not rushed to strip him like the International cricket Conference did to umpire Steve Bucknor. Sad on Jamaican Bucknor.

ICC should have sided with Bucknor, convinced the Indians that the decisions he made were mistakes and told Bucknor 'better umpiring in future'.

But the Board of Control for Cricket in India who came out tops, have not relaxed on the Harbhajan ban.

According to the 'Hindu', the BCCI with all its might try to 'get justice' for the beleaguered Harbhajan.

Sharad Pawar, President of the BCCI has made it clear that Harbhajan gets the best legal support when the ICC starts the hearing on the appeal against the ban imposed on the off spinner.

If required the BCCI will employ someone from abroad.

What is about to be enacted would be like a script from the Arjuna Ranatunga/ICC show, when the former skipper and now Interim Committee Chairman Ranatunga was accused and nearly put out of the game for standing up for Muttiah Muralitharan when the bowler was called by umpire Ross Emerson during a one day international in Adelaide.

In that incident the then Chairman of Sri Lanka Cricket Thilanga Sumathipala, got the best of lawyers in Australia to bat for Ranatunga and what would have escalated to into an explosive situation was defused with Ranatunga getting off with a suspended sentence.

The ICC came out second best.

Fast wicket

The WACA wicket in Perth is notorious for helping the fast bowlers and it would not be different this time round.

The captain winning the toss would certainly be wary of batting first, because it is on the first morning that the wicket would be really difficult to bat on.

In the circumstances it is likely that the Aussies would go in with a four pronged pace attack comprising Brett Lee, Michelle Johnson, Stuart Clarks and Shaun Tait.

If the home team plays the four pacemen, it would be fast bowling at its best and the Indian batsmen would be given a torrid time.

As for the Indians, they would be looking to make amends for their defeats in the previous two Tests and win the remaining two, draw the series like they did the last time they toured and go back with their heads held high.

And there is no reason why they should not succeed. Malinga Bandara out

It is a pity that leg spinner Malinga Bandara could not make the squad to Australia for the Tri-series which will also features India.

While the dropping of Bandara is sad, it is heartening to note the return of promising batsman Chamara Kapugedera.

Bandara and Kapugedera met with success when they previously toured Australia for the Tri-series which also saw South Africa with the Lankans performing pleasingly to enter the finals and lose to Australia.

Bandara would certainly have been an asset with his clever leg spin/googly bowling. As it is Sri Lanka will have only a solitary spinner in Muttiah Muralitharan.

To the credit of the selectors it must be said that they endeavour to pick the best available and the selections they have made leaves no room for comment.

The attack is pace heavy and a couple of them would only be tourists. So a leg-spinner in Bandara would have added variety.





