Rev. Bro. Alban Patrick nameboard a disgrace

To everyone passing the St. Benedict's College ground at Bloemendhal Road, Colombo 13, what struck them most was the board that announced to all and sundry the Rev. Bro. Alban Patrick Pavilion.

The nameboard that marked the Rev. Bro. Alban Patrick Pavilion is now a blank memory as the picture shows. Picture by Arumugam Maduraveeran

Now that pavilion can hold its own against the best that any school can offer. Sometime back there was a soft opening and an imposing board, the brainchild of former President of the Old Bens Sports Club Dinesh Madawela was opened by Bro. Visitor.

The nameboard looked quite imposing, and was a pride to all Benedictines.

The pavilion was built in 1958 by Bro. Alban Patrick who was the Director of the school. In the same year he also ordered the laying of turf wickets, so that the green, white and green school could join other schools that boasted turf wickets.

The laying of turf wickets was entrusted to Rasiah of the Tamil Union who was an expert at wicket making.

A. Gnanapragasam, one if not the finest Prefect of Games that the school had and the curator Rogus Perera spent many hours in the sun, seeing Rasiah complete the job. Bro. Alban too, would keep an eye.

The imposing pavilion and the turf wickets were a pride to all sportsmen, especially the cricketers of the school. The pavilion also housed the Old Benedictine Sports Club.

The year the pavilion and the wickets came into being the cricket captain was Neville Casiechetty and his brother Francis was the coach.

Speaking to Francis, who captained the school in 1948, he reminisced on the good work that Bro. Alban did for all sportsmen of the school. Incidentally Francis is the only surviving member of the champion Tamil Union team that won the P. Sara Trophy in 1951.

At a AGM of the Old Boys Union, Kenneth Dabrera, the cheer leader of the school, proposed the naming of the pavilion in honour of the great Director and Cecil Waidyaratne, the vice captain of the 1958 team and later Commander of the Army seconded the proposal.

Things did not get moving, but it is said that it is better late than never and finally to the credit of Madawela, the nameboard honouring the Director became a reality.

It was a great honour and everyone passing the ground stood and admired the board and was convinced that Bro. Alban deserved that honour.

Then the heavy rains and wind that broke out a few months back, defaced the nameboard.

One expected the authorities to immediately get moving and install a new nameboard.

But sad to say sweet nothing has been done and the board remains blank, which to say the least is dishonour to a Director who did so much for the school. When asked a committee member of the Old Benedictine Sports Club said that no one seems to be interested in installing another nameboard.

This member also said that no one seems to know as to what happened to the large portraits of Bro. Alban and the first President of the OBSC Dr. Sydney Jayawardena, that proudly hung in the club. Letting the board remain blank is great dishonour to Rev. Bro. Alban Patrick and all that he did for the school.

One hopes that what is written will be taken in the true Benedictine spirit and that the authorities would put things right, or get rid of the blank board.





