Mahamaya and Trinity - Age Group swimming champions

S.M. Jiffrey Abdeen Kandy Sport Correspondent

Mahamaya Girls College and Trinity College continued their dominance in the aquatic sports in the school arena when they swept the boards at the Fifth Age Group and Novices Swimming championship organised by the Central Province Aquatic Sports Association (CEPASA) and worked off at the Swimming Pool of the University of Peradeniya over the weekend.

The swimmers from Mahamaya Girls College who have been dominating the swimming scene for girls now over 20 years won with ease the overall championship with 635 points and their closest rival was Hillwood Girls College who had 312 points - a clear lead of 323 points. Girls High School finished third with 114 points.

Mahamaya Girls College also won the championship for Novices with 204 points pushing St. Anthony's Girls College into second position with 135 points. Little known Mawbray Girls College finished third with 132 points - just three points behind.

In the championship for boys Trinity College accumulated a whopping 855 points and in second place was Kingswood College with 222 points - a lead of 633 points. In third place was Gateway College with 60 points. This will give as to how much the Trinitians would have dominated this segment despite two of their top swimmers in Heshan Unamboowe and Chanuka Wickremasinghe being ineligible to participate in this championship as they are in the National Swimming team for the SAP Games to be held shortly in Bangladesh.

Trinity College also won the championship for Novices with 231 points closely followed by Kingswood College who had 225 points - a lead of only six points. In third place was Colombo International School with 105 points. This segment produced some close contests.

Fifteen year old Shehan de Silva who has dominated this championship since its inception once again came good by winning all four events participated by him and in the process shattered two meet records. His wins came in 200 metres free style, 200 metres Individual medley, 100 metres free style and 50 metres Dolphin. Another swimmer to sparkle was 13 year old Ayeshika Jayawardena who won all four events participated by her. Her wins came in under 14, 200 metres free style, 100 metres free style, 50 metres Dolphin and the Individual Medley. She is also a good athlete.

The results:

Novices girls: champions

Under 10: Sasandi Batathrange (Hillwood College)

Under 12: E.U.B. Chamini Ekanayake (Sangamitha GS Matale)

Under 14: Ishani Ratnayake (Hillwood College)

Under 16: G.M.D.M. Ratwatte (Sangamitha GS Matale)

Under 16: Viveks Kandawel (Mowbray Girls College)

Novices girls champions

Under 10: Gayod Edussuriya (Kingswood College)

Under 12: B.O.C. Dharmapriya (Trinity College)

Under 14: Mohammed Adran (CIS)

Under 16: Shalnka Walisundera (Kingswood College)

Under 16: Joint Champions: B.A.A. Priyankara and J.M.M.A. Senaratne (both from University of Peradeniya)





