Navy's role in decimating the LTTE

Philip FERNANDO

As Sri Lanka celebrates its 60th anniversary of independence, it is most opportune that our Navy's role in combating terrorism be given its due recognition. They proved their mettle over and over again due to their commitment and dedication.

Recent reports indicate that they fought the LTTE in a multitude of terrains under circumstances which would normally have tested even the most professional combat forces. They also engaged in humanitarian missions amidst all odds when the enemy had poisoned the hearts and minds of the beneficiaries using the most despicable tactics. They played a key role in thwarting LTTE's growing sea power just in time when the Armed Forces were making inroads into the LTTE territory.

The navy came of age and evolved into a professional fighting machine at the most opportune time as it graduated from its usual duties such as prevention of illicit immigrants and smuggling, providing assistance to civilians during national calamities and disasters and to fishermen in distress, participating in ceremonial functions. It became a highly valuable asset of the country.

Their task was huge.They were entrusted to defend a sea area seven times bigger than the land mass of Sri Lanka. Restricting the movements of the Sea Tiger vessels was no easy task.

Constant surveillance maintained at sea became their erstwhile goal. Enemy reinforcements were successfully cut off as a result of the vigilance of the naval personnel patrolling the seas off the East and the North.

They thwarted a number of sea-borne threats posed by the enemy. The efficiency of the naval fleet was maintained at a very high level to carry out this primary task while ensuring the protection of the domestic and international shipping lanes and harbours in the country.

One of their key duties was to ensure that the logistics supply went on uninterrupted. This was the vital life line for both the military and the civilian population in the North. It helped maintain uninterruptedly the sea lines of communications to the Jaffna peninsula, thus denying the LTTE a chance to achieve any superiority at sea.

This facilitated the smooth transportation of troops, passengers and essential items to the Northern peninsula.

The Navy was also engaged in the protection of the International Maritime Boundary. Due to the successful deep-sea naval operations, the Navy was able to downsize the LTTE international logistics network breaking its lifeline that gave it a military edge to boast nationally and internationally.

The Sri Lanka Navy maintained proper coordination with the Security Forces and the Police to accomplish mission objectives of the ground battles.

The Navy showed full commitment in joining Forces to fight the common enemy. According to published reports, the complete inability of any Sea Tiger boats to escape from Silawathurai and the total cutting off of LTTE reinforcements to the area were made possible due to the Navy's timely deployment of a large number of naval units and patrol craft in the seas west of Silawathurai and south and north of Mannar.

The Sri Lanka Navy made it a point to invest heavily in research and development (R&D) projects. The fighting and the operational efficiency of the Navy were improved due to the improvisation made to the existing weapons and equipment by its R&D teams.

Recent reports indicate that weapons systems of naval ships and craft were upgraded with modern sensors, larger calibre guns and other equipment.

The Navy enhanced its in-house boat building capabilities and today it manufactures many types of craft required for operational purposes. The available resources were utilised to achieve maximum productivity ensuring cost effectiveness.

This saved the country millions of dollars in foreign exchange. With the innovations in R&D sector, the Navy was able to weaken the LTTE Sea Tigers in many sea battles using the much improved fire power of the Navy's Fast Attack Craft (FACs).





