Every colour has a story to tell

Charmaine Fernando

'The whole world, as we experience it visually, comes to us through the mystic realm of color' Hans Hofmann 'The true mystery of the world is the visible, not the invisible' insists Oscar Wilde. Colour when applied is essentially flat but when assembled in a certain order, it miraculously takes shape breaking into emotion and suddenly springing to life' says a wise man who is no visionary but we can plainly see he is obviously not blind. Many colour gurus and artists have many vibrant phrases coined in honour of the miracle, colour. What famous artists say about colour

Oceans of colour in the great outdoors

"Instead of trying to reproduce exactly what I see before me, I make more arbitrary use of colour to express myself more forcefully. To express the love of two lovers by the marriage of two complementary colours.

To express the thought of a brow by the radiance of a light tone against a dark background. To express hope by some star. Someone's passion by the radiance of the setting sun" said Vincent van Gogh, 1888 in his inimitable staccato tone which ran parallel to his brush strokes. 'I sense a scream passing through nature. I painted the clouds as actual blood. The colour shrieked' pronounced Edvard Munch, on his painting The Scream.

"Colour helps to express light, not the physical phenomenon, but the only light that really exists, that in the artist's brain" exclaimed Henri Matisse,1945. Further to that in 1946 he said "Before, when I didn't know what colour to put down, I put down black. Black is a force: I depend on black to simplify the construction. Now I've given up blacks." Artist have a way of feeling one with their paints, brushes and canvas. Colour is an expression of one's mood beyond doubt.

"Colour and I are one. I am a painter" insisted Paul Klee, 1914. How well the artists blend with colour!

Hitler's black and white comments on colour

"I have observed a number of works which actually lead one to assume that certain people's eyes show them things differently from the way they really are; who perceive or as they would doubtless say 'experience' the meadows as blue, the sky as green, the clouds as sulphurous yellow, and so on. I wish to prohibit such unfortunates, who clearly suffer from defective vision, from trying to foist the products of their faulty observation on to their fellow men as though they were realities, or indeed from dishing them up as "art" said Adolf Hitler, 1937.

Obviously here was a man who did not relate to emotions like an artist; possibly because he hadn't any. Never mind Hitler. Now, he is very much a part of the history which he painted black.

Talking colour

But here was a man with a fixation for anything green. "They'll sell you thousands of greens. Veronese green and emerald green and cadmium green and any sort

Colour on the shelves

of green you like; but that particular green, never." Pablo Picasso, 1966 had his passion for colour and related intimately with green. A man who went places, made a name and sold every canvas he spit on. What a man; what colour!

We always talk colour when we exclaim our emotions and moods. 'Feeling blue, seeing red, going green are the commonest phrases in speech. These days on Colombo roads we see more red caps, green shirts and blue saris. Mixing and matching primary colours may not be fashionable unless you suffer from big matches fever where colours play it hot and cool!

Colour has its miraculous beauty and stands on its own yet people tend to claim ownership of it mixing colour with politics. Miss match eh? Artists would disagree. Never mind. None can over-power colours because the beauty of a colour is like an emotion, a feeling, of one's heart quite contrary to politics that have no heart.

Early colour studies

Some of the early studies and theories about light were done by Aristotle. He discovered that by mixing two colours, a third is produced. He did this with a yellow and blue piece of glass, which when brought together produced green. He also discovered that light travels in waves. Plato and Pythagoras also studied light.

Power of colour

During the Middle Ages, Paracelsus reintroduced the knowledge and philosophy of colour using the power of the colour rays for healing along with music and herbs. Unfortunately, the poor man was hounded throughout Europe and ridiculed for his work. Most of his manuscripts were burnt, but now he is thought of, by many, to be one of the greatest doctors and healers of his time.

Fusion of colour in print

A man, it would seem, very much ahead of his time. Not only do we now use Colour Therapy once again, but, his other ideas, using herbs and music in healing, can also be seen reflected in many of the complementary therapies now quite commonplace.

Issac Newton and the seven rays

A pioneer in the field of colour, Isaac Newton(1642 - 1727) in 1672, published his first, controversial paper on colour, and forty years later, his work 'Opticks'. Newton passed a beam of sunlight through a prism. When the light came out of the prism is was not white but was of seven different colours: Red, Orange, Yellow, Green, Blue, Indigo and Violet.

The spreading into rays was called dispersion by Newton and he called the different coloured rays the spectrum.

He learnt that when the light rays were passed again through a prism the rays turned back into white light. If only one ray was passed through the prism it would come out the same colour as it went in. Newton concluded that white light was made up of seven different coloured rays.

Modern day thinking

Indeed, the 'Ancient Egyptians' worship of the Sun may also have a place in the modern world since it may be the Sun which will fuel all our central heating systems and lighting systems etc. in the years to come as the coal and oil supplies become depleted. We are now also aware of the effect of light deprivation on a large number of people who suffer Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD) during the winter months.

Interiors adding colour to life

We are lucky that now we are all able to choose any colour we like and can buy products of any colour freely. This was not always the case.

In times gone by, the pigments used to dye fabrics violet/purple were very expensive and, therefore, only available to the wealthy. For example, the Romans in high office would wear purple robes since this, to them, indicated power, nobility and thus authority.

Black is beautiful It is also interesting to look at the different phases in history and how those phases have been reflected in the colours generally worn at those times. During times of severity and propriety the code of dress was very much dominated by black and grey.

The Victorians mainly wore black - influenced by the Queen's long period of mourning no doubt - and were, in many ways, quite austere and, it has to be said, in many ways not very colourful. The Puritans too, of course, dressed in black. This is not to say that black is a bad colour.

Every colour has its positive and negative aspects. Wearing black with another colour can enhance that other colour's energy.

Black can also give the space sometimes needed for reflection and inner searching. It can indicate inner strength and the possibility for change.

Before the last war it was noted that a lot of red was being worn.

Red in its most positive is the colour for courage, strength and pioneering spirit, all of which were much needed by the men and women who were fighting that war.

However, in the most negative aspect, it is the colour of anger, violence and brutality. As the war was coming to an end, pale blue became a popular colour - an omen of the peace to come perhaps, also giving everyone the healing they must have so badly needed.

Are you warm or cold?

It is amazing but the key to making coloured greys is including both warm and cool colours in the mixture; adding a touch of red to a blue-green mixture is the easiest, most effective way to 'break' it and render it greyish, says Anthea Callen, Yale University Press. "The craving for colour is a natural necessity just as for water and fire. Colour is a raw material indispensable to life. At every era of his existence and his history, the human being has associated colour with his joys, his actions and his pleasures", remarked Frenand Leger, "On Monumentality and Color", 1943.

Colour is a fashion statement

"Of all the colours, blue and green have the greatest emotional range. Sad reds and melancholy yellows are difficult to turn up", emphasized a colour guru, William H. Gass. Perhaps he may have been in Sri Lanka, at polls time, overwhelmed by our good old political horizon, painted green, red and blue.

Colour in healing

The use of colour in healing is not new. It has a long history, and colour therapy, as it is now called, represents the rediscovery of some of the principles and practices known since the earliest times.

Those who have never been deprived of colour tend to take it for granted, and generally don't realise its importance to health and well-being. Nevertheless, it is a basic need, which was recognised as such by our ancestors. The ancient healing traditions of many cultures reflects this awareness.

For the ancients, the colours that make up sunlight were each considered to show a different aspect of the divine, and to influence different qualities of life. Colour is therefore an important feature in the symbolism of ancient cultures throughout the world, and the origins of healing with colour in Western civilisation can be traced back to the mythology of Ancient Egypt and Greece.

Colour therapy

Ancient Egyptians and Greeks used coloured minerals, stones, crystals and dyes as remedies, and sanctuaries painted in various shades in treatment. Interest in the physical nature of colour developed in Ancient Greece alongside the concept of the elements, air, fire, water and earth. These fundamental constituents of the universe were associated with the qualities of coolness, heat, wetness and dryness, and also the four humours or bodily fluids, choler or yellow bile, blood (red), phlegm (white) and black bile.

The middle ages

Resurgence in the art of healing occurred during the Renaissance in Europe. A great exponent of alchemy, Paracelsus (1493-1541),insisted that its true purpose was not to make gold but to prepare effective medicines, and he used liquid gold to treat all kinds of ailments, apparently with good effect, and his fame as a healer spread throughout Europe. His influence continued into the seventeenth century. He regarded light and colour as essential for good health and used them extensively in treatment.

Modern colourful world

In the nineteenth century the Americans advanced a comprehensive theory of healing with colour. He identified the colour red as a stimulant, notably of blood and to a lesser extent the nerves; yellow and orange as nerve stimulants; and blue and violet as soothing to all systems, with anti-inflammatory properties.

Britain also developed extensive colour prescriptions for every conceivable ailment. They claimed that this 'potentised' water retained the energy of the vital elements within the particular colour filter used, and that it had remarkable healing power. Solar tinctures of this kind are still made and used today in healing.

Colour and the consumer

Living with colour is exciting

Colour is used extensively by the retail, marketing and packaging industries in order to convey messages and sensations or trigger associations which encourage the consumer to buy their products. The food industry utilizes the powerful connection between taste and vision in a variety of ways. Food colorants are added to ensure that the colour of the food matches our expectations, for example, butter is naturally much whiter in colour more akin to lard, and the canning process deprives the garden pea of much of its natural colouring.

Certain packaging colours are associated with particular tastes or qualities such as pink and red indicating sweetness, white and blue suggest purity and refinement while green is synonymous with mint flavoured goods, although mint ice cream is only mint coloured by virtue of food colouring. Purple, gold and black are used to indicate exclusivity, expensiveness, luxury and quality, dependent on the nature of the product.

Colour in packaging

The power of packaging to influence judgement is great. Retail selling is a complex business and probably the greatest increases in the use of packaging are to be seen in the markets for foods, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics and household products.

Packaging has to provide all the attraction and all the information necessary for the customer. Printing is a complex process with many steps before ink is placed on the substrate. The demand, then, in packaging is for high-quality colour both in line work and in illustration.

The colour of food

Why are food colorants used? The simple answer is that we have become used to our food looking a certain way and this can only be achieved by adding food colorants. Freshness and flavour are associated with bright colours, especially golden orange, green and red. Colour enhancers are added to red meat to give it the pinky redness we expect and also to inhibit bacteria. Tartrazine, a yellow dye, is added to fish batter to give it the yellow appearance we expect.

Colour is also linked to quality. Experiments have shown that changing the colour of an inferior orange juice to match that of a higher quality juice increases its rating in taste preference tests.

Colour in cosmetics

As long ago as 3000 BC, aristocratic Egyptian ladies used complex and ornate make-up such as black eyebrows and lashes, blue eye-shadow, red lips and nails. However, attempts made to sell the 'Cleopatra look' in make-up failed in recent times because the over-all effect on the face was too gaudy by contemporary standards. The urge to decorate and adorn ourselves is one of the most fundamental instincts in human nature.

The idea that make-up was first used in the twentieth century is wrong, although it is true that only comparatively recently has the use of make-up by women become almost universal, resulting in the development of a modem industry to mass-produce the articles. Colour has grown itself in to our system that no woman would go on the street without colouring from hair to toe nails despite their strata in society.

Hair has taken colour for granted and vice versa not respecting gender. Due to this development in ego and attitude, it's hard to spot a grey hair other than on those heads who have not lost it to whims and fancies.

It has come to a state where colour has become an intrinsic part of our lifestyle. The only way to find out whether we are dictated to by colour or whether colour actually moves us, is to call for a worldwide poll on colour!





