Warrants on Ex-MPCS president

He was the ex president of the Panadura MPCS and the Ex Secretary of the Panadura United National Party Balamandalaya.

He is evading a court trial against him.In this case he is charged by the Assistant Commissioner of Cooperative Development Kalutara for not paying Rs. 86,776 a loan with interest which he had obtained from the Panadura cooperative rural bank a few years ago.

The magistrate also ordered bail an Rs, 5,000 on each of the sureties who signed the bail bond of the accused last year regarding the loan.

Illicit distillery raided

Bandula Gunasekara and T. K. Ariyadasa Malimbada group corr.

The Southern Province Detective Unit raided illicit liquor manufacturing den in the reserved area of Hiyare reservoir in Galle and seized 16,800 drams of goda and 200 illicit liquor bottles with four suspects.

Buddhist talk

Prof. Raja de Alwis will deliver a public Buddhist talk in English on "An alternate position for Seated Meditation" at a meeting of the Servants of the Buddha Society on Saturday, January 17 at 4.30 p.m. at Maitri Hall, Lauries Road, Bambalapitiya.

Buddhist discussion

The next Buddhist public panel discussion of the Colombo YMBA will be on Sunday, January 18, at 10 a.m. at its Borella building on "Living without Attachment and Aversion." The panelists are Piyadasa Wattegama and Indika Perera with Rajah Kuruppu as moderator.

Re-launch of Shakthiya

The Shakthiya newspaper will be re-launched at a ceremony to be held on January 13 at 3 p.m. at the Mahaweli Centre, Colombo 7. The new website of the paper will also be launched on the same occasion. Ven. Dr. Baddegama Samitha Thera, Vasudeva Nanayakkara, Dr. Tissa Abeysekera and Minister Rajitha Senaratne are among the speakers.

AGM

The annual general meeting of the Alumni Association of the Kelaniya University (Gampaha branch) will be held at Sanasa Building Gampaha at 9.30 a.m. on January 14.

Public lecture

A public lecture on "Sea Level Variability: From Seiches to Mean Sea Level" is organised by the Institution of Engineers, Sri Lanka (IESL). The lecture will be held on Monday, January 19, at 5.15 p.m. at the IESL, 120/15, Wijerama Mawatha, Colombo 7.

Professor Charitha Pattiarachi of University of Western Australia is scheduled to deliver the lecture.

Use water sparingly, urges Board

The National Water Supply and Drainage Board (NWS&DB) has requested residents in Colombo City and the suburbs to use drinking water sparingly saying it may be compelled to restrict water supplies due to the prevailing drought and seepage of sea water to the Kelani Ganga intake area following sand mining in the river bed.

The consumption of water too had rapidly increased due to the current dry weather. People in elevated areas in Colombo and suburbs as well as in places distant from reservoir areas have already complained of low water pressure in their pipelines, the Board said.

The problem had aggravated due to the misuse of pipe-borne drinking water for washing vehicles and clothes and watering plants.

Those engaged in such activities should think that they are depriving another person of his legitimate right for drinking water facilities.

The NWS&DB in a communique issued yesterday said a heavy expenditure is borne by the State to filter and purify drinking water and supply it to the people and as such it was the duty of consumers to use water sparingly.

Fatal accidents down in Matugama

K. A. Perera Wadduwa special corr.

The number of fatal accidents in Matugama has decreased in 2008 compared with the previous year, Matugama HQI Police, Pragathi Abeysinghe said.

He said there were only eight fatal accidents in 2008, while there were 15 fatal accidents in 2007.

He said the accident rate had decreased due to the inspection of vehicles day and night and regular inspection of drivers.





