President Mahinda Rajapaksa met a group of graduates at Temple Trees yesterday. Ministers Johnston Fernando, Ranjith Siyambalapitiya and senior media personnel Jackson Anthony were also present. Here the President addressing the graduates. Picture by Nalin Hewapathirana

Three dead in weekend road mishaps

Rafik Jalaldeen

Three persons were killed during weekend road mishaps in Girandurukotte and Galewela on Sunday.

Police spokesman SSP I.M. Karunaratna said two youth were killed in a tractor and a motorcycle head on collision in the Giragolla area at around 5.30pm. "The incident took place along the Mahiyangana- Girandurukotte Road.

The Two youth died after admission to the Mahiyangana hospital. The deceased were identified as M. Nuwankumara (21), a resident of Nugekotuwa and P. Sanjeewa (18) from Kahatandala. In a seperates accident, a person was killed when a bus and motorcycle collided in Beligamuwa, Galew-ela on Sunday evening. SSP Karunaratna said a CTB bus plying from Galewela to Beligamuwa crashed into a motorcycle which was coming along the opposite side in the Pepolwatte area at around 6.00pm. The motor cyclist was killed on the spot. The victim was T.S. Weerasinghe (33), a resident of Lewela, Beligamuwa. The driver of the bus was arrested.

Workshops

The Sri Lanka Hotel Management Training School has taken steps to provide employment to youth in various sectors in tourism. The first two workshops will be held today at 9.00 a.m. and 11.00 a.m. at the Youth Welfare Centre of the National Youth Services Council, Horana Road, Panadura.

Art exhibition

The Faculty of Visual Arts of the Visual and Performing Arts University will hold an art exhibition from January 21 to February 4 to mark the opening of J.D.A. Perera Gallery.

YMBA panel discussion

A Buddhist public panel discussion of the Colombo YMBA will be held on January 17 at 10 a.m. at YMBA Borella building on "Managing Pain with Meditation". The panellists are Prof. Rajah de Alwis and Dr. Kanishka Karunaratne with Rajah Kuruppu as Moderator.

Buddhist talk

Professor Rajah de Alwis will deliver a public Buddhist talk in English on, Managing the straying mind during meditation" at a meeting of the Servants of the Buddha Society on January 16 at 4.30 PM at Maitri Hall, Lauries Road, Bambalapitiya.





