Managing Director HNB Assurance, Manjula de Silva said the company will invest heavily on product development, brand building, branch network and IT infrastructure this year.

"We are optimistic about the current economic conditions and are gearing up for the challenges that the industry needs to face this year," he said.

The growth of the insurance industry slowed down last year due to the economic conditions and this year too, there will be a decline in growth of the industry. As an insurance company we are confident of mitigating these challenges and reaching higher levels in this year," de Silva said.

This is an insurance solution tailor-made to meet all needs of the busy corporate executive, manager and director and their families, including household staff/domestic and taking virtually every possible requirement and contingency into consideration. It offers a customer a range of covers under a single policy with one premium payment and single renewal date thus offering convenience, saving premium and time for the customers.

De Silva said under this partnership Alfinco Insurance Brokers will be the marketing arm of this project and HNB Assurance will be the insurer of the project. We are confident on this partnership and this will create the access for the large customer base of Alfinco. They have the market access for the different segments in the corporate sector.

This policy was innovated by Alfinco Insurance Brokers and they selected HNB Assurance as their partners. When Alfinco came up with the idea our challenge was to add wide array of insurance perils to single policy and finally we were able to provide the solution, he said.

Deputy Chairman of the Alliance Group, Romani de Silva said this is the first time Alfinco a member of Alliance Group partnered with the HNB Assurance. HNB Assurance is a well established insurance company in the industry. Both companies have similarities in their operations and we think they are the ideal partner for this project.

"We expect to introduce more innovative products to the market partnering HNB Assurance this year," he said.





