Singapore Airlines doubles flights to Zurich

Singapore Airlines which operates direct flights to Colombo will increase the frequency of flights between Singapore and Zurich, Switzerland's main commercial and cultural centre, from March 2008.

The current daily frequency will be stepped up to 10 flights weekly from 4 March, then double-daily from 31 March, providing greater choice and flexibility to customers. As with the current daily service, the new flights will utilise the new Boeing 777-300ER aircraft.

Equipped with Singapore Airline's latest and most luxurious seat products across all three cabin classes, this aircraft features the ultra-wide Business Class seat, configured in a 4-abreast, 1-2-1 setting. Seats in all three classes feature the new KrisWorld, with over 1000 entertainment options, with full audio and video on demand, and a suite of office applications.

Demand for flights to Zurich reflects the growing nature of Zurich as a hub, connecting customers to cities in Europe.

Singapore Airlines Executive Vice-President Marketing and Regions Huang Cheng Eng says the increased frequency will enable the Airline to cater to the strong demand for business and leisure travel between Singapore and Zurich, including traffic to destinations beyond each city.

"Customers will be travelling in style and comfort, as all flights between Singapore and Zurich will use the new aircraft, equipped with our luxurious new cabin products," adds Huang.

SQ 342 will depart Singapore Changi Airport at 1400hrs and arrive at Zurich's Kloten Airport the same evening.

The return flight, SQ 341 will leave Zurich at 2145hrs and arrive in Singapore at 1635hrs the next day. The demand for Singapore flights is also mainly due to the services rendered by the staff he said.

Singapore Airlines also expects to expand its services to various other countries in the near future, he said. Adding to his statement he said the credibility maintained by the Airlines is very important, he said.





