MoU for academic cooperation

Rohan MATHES

Prof. Keerthi Tennakone for the Sri Lanka Institute of Fundamental Studies (IFS) Prof. Loran Adamson for the Georgia State University of the United States and Prof. K. Krahnaian for the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) signed a Memorandum of Understanding in the presence of President Mahinda Rajapaksa.

Secretary to the President Lalith Weeratunga, Acting Secretary to the Foreign Ministry D.B. Maduwegedara and several others were present.

The IFS signed the MoU with Georgia State University in the US and IIT Madras in India, thus synergising their capacities and strengths in different spheres of academia. The three academic institutions will establish close intellectual and academic cooperation among themselves.

The IIT is one of the most renowned and reputed academic institutions in the world. The seven IITs of India have contributed expansively to the economic and scientific advancement and development of the country, during the last five decades.

Most corporate executives and intellectuals in the Silicon Valley in California have graduated from the India based IITs. The Georgia State University in Atlanta is also a respected academic Institution in the US.

The academic and intellectual utility of this MoU would be exchange of faculty and graduate students, teaching facilities, extensive cooperative research and exchange of academic information between and among the institutions.

The collaboration of the Institutions, particularly from the perspective of the IFS, would be most beneficial to scientists and academics of Sri Lanka to have greater international exposure.

The realm of science and technology needs to be strengthened and capacities be enhanced, if Sri Lanka were to be a developed nation, as expounded by the Mahinda Chintanaya.

The intrinsic utility of this venture would be the generation and enhancement of more qualified, competent and marketable graduates, thus transcending to economic advancement of the country.





