EDEX - 2009 kicks off this week

The sixth consecutive edition of EDEX - National higher Education and Careers Expo, will be held from 23rd to 25th January at BMICH Colombo and on 27th and 28th January 2009 at Queens Hotel Kandy.

The vision of EDEX is to 'empower the Sri Lankan youth to be globally competitive'.

The youth in our country have so much potential but due to lack of awareness and guidance on opportunities for post secondary education, their progress is thwarted.

In 2004, the Royal College Union stepped in to bridge this void with the launch of EDEX by creating the most comprehensive single platform offering the widest possible range of choices, options and opportunities in higher education, skills development and vocational training leading to gainful employment.

The solitary twin mega exhibition in Sri Lanka, EDEX 2009, will have over 300 stalls for an expected 100,000 visitors, with representatives from over 15 countries.

Over 250 foreign universities represented directly or through their agents from countries such as United States of America, United Kingdom, Australia, Singapore, Russia, Japan, Bangladesh, India, China, Nepal, Switzerland,, France, New Zealand and Malaysia, will provide information on the courses available, requirements for scholarships awarded by them, 'On site' spot admissions and advice and guidance on student visas and other relevant information. Several scholarships and special offers await the deserving visitors at the Expo.

From the professional and technical training category, a large number of institutes from arenas such as Accounting, Marketing & Management, Maritime, Hospitality Management, Fashion Design, Aviation, Fine art, Computer studies, and Vocational Training will be present at EDEX.

With the world in chaos and the earth suffering under the strain of human activity, EDEX 2009 has ventured to create a 'green' conscious set of youth while providing a dynamic environment to help decide the course of their future. The Exhibition which provides a comprehensive education forum will also focus on the timely 'Go Green' and 'Sustainable Living' concept encouraging a new breed of 'green collar' workers

The exhibition, will feature a unique 'GREEN ZONE' where the concepts of green environment, green food, green energy and green behavior will be showcased with the firm belief that the future will be shaped by 'green collar' workers, those who are environmentally conscious and understand the importance of this green revolution.

In an emerging world of virtual education and opportunities, EDEX has moved with the times to establish a comprehensive web portal providing the opportunities available at the exhibition on a virtual platform. The web resources offered will be of immense benefit to the Sri Lankan youth including students as well as educators.

The virtual EDEX platform www.edex.lk was launched with the intention of reaching out to the rural youth of this country who often lack the resources to make it to the exhibition.

It offers the opportunity where CVs can be filed and accessed by the corporate entities participating in EDEX.

EDEX is organized by the Royal College Union and formally endorsed by the Presidential Secretariat, Ministry of Education, Ministry of Labour Relations and Manpower and the Ministry of Vocational & Technical Training.





