Online edition of Daily News - Lakehouse NewspapersThe Ministry of Foreign Affairs has made arrangements to highlight the many facets of Sri Lanka's foreign policy in its pavilion at the 'Deyata Kirula 2009' Exhibition, scheduled to take place from February 4 to 8 at the BMICH.

The Foreign Ministry segment highlights the new thrust in Sri Lanka's 'people-centric foreign policy,' comprising a projection of the 'Mahinda Chinthana' economic policy framework of the Government, states a Foreign Ministry release.

Sri lanka's bilateral and multilateral relations, economic diplomacy initiatives, development cooperation, counter-terrorism initiatives, cultural relations with emphasis on the country's Asian identity, tourism promotion initiatives and consular assistance will be highlighted at this year's exhibition.

A mobile consular unit that will service the general public with on-the-spot dissemination of consular services, as well as a mini-UN General Assembly session titled 'Future Diplomats' where interested students can participate in mock UN sessions and obtain hands-on training in diplomacy, are special features of this year's exhibition. The latter, organised by the Bandaranaike International Diplomatic Training Institute, will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and English.

The Foreign Ministry pavilion will disseminate information in a simple, easy-to-comprehend and attractive format using an amalgamation of audio-visual media and briefings. Highlights of the Colombo SAARC Summit, Sri Lanka's participation in the last UN General Assembly session in New York and selected foreign policy speeches/interviews will also be featured.

The Ministry pavilion will also distribute leaflets in Sinhala, English and Tamil containing information on the work of the Foreign Ministry, its overseas embassies and consulates, its consular services and Sri Lanka's relations with the world, including its membership in regional/multilateral groupings and its foreign policy achievements. Special attention has been paid to projecting the economic diplomacy initiatives of the Foreign Ministry.

Space has also been allocated to embassies, honorary consulates and UN agencies based in Sri Lanka to display their information and material.



