Muslim academics, intellectuals support President

Muslim academics and intellectuals yesterday appealed to the Muslim community to vote for President Mahinda Rajapaksa at the forthcoming elections to ensure a bright future for all communities.

Plus points

* President has real goal

* President's manifesto clear

* President brought peace

Addressing the media at the Mahaweli Centre, Colombo University Professor of Political Science- Dr M.S. Anees said three decades of bloody war was the main roadblock for development of the country.

It was eradicated by President Mahinda Rajapaksa. "It is now time for all communities to unite and work for the country's development", he added.

The President has a real goal to take the country towards development and for a prosperous future. Therefore, many political parties and senior political leaders joined hands with him. They all share a common vision and aim to lead the nation towards development under the Mahinda Chintana, he said.

Opposition Presidential candidate Sarath Fonseka has also secured the support of certain political parties but they have different views and opinions. Especially the Tamil National Alliance. They have no common platform or idea to address minorities grievances, Dr. Anees said.

to the nation by ending the war which claimed hundreds and thousands of lives. "The President aims to ensure stability and economic growth. The Muslim community is also in need of a stable Government that looks into the betterment and grievances of the minorities.

Thus, the Muslim community will in large measure support the President at the forthcoming Presidential election," he added.Zuhair said the Opposition Presidential candidate has no agenda or a clear manifesto. President Rajapaksa in his manifesto clearly mentioned his aims and ideas.

"If we are to keep our rapid progress in the country, we must stick to the Mahinda Chintana. If Sarath Fonseka comes to power all the development projects in the North, East and all other parts of the country will be reversed," he added.

He earnestly requested the Muslim community to vote for President Rajapaksa on January 26.

All Ceylon Muslim Congress General Secretary Y.L.S. Hameed said Sarath Fonseka' was talking about two main issues. First is corruption and the other is abolishing the Executive Presidential system.

"We don't have to talk about corruption,. Sarath Fonseka is already corrupt. To form a Government and abolish the Executive Presidency, he must garner the support of minorities. Sarath Fonseka is the one who said the minority has no place in this country," he added. He described Sarath Fonseka as a dictator who doesn't know how to use polite language. "Sarath Fonseka even before he comes to power is threatening the Security Forces, officers and police officers, saying they had better look for another job after January 26.

Even if Fonseka becomes the President, he has no right to remove anyone from their positions without following the legal procedure.

He is using harsh and tough language on stage. This demonstrates his real face and proves that he is a dictator," he added.

Political Communication Researcher Noor Nizam said there are over 820,000 Muslim votes in the country . These votes have the power to decide who the next President would be .

"With our votes we can decide on the next President.

"Therefore, Muslims should cast their votes for President Rajapaksa who has a clear vision and aim to develop the country through the Mahinda Chintana-II," he added.





