Gearing up for IMEXPRO 2008

Organisers of IMEXPRO 2008 is finalising arrangements for this event. 'IMEXPRO 2008' is organised by the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce in association with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, The Ministry of Trade, Marketing Development, Co-operatives and Consumer Services, The Ministry of Export Development and International Trade, The Board of Investment of Sri Lanka, The Export Development Board and the SriLankan Airlines Ltd.

With trade delegations from Canada, India, Indonesia, Italy, Jordan, Malaysia, Nepal, Oman, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Korea, The Maldives, UAE and USA confirmed as participants, and several more in the process of registering, the organisers are keen to see as many local and foreign participants make use of this opportunity to promote their products and services.

The exhibition will feature Products and Services under the categories of Agro/Marine, Services and Industrial/Manufactured Products sectors. Among the foreign participants the areas of spices (Cinnamon), foodstuff, footwear, garments, pharmaceuticals, fruits and vegetables, rice, handicrafts, textiles and gems and jewellery are believed to be of popular interest.

With 300 overseas buyers expected to visit, the visitors will also comprise the Sri Lankan business community, overseas buyers/sellers, exhibitors (local and foreign) and the general public.

Discounted airfare from the National Carrier SriLankan Airlines for identified sectors, discounted hotel accommodation, shuttle service between the Exhibition Venue and hotel and networking sessions with the local business community are some of the facilities that are on offer for overseas delegates.

As IMEXPRO 2008 is also held with the objective of assisting the Sri Lankan and Overseas Business Community to source suitable business partners, this event will showcase a range of local and international products and services.

HSBC is the Platinum Sponsor of IMEXPRO 2008 along with the SAARC and Trade Promotion Projects implemented jointly by the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce and the German Technical Cooperation (GTZ) on behalf of the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development BMZ.

Through the GTZ-Supported SAARC and Trade Promotion Projects, IMEXPRO 2008 will feature a SAARC Trade Pavilion with all the partner organisations in SAARC countries as well as a special stall where businesses from the eastern region in Sri Lanka can display their products.

HSBC will be the official banker to facilitate currency transactions for overseas delegates visiting IMEXPRO 2008.





