Ridi Viharaya

This viharaya was founded during the reign of King Dutugemunu. (137 BC-161 BC).

When King Dutugemunu was building the Ruwanweliseya (Great Stupa) he searched for gold, silver and gems for depositing inside the stupa.

During that time a merchant was travelling from Anuradhapura to Malaya (hill country) in a convoy of wagon.

On the way he stopped to find some wood and went up the mountain where he came across a large ripe jak fruit on a tree.

He cut the ripe fruit and thought of giving a part of the fruit as alm to the monk when four arhants appeared before him.

He offered part of the fruit as alms to them who accepted his offering and went on their way. Four other arhants also appeared before the merchant.

He offered them the jak fruit as alms. After accepting the alm three left and one remained.

The merchant then went along his the path the arhant had taken when he came across the arhants seated near a cave.

This arhants directed him to walk along a path when he came across a cave with silver in it.

He broke a piece of silver and presented it to King Dutugemunu. Whereupon the king had the treasure brought to him.

This cave was called Ambatthakola cave.

The king had a temple built there. The king sent his chief artisan Vishwakarma Prathiraja and 1000 other artisan to build this temple.

The Ridi Viharaya is situated in Kurunegala in the village of Ridigama and can be reached by road which is about 15 km from town.

"This temple is enriched with various forms of art ranging from the Anuradhapura era to the Kandyan era.

The work of art can be categorised as painting, wood craft, stone carvings, ivory carvings and others' said chief priest of Ridi Viharaya, Venerable Thibbatuwawe Buddha Rakkhitha Thera. According to the book of "Rataka Mahima- Ridi Vihare" by J.B.Disanayaka. "Credit for drawing murals at the Ridi Viharaya go to several generation of artists.

The first mural was the work of Dewaragampala Silwaththana.

Mahanuwara Degaldoruwa murals work was also done by him.

Hereafter this responsibility was cast on the Nilagama generation of artists which was also responsible for the murals at Dambulla cave temple.

Their dependence are still living the areas surrounding Ridi Viharaya"

Varaka Valandu Vihara

At the entrance to the cave temple, just before the main body of the temple lies the Varaka Valandu Vihara (Jackfruit treat temple), an exquisite little temple, which dates from around the eleventh century.

The main rock-cut temple

There is a wooden entrance pavilion and cross a small courtyard painted in harmonious pastel colours to reach the main rock-cut temple, the Pahala Vihara (Lower temple).

Gold plated Buddha statue attributed to King Dutugamunu is kept securely inside a special case.

Dragon Arch

In the main chamber is an impressive seated Buddha set on a busy backdrop Makara Torana (Dragon Arch) of images of gods, devotees and Buddhas. Paintings of mythological animals and King Rawana too adorn the temple.

Comparing with other Dragon Arches in Sri Lanka this creation is slightly different because the heads were created in the opposite way with other creations.

Pancha Nari Gataya

Pancha Nari Gataya (The knot of five maidens) in the lower temple is the most artistic creation.

To the right of the entrance to the lower temple is an exquisite ivory carving of a vase. At the close range the vase blooms into a figure of five entwined maidens.

Blue and white tiles

Banishment of Adam and Eve from the Garden of Eden, the last supper, Moses and the burning bush, prophets of yore, dove of peace, creation of man are some of the scenes depicted in the tiles.

Upper Temple

Behind the temple, steps lead up to the right to the Uda Vihara (Upper Temple) right behind. This eighteenth-century structure is attributed to King Kirti Sri Rajasinghe. The entrance consists of Kandyan-period moonstone and steps flanked by elephants.

Serasum gala

Outside the temple complex you can see an abandoned dagoba at the top of a smooth rocky outcrop.

"It was the place where king Dutugamunu dressed and came to worship Ridi Viharaya" said a guide of the Ridi Viharaya, Chandana Jayasooriya.

According to "Ridi Vihara Asna" king Dutugemunu brought the statue from Anuradhapura in a special procession, for the ceremonial placing of eyes at Ridi Viharaya. The statue was brought from India.

Wadduwa Holiday Resort

Ideal for a group outing

Blue skies and blue waters all around is the arresting beauty and charm of this popular hotel which is situated in a fishing village in the west coast overlooking the Indian Ocean.

The tranquility and charm of the setting give the visitors peace of mind and allows them to enjoy the serene ocean view as if on their own private beach.

Wadduwa Holiday Resort

Wadduwa Holiday Resort belongs to Sri Lanka Army approved by the Tourist Board managed by the army welfare society. It is located in the beach 2km from Panadura via Galle Road from Colombo. It has 20 air conditioned rooms with two banquet halls which can be accommodated 250 and 175 paxes. There is culinary facility either eastern or western dishes with the buffet on holidays with entertainments and recreation facilities in open air on holidays at affordable rates.

These services are available for personal in the armed services, Sri Lankan and foreigners as well. The intention to start this Holiday Resort has been its impart training for children of service personnel on hotel management make job opportunities for the trainees. Presently most of the trainees have completed the training and are qualified for employment within a short period.

Those who have volunteered and senior hotel professionals have come forward to impart the training.

The new wing of the Holiday Resort was started some time back in April last year at an investment of 100 million. "It is expected to complete the final stage by the end of this year and the project will have 20 Deluxe rooms and 2 Penta Houses. The new wing has 3 storeys, a lobby area, mini laundry and a resident restaurant" said Manager of Wadduwa Holiday Resort, Ashoka Bamunusinghe. Lt. col G.R.M.U.K.K. Jayasinghe is the Hotel In charge of Wadduwa Holiday Resort.

The coconut palm garden provides the world weary traveller with an ideal setting to relax while watching the sun going beneath the horizon and experience of the golden beach is an absolute food for the soul.

Wadduwa Holiday Resort is an ideal place for a group outing , luxury accommodation with sun and sand and more preciously a place to select for your very special day.

- GP

Holiday Resort for Kataragama pilgrims

Sriyantha Holiday Resort, Kataragama is located within Kataragama sacred area and was inaugurated in March 2007.

It is located in the Sella Kataragama Road 500 metres from the Thorana Junction. As you enter this 2 storeyed building you come across the welcome sight of 4 giant Tamarind Trees. It resembles the mood and environment of silence in the Dry Zone with the sound of animals and birds for whom the nearby animal sanctuary is located. It has 4 air-conditioned rooms along with 8 other rooms. The rooms can occupy four maximum. The food is typical southern dishes and famous for rice and curry. The past records of visitors do testify that it is a growing recreation location for pilgrims.





