Reel re-wind and fast forward

Last year is history and this year is a mystery. However some of our celebrities love to spare a few moments to indulge on the memories of 2009 as well as reveal a bit about the surprises they have in store for their fans in 2010. Daily News 'Projector' contacted some significant faces in the scene to reflect on their hopes and dreams

Anusha Damayanthi

Multi-talented Anusha has always been one artiste who had made a striking impact last year in number of diverse fields. Apart from setting the screen alight with her dazzling presence, she enthralled the audience as the commentator of Swarnavahini's 'Shadow Star', showcased her skills as a gifted dancer and is now on the verge of exploring her talents as a vocalist in 'Megastar'.

"Last year was special because of two main reasons. We were able to eliminate terrorism and I displayed my talents in a number of fields. I wish to organize a dance performance this year and excel as a dancer. I have got a lot of invitations to host programs so that is another sector that is under consideration," she expressed.

Seven of Anusha's films will be screened in 2010.

Basal Jayakody

Fans are still reeling over his impact in Jackson Anthony's Aba. He also appeared in a several other significant roles in a few creations in 2009. however 2010 will see five of his moves in theatres.

"Gamani, Ira Handa Yata, Bomba Saha Rosa, Bambara Valalla and Isthuthi Navatha Enna will be released this year. I pin my hopes on those as they will decide whether I will continue with acting as my main profession. It is somewhat of a decisive year for me," Bimal opined. He also added that he is considering taking up another profession aside from acting.

According to Bimal 2009 had not been such a significant year for movies or teledramas. Only a few noteworthy creations had broken to the scene. "As teledrama actors we are very disappointed with where the industry is heading. Quality and meaningful creations hardly take shape," he pointed out.

Damitha Abeyratne

Last year set yet another milestone for the talented actress who not only won accolades for her performances but also turned producer with Ridee Tharaka the teledrama which is telecasting on ITN.

Damitha says: "I actually meant to launch another project which I had planned with Lucien Bulathsinhala but we had problems with finalizing the project so Ridee Tharaka came first. However we wish to begin work on the teledrama this year. Shooting will take place in Singapore."

Reflecting on the past Damitha notes that the most heart-warming incident she recalls in 2009 was the country's was liberation from terrorism.

"It is an unforgettable moment in my life not only as an artiste but also as a citizen of this country. Now that we are free from terrorism I request the authorities to lower the tax prices of essential goods. Many people call us and lament over the ascending prices in the market. It is heart wrenching to listen to them crying. I celebrated the New Year by providing essential ingredients to five needy families in my hometown," she stated while emphasizing the need of more quality films and teledramas making to the scene in 2010.

Damitha is also set to explore her talents as a vocalist in Swarnavahini's 'Mega Star' reality program. Two of her films Isthuthi Navatha Enna and Dakina Dakina Mal will be released soon.

Pictures by - Tennyson Edirisinghe

Kishani Alanki

She made a memorable appearance in Aadarae Namayen but disappeared from the cinema screen last year. However fans need not fret as Kishani is back with films in 2010.

"Another film is under consideration. I got many offers last year but some of the projects did not take off due to various reasons. 2009 was a challenging year indeed because I had to tackle the arts stream as well as concentrate on my studies. You have to decide how to strike a balance," she said adding that she is attending classes for her degree in economics.

Kishani had taken part in three music videos last year and two more is due to take shape.

"I resolve to better my acting skills in 2010 and give my best for future creations. Though I have nothing against acting in teledramas I do not wish to take up roles in those which they call 'mega teledramas'. she added.

Channa Perera

Though he was out of the cinema reel last year fans will be elated to know that he will be back on screen through Ananda Wickramasinghe's Hadawatha Mal Yayai. In addition Channa clinched yet another award for his high cinematic skills in directing his maiden movie, the 2006 hit Anjalika.

"Bagging a SIGNIS awards was a great encouragement. Two of my teledramas are already unspooling on TV and I am hoping to work on a Children's television series in the future. Shooting is set to begin in February," said the actor cum director who enjoys engaging children in his creations.

"Another film is also on the cards. Hopefully the project will take off towards March," he revealed his plans for 2010.

Pramudhi Karunaratne

Juggling acting and studies is no easy task but Pramudhi's passion for the wide and mini screen had kept her on top in both fields. She had worked in films like Tikiri Suwanda and Bomba Saha Rosa, both which have concluded shooting and are ready to roll on screen.

"I will be sitting for my A\Ls in the Arts stream this year so studies will be the main focus. I hope to take up more projects once the exams conclude," said the gifted lass who is also currently shooting for Sirasa TV's lengthy teledrama Gahanu Lamai.

"Alu Paata Heenae, a teledrama in which I portray an entirely different role will begin telecasting on Swarnavahini soon. I also took part in the visuals for my debut music video, Lahiru Perera's Sudu Gavma. It will be launched this month," she noted with a smile.





