Youth for a change

The Nena Guna Weduma-Sisu Diriya - 2010 national program is being conducted to socially integrate the youth directly affected by the war and to bring out their talents in creative art and drama.

Under this program, they are made to contribute towards social development activities in their areas. These youth as 'Change Agents' exchange their experience gained in the training conducted by this project and will soon make their valuable contribution towards various groups of people in the North and East.

Schoolchildren from Vavuniya, Mannar and Jaffna districts will largely participate at this national program under Uthuru Vasanthaya and will engage in practical activities such as field tour and lectures.

The resource persons will conduct these activities in the areas and will earn rich dividends as income. This 'Change Agents' program with nearly 600 young school prefects from O/L and A/L classes belonging to 28 Government schools in Mannar Education Zone will be held from January 6 to 9 at Sithi Vinayagar Maha Vidyalaya, Mannar.

Tajikistan quake leaves 10,000 homeless

An earthquake in the Pamir mountains of Tajikistan has destroyed hundreds of homes, leaving some 10,000 people without shelter in the dead of winter, officials said yesterday. "According to preliminary information, 300 houses have been destroyed," a regional spokesman for the country's Civil Defense Committee responsible for the affected area said.

Some 10,000 people have been left without shelter as scores of other homes have been damaged, the spokesman said, citing preliminary information.

Two schools, a clinic and a power line have also been destroyed, he added.

DUSHANBE, Sunday, AFP

ARPA's for election duty

The Agriculture Research and Production Assistants Union in a press release yesterday said that certain misleading reports appearing in the media about a decision not to deploy them for election duty was rejected by the Elections Commissioner's Office

Agriculture Research and Production Assistants ARPA's will be deployed on election duties and the government has made arrangements to release them.

No decision has been made by the authorities to keep them away from election duties, the union release said.

[Help sought]

B.L. Chaminda, 28, from Jayawickrama Mawatha, Udukawa, Denipitiya, Matara is suffering from an acute renal failure and doctors treating him at the National Hospital, Colombo have recommended an immediate kidney transplant to save his life.

The total cost is estimated to be around Rs. 400,000 which the family finds it difficult to raise.

Chaminda's wife requests the public to contribute to this cause by sending contributions to A/c No. 032-2-001-0-0010564 at Matara Uyanwatte branch of People's Bank in her name Dayani Rajapakse.

Semindu Hishan Malinga, 8, is suffering from a chronic bone complication disease and needs to continue the drugs for a considerable period to cure this ailment.

The family requests the public to help them by sending contributions to A/c No. 207-606575-6 of B. Sudarshanee at Beralapanathara People's Bank branch.

Hansi, 7, from Holmanaya Watte, Polathugoda, Thihagoda is suffering from an acute neurotic problem and family members find it difficult to raise the money needed to save her life.

They request the public to contribute to this cause by sending contributions to A/C No. 8214388 in the name of B.S. Ruwan Kumar of Bank of Ceylon.





