Prayers for peace

Western Province Governor Alavi Mowlana requests the Muslim community to participate in prayers for peace especially for the people of Palestine.

"Peace can be obtained by involving in prayers since peace is vital for the whole world," Mawlana said.

He also requested the people to donate tea and medicines for Security Forces personnel.

The donations have to be handed over to Moulavis at mosques. Arrangements have been made to collect and distribute the donations among Security Forces personnel.

Fulfil duties in New Year

D.C. de Silva Kahawa Special Corr.

Southern Province Governor Kumari Balasuriya, in association with the office staff on January 01, 2009 celebrated the 1st working day of the year 2009.

After hoisting the National Flag she exhorted office staff to fulfil their duties in the New Year with the same dedication shown in the previous year.

"Forget all differences among you if any, in order to do so," she said.

"We must work together with unity and amity all throughout she said adding that it was her message to the whole Province. The "Year 2009 is the year of National Peace," she stressed.

"Be sure of the election victory in the North West and Central Provinces by the UPFA under the guidance of the President Mahinda Rajapaksa," she said. The Maha Sangha earlier chanted Seth Pirith and invoked blessings on the Governor and staff.

Three fined

Matale district group correspondent

Dambulla Magistrate Nimal Ranaweera imposed a fine of Rs. 15,000 on three persons (Rs. 5,000 each) who pleaded guilty to having 368,000 ML of goda.

Land donated

MILTON DHARMASINGHE Bulathsinhala spl. corr.

A one acre land was donated to the Bulathsinhala Pradeshiya Sabha to establish Egal Oya Weekly Fair, following a request made by Chairman, Bulathsinhala Pradeshiya Sabha Thusitha Kularatna to the Superintendent, Kobowela Plantations.

Nisala Wijewardhana, Superintendent of Kobowela Plantations handed over the land to the Chairman, Bulathsinhala PS in a deed.





