Call for Peace

Let's all pray For the unity of Sri Lanka Bereft of war, Free of all narrow divisions Of language, caste or creed And other evil thoughts That have shattered our nation's peace. Let's all pray For a united Sri Lanka Sans man made borders Of North and East, South and West. And other self-defined boundaries To hopefully see the end Of all turmoil With no hate or fear To see a resurgent Sri Lanka Greening richly Like some parched land After a welcome shower, Dispelling totally The fear and ignorance Of one another's religion, Language and race, Making harmful thoughts Only a past experience And strengthen our proud country To bravely forge ahead To unitedly stand In everlasting peace and harmony As one country. One land And one nation.

Andrew Scott

Tsunami is your name

Frightens us even today when recollected That heap of iron in tons which was toppled by you Took innocent lives of thousands of us Relentlessly into deep blue sea.

Weeping and wailing even today Seeking the warmth of parents and relatives But, no clue, no sign We still unaware, why you were so harsh and brutal on us.

Don't you have a heart And why no mercy on us? You try to torture us Again and again

There showed a great doctrine to the world Bestowed a great meaning But the love, affection sincerity All fallen into oblivion today and You have turned your eyes blazed with range on us.

Please no repetition please Please no meeting again We vow to love the nature We protect the environment No more obscene tales or acts on your beech We woo the green which protects you

We respect the mankind Tsunami please help us not to sight or feel again forever

I. Damayanthi, The poet is a tsunami surviver of the train mishap at Peraliya

A New Chapter

The leaves of the mango tree Joyfully rustle, The bubbles of the stream Rhythmically reverberate, The scent of jasmine Bathes every inch of the nest, The moonlight in the starry night Does slowly descend Defeating darkness, The flame of the oil lamp Playfully dances As the hitherto single photo Lying in the loneliness of cabinet Is going to be replaced With the photo of Mine and her!

A. Jayalath Basnagoda

Thoughts at random

Aspire great heights - dream of heavens unknown Bow to humility - and ne'er hove cause to mourn. Extricate the truth - ignore what's otherwise Then ye shall to greater glory rise. Win the goodwill of all - love everyone Life's gloomy clouds from you then run. Redeem the condemned - comfort the suffering Do thou thy duty and thine be praise undying. The poor enrich - envy not the rich Nectar shall pour forth - from every nook and niche. External praise be thine - with life's sparkling wine.

L. E. C. Salgado

Dreamy Christmas

I long to have Christmas, As the children in far away lands. Because I think it is such fun, To make snowballs, And snowmen, And skate on lakes, And run. Then go into the crazy home, And feel the warmth, All around. And eat hot food and drink, And twirl round and round.

I think it is fun, To play, "Snakes and ladders", And "Monopoly" with everyone, Sitting near the fire. And go into, "My worlds of dreams" When the night, Comes by.

Tharani Tennekoon, The poet passed away at the age of 16 of a brian tumour.

The lonely Christmas

One by one drops of snow fell, At once I heard the church bell, I remember it's Christmas, And a sad thought came to me.

I heard the wind blowing softly, Through the pine trees. Though I heard the sound of Carols, It's not Christmas for me.

Sadly I got up and walked alone the road, I saw a house which was blessed by god. They were rich and were very happy, They sang and danced so merrily.

I remembered the time that I had a house, I remembered my parents and the Christmas we had. I remembered how I was parted from them, And left in an orphanage with no one to talk.

I saw a Christmas stable which gleamed, Where the baby Jesus was born. I saw the animals who cared for him, And the happiness among them.

I went near it and fell down, I saw the heaven which opened for me. It seemed like Jesus is looking at me, And in this lonely Christmas, I'm going to him.

D. W. Lilani Anuruddhika

Cameos of anguish

My heart is engulfed in sadness for My island of golden beach and swaying palms Struck by the cruel killer tsunami of 2004. Seismic sea waves generated by a quake Causing utter destruction and death to Coastal villages, their quaint environment Crumbled, devastated as the sea surged angrily Wrenching, tossing habitations, everything with mighty hand. People fled, children wailed in fear Bruised and broken like slender reeds Caught up in raging, swirling waters that knew no mercy. Great tidal waves penetrated inland Sweeping fiercely with wrathful waters Our vegetation, paddy fields drenched in salinity. The swelling waters embraced, then flung Violently fishing boats far and away The nets like witches' shawls, drifting along Helpless victims, their bedraggled bodies afloat And survivors struck by a catastrophic tsunami Walked aimlessly with wounds and blood stained clothes. Look at distraught faces, visions of fear Penetrating eyes that have no tear Bereaved families with shattered hearts Cameos of anguish, personifications of fear.

Caryl Nugara

Wish upon a star

A plane just flies by In the night sky You came to my mind And I wished I could fly





