Online edition of Daily News - Lakehouse NewspapersCrossing the open terrain was the greatest obstacle. Crossing the marble coloured beaches was worse. Yet they moved on. Courage and valour alone would not be successful when fighting the world's most ruthless terrorist group. "we operated during the night time. As our Commanders' orders the strategy we adhered to effectively lead us to the victory and saved ours and soldiers lives," Captain Darshana Boyagane of the 8th Vijeyaba Infantry Regimental (VIR) Battalion told us when we met soldiers of the 8 VIR battalion at the Iyakachchi junction during our visit to the Jaffna peninsula. Soldiers of 8VIR, 6 Sri Lanka Light Infantry (SLLI) battalion and 7 VIR had their recoveries displayed at this point. While these soldiers paused for a while at the Iyakachchi junction on the A9 road, their colleagues were progressing from Vettalaikerni on the coastal belt running parallel to the East of the A9 road. Soldiers explained their operation to regain Elephant Pass. Passing Elephant Pass the troops were speeding towards Chundikulam. "The LTTE didn't expect such swift moves from us. Our moves always surprised them," Captain Sunil Pathirana of the 6 SLLI said. When we met Officers and soldiers of the 8 VIR, 7 VIR and 6 SLLI under the 552 and 553 Brigades had their recoveries from the enemy proving their victory. At the end of their assigned task, operation liberating the total area from Muhamale to Chundikulam, starting from January 6 up to 14, troops attached to the 55 Division recovered over 1500 anti personnel mines buried by the LTTE, 15 LMGs and MPMG type weapons along with a haul of T56 weapons and ammunition. On January 15 troops recovered LTTE attack boat, slightly smaller than a Navy's dvora, hidden among the marshes in the Chundikulam lagoon. A few days before they recovered a suicide boat of LTTE's Sea Tigers. Across the sea-shore there has been a large number of small boats improvised to mount 12.7mm guns. Troops attached to the 55 division have found around 150 such boats during the operation time period. Sandy beaches in the Chundikulam coastal line are not at all in favour of heavy vehicles. The fleeing Tigers have left behind many of their lorries, tractors and even troop carriers and weapon transporting vehicles. The Army recovered a special heavy plated improvised lorry. This 30 feet long heavy vehicle has a 23 feet trailer. The body of the vehicle was covered with two layers of 1/4 inch metal plates. The top has been kept open. The door was three inches thick and was in two sections. A small side door was also created in the door. Hence when the door is totally sealed LTTE cadres can move in and out without opening the doors fully imposing danger on whatever the activity that may be taking place in the vehicle. The drivers section was totally covered with the same type of plates including the windscreen except for an approximately six inches gap for the driver to see the road. There were old bullet marks on plates surfaces of this vehicle from which the vehicle hardly has been damaged. A Leyland bus left by the fleeing cadres was also found with two tank blaster mines planted at the front and rear wheels. A heavily plated troop carrier has been left by the cadres while on the run for their lives. It was drowned half way at one end of the lagoon, left doors wide open. By the smell from the fuel tanks it was obvious that all these vehicles have been using kerosene as fuel. "We hardly have a second chance to correct ourselves. If we make a mistake once we pay for it with our lives," said Major Mahinda Jayawardane, Commanding Officer of the 6th Engineers battalion operating with the infantry troops attached to the 55 division. This battalion moves in the same velocity of the infantry troops as it is their task to create paths for the troops to move. They are always at the spearhead. The 8th Field Engineers battalion is repairing and maintaining the immediately cleared areas with a huge task of keeping the routes safe and clear for the troops to move smoothly. The Engineers battalions are making the recently liberated areas in the Chundikulam coastal line free of deadly anti personnel mines and trappings. "Even if the conventional war ends we cannot end the task. "The whole area is spotted with AP mines laid by the enemy. These have to be cleared for the area to be totally safe," Major Jayawardane added. These valient soldiers sacrificing their lives are making a safer and a peaceful future not for them but for people whom they have never seen or spoken to. As they continue to make their voices heard and organise mass rallies in the recent past. the people of Jaffna can now enjoy the fresh fragrance of peace and happiness - with the blessings of our soldiers.



