Police have eliminated fear in public mind

"Number of underworld and criminal gangs have been effectively dealt with thereby eliminating fear in the minds of the public", said Inspector General of Police Victor Perera in a new year message.

In his message the IGP says, the Police department has a proud history of over fourteen decades. It has faced numerous challenges and stands tall to face the future. It is appropriate to look back and see how much we have been successful in the past and what is yet to be achieved."

The message: during the year 2007 the Police have passed many milestones from the perspective of its service and the membership now stands over 73,000 of all ranks.

The administration of the criminal justice system has been energised through closer rapport established between the Police and the judiciary. As stated by Charles Reith, "no effective policing is possible without the support and involvement of the community."

We have seen the establishment of the Strategic Development Division which has received the community policing process.

"The Police Force can proudly claim a fair share in the ongoing successful efforts to eradicate terrorism with the assistance extended to the three Forces fighting the LTTE. The special drive to recruit 10,000 constables for development in the liberated areas is being achieved.

These men are specially trained for the task and terrain through a specially designed training curricula conducted at capacity enhanced training facilities and newly opened Wings of the Police College.

Language training, including Tamil language essential to interact with the public is considered priority. The Inservice Training Centres and the Police College have re-launched a drive to teach Tamil to all ranks.

The frustration among the rank and file has been to a very great extent removed by conducting rank to rank promotions. The good work exhibited in the field of Police duties has been duly recognised by clearing a backlog of rewards that were outstanding for years.

"I firmly believe that every member of the Service is tough enough to face up to the challenges so levelled against us and deliver desired results."

May the year 2008 bring an abundance of peace, harmony and success for all members of the Police service. Their families and the public, the IGP added.





