Give priority to family values in New Year - Pope Benedict XVI

"The language of the family is a language of peace; we must always draw from it, lest we lose the "vocabulary" of peace.

In the inflation of its speech, society cannot cease to refer to that "grammar" which all children learn from the looks and the actions of their mothers and fathers, even before they learn from their words, His Holiness Pope Benedict XVI states in His message to mark the World Day of Peace which falls today.

The Pontiff writing the Message taking "The Human Family, a Community of Peace" as the theme says: The family, since it has the duty of educating its members, is the subject of specific rights.

The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which represents a landmark of juridic civilisation of truly universal value, states that "the family is the natural and fundamental group unit of society and is entitled to protection by society and the State".

For its part, the Holy See sought to acknowledge a special juridic dignity proper to the family by publishing the Charter of the Rights of the Family.

At the beginning of a New Year, I wish to send my fervent good wishes for peace, together with a heartfelt message of hope to men and women throughout the world. I do so by offering for our common reflection the theme which I have placed at the beginning of this message.

It is one which I consider particularly important: the human family, a community of peace. The first form of communion between persons is that born of the love of a man and a woman who decide to enter a stable union in order to build together a new family.

The natural family, as an intimate communion of life and love, based on marriage between a man and a woman constitutes "the primary place of 'humanisation' for the person and society" and a "cradle of life and love".

The family is therefore rightly defined as the first natural society, "a divine institution that stands at the foundation of life of the human person as the prototype of every social order," the Pope writes.





