Online edition of Daily News - Lakehouse NewspapersIt was in the kingdom of Kapilawasthu also known as Kimbulwathpura, now called Nepal, that King Suddhodana of the Sakya dynasty reigned in ancient Dambadiva. He was very popular and well-known for his justice and fairplay, righteous rule and kindness to his subjects, who held the benevolent monarch in high esteem as an embodiment of virtues. Both the cities, Rajagaha and Kimbulwathpura remained the best located cities standing testimony to the efficiency of his rule of benevolence. These royal cities were hailed as the most venerated cities in Jambudweepa occuping a unique place in religious history. His queen Maha Maya was a deeply religious lady, the most virtuous who later became the proud mother of the Thathagatha. In his last life, born to the worthy Sakyan couple as the heir to the great empire, he renounces all and by intense meditation discovers the eternal truth. The great personality, the fountain of compassion, the supreme enlightened one, gained liberation from all obstacles in life, the world teacher 'Saththa Devamanussanang' blessed the humanity with the outcome of his intellectual struggle - the eternal truth of life. His doctrine and the message of the Dhamma proclaimed was spread everywhere across India. The Buddha visiting places to deliver sermons displaying the masterly knowledge of the Dhamma is described 'Buddhi Charya' (Charya meaning for the good of the mankind). A common visit made for the dissemination of the Dhamma for the relief of the entire humanity is termed as 'Lokarthacharya' Deliverance made for the benefit of the relatives is known as 'Gnanarthacharya'. Accordingly visiting Kimbulwathpura to enlighten the relatives at the request of the father took place on this day of Medin Poya. King Suddhodana had not been blessed with the opportunity of hearing Dhamma though majority in Jambuddweepa had enjoyed the doctrine of the Buddha. He had not seen him for six years since renunciation and when he heard that Sakyamuni was at Weluwanarama while on his sasanic tour, the impatient king dispatched a minister accompanied by a retinue of thousand followers to invite him to Kimbulwathpura. Nine ministers were sent at different times. The anxious king was disappointed as no one returned. They had all been attracted by the absolute truth unfolded by the great Master. They were all true Arahants now. The king in dismay, but not discouraged turned to the Minister Kaludai - Prince Siddhartha's playmate born on the same day and requested him to invite his son to come to the city on his behalf, which he did accept quite willingly, but on condition that he be given permission to enter the order. Hence he was sent with yet another 1,000 followers who followed the Dhamma and became his disciples. After a week describing the beauty of the way in 60 stanzas he informed the Buddha of the honoured invitation, of the father. He said thus "Oh Lord of heroes, the time has come for you to visit the Sakyans coming down from Bhageeratha generation for their emancipation." 'Saadu Udai Karissami 'Gnathi Sangahana'. Well, I did accept the invitation in the words of the Buddha. Accordingly he set out from Weluwanarama to Kimbulwath on Medin full moon day. The Buddha who with his psychic powers could reach any distance before one could stretch a bent hand, a distance of 60 yojanas were covered within two months paving the way for the wayside devotees to gather merit and attain Nibbana. A colourful procession was there to welcome Thathagatha. But on arrival the Sakyans were not prepared to worship Sakyamuni as the age was considered the prime factor to spiritual supremacy. Due to pure ignorance, which was termed as false pride, they did not venerate him considering him to be junior to them. This compelled him to use his unique psychic powers - Yamaka Prathihara - the Twin Miracle by which he could emanate at will, fire from one half of the body and water from the other half. Moved by the amazing performance the king worshipped him at once followed by the Sakyans reminiscing the two previous occasions that he worshipped Sakyamuni. Amidst the Sakyan crowd the absence of Queen Yasodhara the wife of Prince Siddhartha a very sincere and faithful character throughout Sansara was a prominent factor which made the Buddha to go to her and console her recollecting the strong bond they had in their previous lives. He delivered the sermon of the Sandakinduru Jataka, reflecting the true love and devotion of a faithful wife. The sorrow stricken Yasodhara who was weeping profusely at his feet was praised for her exemplary behaviour and finally she attained Sotapanna. Her next interest was to enter the order. The Buddha gave no reply as it was not the correct time. The order of nuns was established five years later. Prince Rahula and Nanda were ordained while the rest clasped their hands together (palms) in veneration to the Buddha who blessed them with overwhelming compassion. All these sacred events highlight the importance of this Medin Full Moon Day in the Sasanic history.



