SAFTA: A win-win share of the trade pie

Dr. Sohan K. KARNA

In an increasingly open environment of free trade world wide, South Asian countries cannot keep their borders closed for free trade and commerce. The much-debated SAFTA agreement raises hopes of a better trade environment.

Colombo port becoming a SAARC hub

Plenty of desire has been expressed by the leaders of SAARC to make South Asia a commercially attractive place for the world to invest in, with only a note of caution from Pakistan that the SAARC Charter should be expanded to discuss bilateral issues at the regional level.

There can be no development in the absence of peace, and there can be no peace, so long as political issues and disputes continue to fester. The tarnished legacy of mistrust, bitterness and tension should be put behind.

In the recently concluded 14th SAARC Summit in New Delhi, though Pakistan did not raise the bilateral issue directly, Pakistani Prime Minister talked about the importance of removing 'the trust deficit' that was hampering co-operation in the region. SAARC has a lot of potential, but dispute resolution is a must to realise this potential. Trade is linked to progress on that very core issue.

SAPTA to SAFTA

From SAPTA to SAFTA was a major step, which took nine years.

Though SAFTA was meant to be operational in 2001, there was a further five-year delay.

SAARC that rooms 20 per cent of the world's population holds only 1 per cent of the global trade volume, while its imports are limited to only 1.2 per cent. Trade within the region is less than two per cent of the GDP, in contrast to East Asia where it is 20 per cent and above.

The cost of trading across borders is probably the highest in the world. The dependence of the SAARC nations on the non-SAARC nations has gradually increased irrespective of growing export and import.

Poverty notwithstanding, countries in the region are growing at the rate of five per cent and more. Thus, the biggest task is to promote regional trade in the member countries.

The elimination of trade barriers between India and Pakistan could help to increase trade to more than US$ 6.5 billion while at present it is worth only around US$ 400 million. Estimated informal trade between the two countries, through West Asia, is US$ 2 billion.

Regional imbalances in agriculture and industry have also to be removed.

SAARC Investment

Promotion of an intra regional investment would be a blessing for many small countries like the Maldives. Establishment of regional stock exchanges and banks is a precondition for developing a global finance centre in the region.

Though the weaker economies like Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Maldives and Nepal have always expressed their fears that SAFTA will be very tough and challenging for them, this is not true. It is a win-win situation for all the member countries.

The experience of other trading blocs and free trade areas do not show that the bigger economies have all the share of the trade cake. There has been a notable increase in the level of India's trade with Sri Lanka following the free trade area.

Sri Lanka's exports to India rose by around 137 per cent in 2001, which encouraged Sri Lanka to negotiate with India the next generation of economic partnership with a focus on trade in services and investments in each other's countries.

SAFTA, a bold step forward in accelerating economic growth in the region aims at reducing the tariff rate in each member state below 0.5 per cent by 2016. The member countries have been divided into two groups - non-LDCs (India, Pakistan and Sri Lanka) and LDCs (Bangladesh, Bhutan, Nepal and Maldives).

The adoption of SAFTA for both groups of countries - seven years for the developing ones and 10 years for the least developed ones - would vastly help in bringing down the customs duties drastically, promoting cross-border investment and, more importantly, formalising the trade which now is happening through third countries and unauthorised routes.

India at the 14th SAARC Summit announced zero duty access for the weaker economies by 2008 as well as unilateral visa liberalisation. In this context, the member states, Nepal, in particular, should make rules and regulations compatible to trade and the customs tariff in the region.

Economic Growth

Taking SAFTA as an opportunity, Nepal should grab it to accelerate its economic growth. Tariff free access could significantly expand Nepal's exports and boost foreign direct investment in the country.

The extent of secondary benefits, if Nepal's bilateral agreement is integrated into SAFTA, will also be greater in terms of structural transformation, economies of scale and investment.

If foreign investment in the existing political crisis is not obstructed by restrictions and controls, capital will flow into Nepal as the low labour costs ensure high returns for investors.

Were domestic and foreign capital to be freed up from restrictions, regulations and taxes, then the country would have its investment needs fulfilled from the domestic, regional and global markets.

To reap maximum benefit from SAFTA, all the member countries of the region must carry out the necessary fiscal, monetary and trade reforms and work towards regional integration of their economies.

They should not be too sensitive to reducing the sensitive lists and must strive for trade facilitation measures, including banking facilitation, standards harmonisation and simplification of customs clearance. Integration amongst the countries in the region can provide room for the production of commodities at different stages.

In commodities like textiles, tea, jute, sugar and leather, the member countries can compete in the global market. The high quality cotton grown in Pakistan can be used to produce yarn in India, which, in turn, can be turned into finished fabric in Sri Lanka and Bangladesh.

Not only does this open up opportunities for intra-regional export and import but it also helps in setting up certain joint ventures, which can collectively take advantage of the entire South Asian and global markets. There are other sectors like tourism and information technology where South Asia can enjoy competitive advantages through a regional approach.

Partnership for prosperity

The 14th SAARC Summit, where the US, EU, Japan, China and South Korea participated as observers for the first time in its 22-year-old history, has with its 30-point declaration built a partnership for prosperity, working towards shared economic integration, regional prosperity, equitable distribution of the benefits and opportunities of integration, and a better life standard for the nations and their people.

Regionalism and economic integration should not isolate the weaker economies. Particular attention should be directed to the landlocked members' transit rights. The decision of the Standing Committee at the 14th SAARC Summit to develop multi-modal transport in the region will be an appropriate step in the right direction.

The SAARC nations historically suffer from two kinds of gaps - saving gaps arising out of saving investment imbalances and the foreign exchange gap as a result of the current account imbalance in the external sector. Financial co-operation among the SAARC nations can promote investment.

Liberalisation of rules and regulations for licensing and profit transfer facilities will promote external capital. Similarly, reform in the interest rate structure to ensure a positive return on investment will encourage investment and inflow of foreign capital.

Extension of banking facilities from one country to another and setting up of a SAARC Monetary Board will facilitate the extension of the capital market across the countries.

A regulated exchange rate under the board and monitoring with international financial centres and economic blocks like the EC will greatly benefit the SAARC nations. A single currency would enhance productivity and improve trade barriers.

In a nutshell, SAARC should emerge as a stronger region in the global platform. The region should not miss the bus of the benefits of an integrated economy.

Each one of us has to work out for ourselves within our countries and between our Governments.





