Sri Upananda Dharma Vidyalaya - A model

Branching off from the Colombo-Galle Highway, a few yards away from the Dehiwela Municipality, located in a central position in Dehiwela is the Pinwatta Purana Viharaya.

This Pinwatta Pin Bima as the name suggests is a well-known ancient temple rich in tradition making a valuable contribution to the people in and around Dehiwela, Buddhists in particular.

This Pin Bima is of special significance, as an ideal Dharma Vidyalaya attracting the young parents as a place for their offspring to be the correct citizen with excellent discipline.

This historic temple plays a vital role making a tremendous impact on our religious education today as an urgent need of the hour.

Conveniently located, as you enter through the solidly constructed arch-entrance, is the newly built Dharma Salawa replacing the old one, the foundation of which was laid by the late Venerable Kuruwita Padumasiri Thera whose far-sighted planning was backed by Venerable Walhaputenne Nandasumana Nayaka Thera serving Ananda College, Colombo, who went ahead with the completion of the building, for the best functioning of the Dharma Vidyalaya.

The annual prize-giving held in the above hall on 1st September 2007 was certainly a proud moment for all the participants who displayed their talents wonderfully.

The ceremony started with the talented compering student expressing his view that the pathway to their triumph was solely due to the dedication of the Nayaka Thera, his guidance, training and systematic and methodical way of doing things, the proper way.

This was well proved in the very important role played through an elaborate programme put into action in perfect order. The entire stage had been decorated, upholding simplicity with lotuses and punkalas according to tradition giving prominence to conventional religious ideas.

After the formal procedure of lighting the oil lamp, the welcome song was presented beautifully with meaningful words.

The Venerable Nandasumana Thera presented the Principal's report giving a detailed account, emphasising the services rendered to the pupils - the treasure of the nation, in Dhamma education inspiring them to a life-long love of learning.

Speeches and songs were presented by those who emerged winners at the competitions held in oratory and recitation. They did perfectly fine.

They exhibited their talents presenting songs of Nanda Malini and Victor Ratnayaka in thier wonderful performance, emphasising Buddhist culture and moral values. A novel feature to be admired was the speeches presented in the most appealing manner.

The audience mostly parents watched their children with appreciation.

Venerable Maussagolle Lankananda Thera speaking on the occasion described the services rendered by providing Dharmalokya and Pragnalokaya in the best possible way.

He said the name and fame of the Dhamma school has spread everywhere so much so that out of the 28 Dhamma schools in the provincial council area it ranks best among the best performing few schools.

The Chief Guest Sarath Weerasekera, Director General of Civil Defence Sri Lanka, in his eloquent meaningful lengthy speech stressed the benefits of Dhamma education with examples and the deep involvement in religious affairs will make them disciplined leaders and worthy citizens.

The kids seated in front very attentively will hold fond memories leading them to be true Buddhists. The most Venerable Pitiduwe Dhammika Thera in his Anusasana focusing his attention on how Dhamma is being encouraged by this prestigious institution. Marvelled at the distinguished service rendered.

Finally a rain of thanks and blessings were showered on the deserving by the Head Prefect. The programme came to an end with the distribution of prizes.





