Sankara and Samanala Thatu win international awards

Sankara won a special Jury award at the 'Silk Road' Cinema Festival held in Turkey while Samanala Thatu clinched the award of the Silver Elephant in the category for the best Asian film at the 15th Golden Elephant International Youth Cinema Festival held in Hidrabad, India.

Both films have been highly praised in several international cinema festivals in the past.

Hrithik and Ash back on screen with Jodha Akbar

It took Ashutosh Gowariker nearly six years of planning to bring to life one of the most anticipated movies of all time, Jodha Akbar. The film brings back the irresistible partnership of Aishwarya Rai and Hrithik Roshan on to the sets after their charm opposite each other in Doom 2. Jodha Akbar tells the love story between Mughal Emperor, Akbar and Rajput princess, Jodha bai. Akbar and Jodha bai's marriage was a political alliance. They got married first and then knew each other and fell in love. This custom is still in vogue in the Indian subcontinent. Couples first get married and then they know each other.

Though Ashutosh is saying that he has done extensive research on the story, the Rajput community of Rajasthan accused him of distorting history. However Ashutosh was adamant in his position. His claim is that he did not distort any history and he has no intention to ridicule any person or community.

According to Gowariker, his Oscar nominated Lagaan was a period movie but Jodha Akbar is a historical movie. Here are a few extracts taken from interviews with the director:

Do you think the star presence will overshadow the film?

When you see the film you'll forget that you're watching Hrithik and Aishwarya onscreen. You will only keep Jodha and Akbar in mind. When I imagined the story what came to me easily is the cast, I knew Hrithik would be right as Akbar, and Aishwarya would be perfect as Jodha. I approached both of them keeping only them in mind. So we called them and did a make up test and they were perfect for the roles. Thankfully they've been very dedicated to us.

You've shown a preference for making period films, why is that?

It's not a preference, but something that has just happened. When I make films I never keep in mind that I'm going to make a period film or a historic film.

Do you think such films work well with Indian audiences?

I don't believe that only particular kind of films work or don't work with Indian audiences. What it boils down to is the story of the film. When a film doesn't work out a filmmaker definitely has to go back and analyse what didn't work. But this shouldn't influence his next film. The most important factor in this retrospection should be 'what went right' though.

It's said that the Rajput community has taken offense to their portrayal. True?

I've never felt that the portrayal of Rajputs was shown incorrectly. There is no outlandish message or jingoism in my film. Deep research has been carried out so that no one feels offended. I've taken great care to make a clean film.

Are you using authentic jewellery of the Mughal period?

Yes, we're recreating the authentic jewellery of that period based on the miniature paintings of Rajasthan. Jodhaa and Akbar's jewellery has to look as it did in that era. Today's jewellery is cut in a different way. We had several designers on the job. And Neeta Lulla has designed the whole cast's look - Hrithik, Aishwarya and the soldiers.

There's a growing feeling that costume dramas don't work at the box office.

To me the period is not relevant. The story has to connect with me emotionally, romantically and dramatically. Besides, how many films set in the present times work? So, if I've to fail, I might as well do so while doing what I want to do.





