A project she is very much bent on may be achieved soon – which is holding a festival of old Sri Lankan movies in Paris. Her next historical novel will be located in Macao and backed by research on the first Portuguese in Sri Lanka and Goa, assessing the historical presence of Portuguese in all Asia.

Catherine is cosmopolitan to the very last letter of the word, being born of a Russian mother and a Portuguese-Dutch father.

She is married to Marc Menguy, a retired Ambassador of France in Asia. She has spent twenty years in Asian countries - China, Indonesia, Laos, Singapore and Vietnam, being a freelance reporter for magazines Elle, Marie Claire, Realities and France Soir. Her career began as an assistant to Henri Langlois, the famous French Cinematheque Director, who sent her to America.

Catherine returned with her first book titled 'Drole d' Amerique' (Phoney America) published by Albin Michel.

She moved on to Asia, becoming a feature journalist.

Catherine van Moppes. Pictures by Ruwan de Silva

Catherine authored another book 'A Chacun Sa Chine' (Everyone has his own China), again published by Albin Michel, when she was sent to Peking by Director of France Soir, Pierre Lazareff.

She also produced a TV documentary on everyday life in China and sold around the world photos and reports of different aspects of the Chinese cultural revolution.

She generated more photos and reports when sent to Vietnam and Laos after the American war.Catherine's main interest lies in the new generations of women, acquiring freedom on gaining education and employing themselves.

She concentrates on such systems of education as part of traditions and values that pervade up to adaptation of these women to various forms of environment and social changes.

Catherine has focused the last ten years on India and Sri Lanka in a website named 'Sources d'Asie' with interviews, culture, dance, art and special itineraries.

Each year, she is invited to the Chennai Music and Dance Festival. She is now engaged in producing a TV documentary with Alarmel Valli, the great Baratha Natyam dancer, in the backdrop of how values of traditions and modernity is connected with this sophisticated South Indian dance.





