Extensive promotion in India is need of the hour

The Pacific Asia Travel Association report titled - India Outbound Tourism 2009 - A Snap Shot offers much food for thought for Sri Lanka Tourism in their efforts to promote the Indian market.

The outbound movement from India that had crossed across her national frontier had been over 10 million in 2008. This is expected to grow in spite of the global macro economic factors that contracted travel in big numbers in other countries.

Devotees attending Ramayana function in Colombo

The reasonable economic growth and stability of Indian economy will support the outbound travel while the 'need to travel' factor remaining constant or growing.

That is something Sri Lanka needs to be conscious of, taking into consideration that 4.2 million Indians travelled to Asia Pacific destinations and 247,000 opted to only south Asia under which Nepal and Sri Lanka are leading the list.

The potential to divert traffic from the Far East, the main destinations for Indian is a challenge that can be taken should Indian is considered seriously with a realistic view.

India is a huge market from where many destinations are trying to get a reasonable share. For the Sri Lanka, the surge began a few years ago with the removal of prior visa requirements for holidaymakers and timely packages offered by the Industry with National carrier SriLankan Airlines. The subsequent events such as Travel Mart, TAAI, etc. boosted the arrivals thereafter.

The drop in arrivals recorded thereafter was due to obvious reasons until the conflict ended in May last year and it is time to activate all plans for India to create more awareness of the locations and products, arouse interest among potential visitors and enable industry to establish contacts and strengthen relationship with existing business partners in India.

Sri Lanka which hosted over 100,000 visitors from India had to be content with 85,000 in 2008. The peace halted the drop after May and the 2009 figure would keep the arrivals at same levels with the increases in arrivals after May.

In December 2009 alone, there has been a sharp increase of Indian arrivals by nearly 50 percent, i.e., 10,418 as against 6,962 in the same period in 2008. This is a clear indication of the potential in this market which needs to be promoted heavily with adequate resources.

The promotions being carried out to take various forms taking into consideration the target audiences, viz., the travellers/holidaymakers, tour operators and travel agents, Corporates and Institutions and Associations.

The geographic locations need to be covered from main to tier two cities. While the previous activities took place in New Delhi, Mumbai, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Chennai, the need calls for extending these promotional activities to tier two cities, viz, Pune, Jaipur, Lucknow, etc. There are many influential travellers, and Corporates in these cities who could be reached out when the promotions take place in their own cities.

Sri Lanka profile with diversity in compactness and diversity of locations for Meetings and Incentives is a unique characteristic and strength that is communicated through these promotions.

Colombo was the main attraction for meetings with shopping facilities and corporates are now opting for new locations where Sri Lanka could capitalize on Beach, Heritage and up country locations.

The connectivity was throughout assured by SriLankan Airlines by having regular flights to all major cities and it is likely that SriLankan will consider increasing frequencies and operating to other cities should the promotions bring in desired results.

SriLankan Airline offices in India made a tireless effort in organizing events in 2009 without which the current success rate would not have been possible. Sri Lanka continues to remain a value destination and venue for Indian visitors and Corporates.

For instance, the cost factor compared to having meetings in Indian cities in 5 star hotels with domestic air travel, Sri Lanka could well be competitive while offering Indians an opportunity for an 'international visit'.

The lack of entertainment and night life compared to Singapore and Thailand is a matter in serious consideration with Tourism Authorities. However, at the time of writing this article, there were two major contingents each over 500, visiting Ramayana sites and attending Ramayana Conference. Ramayana dance drama that was choreographed specially for Sri Lanka Convention Bureau (SLCB) by Kalasuri Arunthathy Sri Ranganathan enthralled the audience. SLCB's decision to support Ramayana visits that was spearheaded by the Tourism Development Authority is paying off today.

The only hurdle is the infrastructure and products in the vicinity of Ramayana sites that require extra logistics to handle such large groups.

In spite of these, every member was jubilant over the opportunity to visit these sacred sites and hospitality received from Sri Lankans.

Unlike the long haul markets, analyzing the profile and behavioural patterns of Indian traveller is easier. In fact reports such as PATA Snap shot offers very clear statistics that would enable us to plan which markets to tap and where to locate them and whom to compete within India.

Ramayana was one example. Smaller meetings for high-end delegates like Board meetings is another. Options are many, hence the need to focus the promotions for identified target audiences.





