Akzo Nobel unveils colour of the year 2010

AkzoNobel Paints Lanka (Pvt) Limited, recently unveiled the Colour of the Year for 2010 and contemporary colour trends to a gathering of eminent design experts, architects and colour professionals.

Akzo Nobel Paints Lanka, a member of CIC Group and the supplier of Sri Lanka's leading decorative paint brand Dulux, is the local arm of Amsterdam based AkzoNobel, the world's leader in paints and coatings.

The colour trends presented by AkzoNobel for 2010 are a part of the company's Colour FuturesTM, which is resulted from an ongoing worldwide colour trend research, forecasting and development efforts of the company.

"Forecasting colour trends are not an exact science. But since 2004 AkzoNobel has been correctly predicting the colour trends", the Managing Director / CEO of AkzoNobel Paints Lanka (Private) Limited Gerald De Saram said.

"Our business is not about producing the most number of colours. It's about understanding the contemporary public moods, providing them with colours that resonate with their evolving preference and helping people to use colours creatively and confidently to express their individuality", De Saram stated.

Explaining the annual process of colour forecasting, De Saram said that the aesthetic centre of AkzoNobel based in the Netherlands, brings together creative experts from around the world to extensively examine developments in fashion, architecture, art, design, technology and popular culture.

The team then produces a comprehensive, global colour trends forecast which AkzoNobel publishes each year as "Colour Futures TM." Global in scope, "Colour Futures TM" provides consumers and professionals with international style and design trends for interior and exterior, translated into colour trend palettes.

The "Colour Futures TM" presents one overriding message and five trend related themes.

Every theme is translated into a contemporary colour palette. From these palettes the colour that best represents the prevailing mood and fashion of the time on colour is selected as the Colour of the Year.

AkzoNobel has predicted that "reclamation" would be the primary influencing factor of colour trends in 2010.

People around the world would desire to reclaim control in the current economic and environmental upheaval, to reclaim a sense of what is true and can be trusted, to reclaim a space for oneself in an ever changing world and taking the opportunity to re-establish new values going forward they built on solid traditions or new horizons.





