Govt will act in the best interest of the people - Minister Sirisena

Rohan MATHES

Agriculture Development Minister and SLFP General Secretary Maithripala Sirisena said the Government will take all measures and act in the best interest of people in all spheres, inclusive of their security and alleviating the cost of living burden.

Sirisena gave this assurance when he addressed the weekly Cabinet press briefing in Parliament yesterday.

He said the Government had a clear vision and a mission to accomplish even amidst the present conflict. While combatting terrorism in all its manifestations, the Government will leave no stone unturned, to grant relief and ease the soaring 'Cost of Living' burden on the masses, the Minister said.

Sirisena said while the Government has crippled the LTTE in the battlefield following a spate of military victories, the Opposition UNP, after the slaying of their Parliamentarian T. Maheswaran on January 1, is acting and behaving in a bizarre manner to strengthen the LTTE internationally. "This is a death-blow to democracy," he said.

"With the sole intention of coming into power, the UNP is slanderously alleging that the Government's provision of security to Opposition members was inadequate and that resulted in the assassination of Maheswaran.

The killing of Minister D.M. Dassanayake in Ja-ela, the blast in Slave Island, and the series of atrocities committed by the LTTE in the past, amply demonstrates the LTTE idealogy and its thirst for blood, regardless of whether the target is Government or UNP members," he said.

The Minister said the UNP is striving to show that the escalation of violence of the LTTE has a direct bearing to the abrogation of the Ceasefire Agreement (CFA).

"We strongly denounce this bizarre behaviour of the UNP," the Minister added. Deputy Finance Minister Ranjith Siyambalapitiya said the National Development Exhibition Deyata Kirula will be held from February 4 to 10, at the BMICH in Colombo.

The Deyata Kirula Exhibition is Sri Lanka's major annual exposition intended to showcase Sri Lanka to the entire world, as a promising proposition for investment.

The exhibition will attract over four million visitors this year and would offer a comprehensive insight into the advances made in health, education, hospitality industry, construction, apparel, agriculture and irrigation, transportation, infrastructure development, environment, food and technology, by private and public sectors, Siyambalapitiya said.





