This was to support the consecration of sand dunes, lagoons, flora and fauna and the prevention of coastal resources from over exploitation by human beings. NORAD provided a grant of 100 million rupees for this project.

Norad provided a grant of 3 million rupees to Hambantota District Chamber of Commerce to commission a feasibility study to identify various aspects involved in setting up the fund.

Hambantota was the first district where Norway started development co-operation outside Colombo.

CASP promotes potato cultivation in Ampara

Potato Cultivation has been given a pride of place in CASP's Canadian Agro Sustainability Partnership development activities envisaged for the Ampara District this year and all arrangements in these connections are afoot.

On the advice of CASP's President Douglas Mac Arthur and the support given by CIDA CASP's Potato Specialist MIM Nazeer has undertaken this project in Alayadivembu, Wangamam, Padiyathalawa, Safa Nagar, Kuduvil, Sammanthurai, Barakath Nagar and Weheragama covering all three communities and a hive of activity is going on at present.

Potato Specialist Nazeer who holds responsible for successful potato cultivation last year witnessed by Minister Ferial Ashraff has been visiting the potato cultivators and providing them with all assistance and giving them the technical know how.

The CASP is a leading Organisation to mobilise and co-ordinate Canadian interests and expertise in International sustainable agriculture.

Nayaka Thera leaves for Thaiwan

Ven. Dr. Kanumuldeniye Sri Dharmashoka Nayaka Thera, Viharadhipathi of Nava Polonnaru Gal Viharaya, Dehiwala and the President of the International Vihara Foundation left for Thaiwan recently to attend the first Executive Committee Meeting of the eighth World Buddhist Sangha Council in Kaoshiung city from January 5 to 9. He is due to make a religious tour to Singapore and Thailand.

Colombo Bishop condemns killing and bomb attack

Colombo Bishop Rt. Rev Duleep Chickera in a release vehemently condemened the assassination of Colombo District UNP parliamentarian T. Maheswaran and his bodyguard and the bomb explosion at Slave Island that killed five persons including two children and a mother.





