YMCA weightlifters make a clean sweep

S. M. Jiffrey ABDEEN, Kandy sports corr.

The weightlifters from the Kandy Young Men's Christian Association (YMCA) once again underlined their supremacy in the 'iron sports' when they made a clean sweep of all the titles at the 42nd Senior Weight Lifting Nationals organised by the Sri Lanka Weight Lifting Federation and held at the Gymnasium of the University of Kelaniya in Dalugama.

They won the Championship for Women and Men and also the Overall Championship title which was on offer for the first time. The weightlifters coached by Athula Wijewickrema won 7 golds, 2 silver and 1 bronze.

The table of points went as follows:

Men's Championship: Kandy YMCA - 24 points.

Runners up: SL Army 12 points.

Women's Championship: Champions - Kandy YMCA 18 points.

Runners up: Shakthi SC Wadduwa - 08 points

Overall Champions: Kandy YMCA 42 points.

Runners up: SL Army 12 points.

Winning medals in the men's category for Kandy YMCA were:

P. K. N. Dayan (Gold)

D. K. Ransilu Jayatilleke (Gold)

R. M. P. S. Wijeratne (Gold)

W. P. G. D. C. Jayawickreme (Gold)

K. K. Asanga (Silver)

T. C. J. N. Perera (Bronze)

In the category for women the medal winners were:

J. N. Nadini Gunasekera (Gold)

L. G. A. Vinodani (Gold)

M. M. Dammika Harischandra (Gold)

T. M. C. Rasanjali (Silver)

Nadini Gunasekera who is ranked 10th in the world in her body weight category established three Sri Lanka records by huge margins.

Snatch 74 kilogrames.

Clean and Jerk - 86 kilogrames.

Total 160 kilogrames.

Nadini Gunasekera was also adjudged the Best Lifter.

The star of the meet without any doubt was 21-year-old Ransilu Jayatilleke when he established two Sri Lanka records and also etched himself into the record books as the first weightlifter from Sri Lanka to break the total of 300 kilogrames barrier. He also set up two Sri Lanka records.

Clean and Jerk - 168 kgs.

Total - 300 kgs.

The coach Athula Wijewickrema keeps them in fine fettle. There is plenty of guidance and encouragement from the General Secretary Russel Ebert, Co-ordinating Secretary - S. A. Wijewickrema and the Head of the Physical Department David Edirisinghe.





