Kandy district Development

Kandy is the magnificent capital of the historical upcountry (the Kanda Udarata). Kandy district is also the birth place of many patriots who sacrificed their precious life for the sake of the nation. People of the upcountry who were born in such a City are indeed a blessed lot.

It was in the last four years that several development projects uplifting the life of people in the district were implemented, multiplying this blessedness of the City in many folds.

Kandy-Pallekele Development

The government started reconstruction of the Kandy Prison-Pallekele road last year. The estimated cost of this project is Rs. 1517 million and it is a joint venture of Commissioner of Prisons Department and State Engineering Corporation. Work on 25% of the project has been completed and in the year 2009 the government has spent Rs 407.5 million in this regard.

Several housing projects implemented for rural community

In addition to the aforementioned road developments, work on other roads relating to Provincial Development projects are nearing completion.

The total length of the district's road structure amounts to 716.43 km. The district's roads being administered by 3 Executive Engineering Divisions include 180.31 km of Grade A roads.

Development of these roads is being carried out by Kadugannawa and Kundasale Engineering Divisions. Basically 5 main objectives are taken into consideration in developing

the district's roads. These are: minimizing the traffic congestion, Nawalapitiya road development, development of other roads in the district, building bridges and construction of new roads. These projects have been categorized as long term and short term projects. Under short term projects, in order to renovate the access roads, a stretch of 15 km on the Colombo Kandy road from Kadugannawa to Kandy Clock Tower has already been completed at a cost of Rs. 85.9 million. From Kandy to Weera Madduma Bandara junction of the Lake Circle of the Sangaraja Mawatha, a stretch of 2.6 km has been completed at a cost of Rs. 135 million. 3 km stretch of Deltota-Kirillagasgoda road upto Ramanadan Hall was carpeted at a cost of Rs.72.62 million. 8.5 km of Mahiyangana-Diyatalawa road upto Digana was completed at a cost of Rs. 204.75 million. 3.9 km of Kandy-Jaffna A-9 road upto Katugastota was completed by the Provincial Road Development Authority at as cost of Rs.178.49 million. In parallel to the development of access roads within the City which was started as Short Term Projects, Sambodhi Mawatha, Suduhumpola Mawatha, Sri Wickrama Rajasingha Mawatha,

Alternative roads

S.W.R.D.Bandaranaike Mawatha, Gamini Dissanayake Mawatha, Asgiri Mawatha, Lamagaraya Mawatha, Keppitipola Mawatha, and Muslim Mosque Road are being renovated at a cost of Rs. 112.86 million. The total length of these roads amounts to 5 km.

Boom in electricity supply and irrigation

Under renovation of alternative roads and development of junctions started as short term projects, Luis Peiris Mawatha, 2nd Rajasinghe Mawatha, Kuda Ratwatte Mawatha, Boowelikada-Lewella, 2nd stage of Dharmashoka-Lewella, Tennekumbura, Boowelikada, Bogambara, junction in front of Kandy Railway Station, the government spent nearly Rs. 50 million.

Overhead bridges for passenger crossing Construction of these bridges is also a step taken under short term project of Kandy City Development. Accordingly work on the construction of the overhead bridge across the railway track near Courts Complex joining Sirimavo Bandaranaike Mawatha and William

Gopallawa Mawatha, the overhead bridge in front of Good Shephards' Convent, the overhead bridge upto Ladies Higher College, the overhead bridge in front of Road Development worksite at William Gopallawa Mawatha was completed by the Government at a cost of Rs. 55.48 million. In addition to this the government has also allocated Rs. 7.67 million for construction of an overhead bridge in front of Mahamaya Balika Vidyalaya.

Out of the short term projects and the long term projects planned simoultaneously, work on some projects has already been started. These projects relating to development of access roads are: Expansion of Peradeniya-Getambe road upto 4 carriage ways; expansion of Kandy-Katugastota road upto 4 carriage ways including the Mahayyawa Tunnel; and expansion of the A-1 road from the Ladies Higher College upto Clock Tower. The government's expenditure for these work amounts to Rs. 1,988.24 Renovation of alternative roads, construction of underpasses and overhead bridges are also being done under the long term projects. Accordingly, the government has decided to renovate the underpasses in front of the Clock Tower, Children's Park, and the one in front of the hospital. The government also spent Rs. 1,191.49 million for the development of Katugastota-Kurunegala A-10 road, Katugastota-Wattegama road, Galagedera-Rambukkana road, and Aladeniya-Eeriyagama road.

Building of Bridges

During the last four years, construction of bridges in parallel to road development was given a prominent place in the Kandy District. Building of a bridge across the river Mahaweli on Gampola-Nuwara Eliya road, Getambe bridge on Getambe-Gannoruwa road, Katugastota bridge on Kandy-Jaffna road, Ulapane bridge on Ulapane-Pussellawa road take a prime place.

The cost involved was Rs. 500 million for Gampola bridge, Rs. 90 million for the Getambe bridge, Rs. 400 million for Katugastota bridge, and Rs. 75 million for the Ulapane bridge. Construction work on the proposed Ambuwawa-Ganetenna road has already been started and upon completion of this road, a short access road from Colomb-Gampola will become operational.

In addition to all these road work, the Japanese Government has provided assistance of Rs. 1165 through the Bank of Japan for the modernization of roads in the province. Meanwhile the government has allocated Rs. 87 million for construction of 8 overhead bridges. Work on 4 bridges has already been completed. The other 4 bridges will be constructed near Kingswood College, near Gas Filling Station, near Sitadevi Vidyalaya and near Swarnamalee Vidyalaya. These projects are

implemented by the Road Development Authority. The Hill-country Kingdom on the path to future prosperity.

The information technology helps massively for the development of a country. Among the projects that were implemented in the country for the development of information technology in the country, includes the project being implemented in Kandy for the construction of an information technology Institute and an Information Technology Library. The project which was started in 2007 was scheduled to be

completed this year. This project costing a sum of Rs. 200 million with government funds is being implemented by the Chief Ministry of the Central Province. The Central Province Provincial Council did not have an administrative building and since the Provincial Administrative Building is being constructed in Pallekalle at a cost of Rs. 919 million. This construction work which was started in 2007 is in the last leg at present.

Development of Sports

It is the government policy to build a healthy and active young population through development of Sports. Deegana Sports Complex fulfills the aspirations of the people of Kandy district in this field. Construction of the first phase of this sports complex was started in 2006 at a cost of Rs. 113.1 million and the second phase was started in 2008 with government allocation amounting to Rs. 71.93 million. The Industrial Unit of the Central Provincial Council hopes to complete the entire complex by the year 2012. The estimated cost for the second phase of the project is Rs. 443 million.

Water Supply and Health Care Schemes

Water is an essential prerequisite for men, plants and animals. It was during the last four years that the government paid its keen attention to start water supply schemes throughout the country. The Kandy district water supply projects were commenced under four phases and the work on the final phase is currently underway. There are 104 water supply schemes implemented in the district to cater to 43,937

households covering in 181 Divisions under 24 District Development Secretariat Divisions. These 104 water supply projects implemented at a cost of Rs. 507.04 million also indirectly helps over 2000 families. For the 2nd stage of the water supply projects in the district implemented by the Water Supply Board, the government has spent Rs. 1118 million. For the Kandy South Water Supply Scheme implemented by the Water and Drainage Board, the government spent a sum of Rs. 1845

million. Also, for the second community water supply and healthcare project, 71% of work of which has already been completed, is being done at an initial cost of Rs. 663.92 million. 75% of work on the waste water projects commenced with government allocation amounting to Rs. 203 million has been completed. Construction of latrines for 2833 families in 11 District Development Secretariat Divisions was carried out during the last 4 years.

Another Health Care Project implemented under Mahinda Chintanaya was provision of Rain Water Collection Pots. Under this scheme the government spent Rs. 40 million for 1491 units in the Divisional Development Secretariat Divisions of Udu Dumbara, Patha Dumbara, Akurana, Panwila, Deltota, Patha Hewaheta, and Minipe.





