Incidentally the selectors were given another extension by Minister Gamini Lokuge. Lokuge did right in giving them another innings.

Chopping and changing selectors will not do the cricketers and the selectors any good. Selectors like the cricketers must be given continuity. It is only then that they can settle into their job and deliver.

The selectors have all been top class cricketers during their time and their credentials cannot be challenged. De Mel was a fast bowling all-rounder. Anurasiri a tantalising left arm leg spinner. Madurasinghe a clever off spinner and Seneviratne a stylish middle order batsman.

On de Mel and I won't forget the blistering century he hammered in a Gopalan Trophy match at the Colombo Oval coming late in the order. That century would rank with one of the best three figure scores made at the Oval. He just made mincemeat of the visitors attack.

Best Of Their Ability

Selectors do an unenviable job in any sport. They are never into a popularity poll. However good the selections they make, critics would always find fault with the selections however good and done to the best of their ability.

When critics take them to task, the selectors must take the criticism in the spirit in which it is made, because critics too are doing a job of work. It is the chairman's job to be always available to the media and answer queries and questions posed and not dodge them.

He must always endeavour to build a good rapport with the media. And to the credit of the national selectors, it must be said that they have done a lot to the best of their ability.

To Dilshan and probably his inconsistency would have prompted the selectors to keep him out of the one-dayers in Bangladesh. But like I said in my 'Sportscope' column in the 'Sunday Observer'. I would play him in my team for his fielding alone. He is easily the best fielder in the Sri Lanka team.

And all forms of the game requires that one's fielding must be excellent. That is why it is said that catches win matches. A brilliant fielder is worth his weight in gold.

Now that the selectors have reposed their confidence and plonked him for the one-dayers in Pakistan, it is for Dilshan to deliver and not cement, but concrete his place in Tests, one-dayers and Twenty 20s.

English cricket in a crisis

England did the greatest service when they introduced the time honoured and revered game called cricket, which is now one of the greatest attractions in sport.

When the game was its embryo stage, it was the Englishmen who dominated it and all other countries had to play second fiddle to them. They jealously guarded its traditions, gave it life and continuity and several other countries took to the game and today it is flourishing and has been commercialised.

But now English cricket is not what it should have been. They have lost their stranglehold on the game and it is the other countries who have to show them how to play and also win.

The latest virus to hit their game is the tiff between captain Kevin Pietersen and coach Peter Moores, which has led to both losing their jobs and putting their game in a crisis.

Obviously Pietersen from the time he was entrusted the captaincy and coach Moores did not see eye to eye, probably agreeing to disagree most of the time and finally the bubble burst with Pietersen resigning and Moores being bowled by the England and Wales Cricket Board.

As for us, not only what has happened between Pietersen and Moores, but if this same problem crops in any other country we will side with the captain. It is the captain who matters and not the coach.

The ECB instead of supporting the captain, seem to have veered which has led to Pietersen quitting his job which he seemed to be adjusting into well. Pietersen would have taken this decision with the utmost reluctance, because it was obvious that he could not continue with a coach who was not to his liking.

Sad to think that a crisis has erupted in English cricket what with only a short time for the all-important and fiercely contested Ashes series in England against Australia.

Team Support

It was also reported that there had been splits in the team. If that is true then there was no way that Pietersen could have led with success. For a captain to succeed he must have 100 per cent and more from his team mates. Not to have that all important team support would be to court disaster and suffer defeat at every turn.

But it was heartening to note that Pietersen had promised to give his best under new skipper Andrew Strauss. Strauss too like Pietersen is South African born and it is hoped that things would get better for the Englishmen with Strauss taking over the all important job of captain.

How the Englishmen would fare under Strauss in the Caribbean would give an indication as to what lies ahead. Failure in the Caribbean could prove disastrous in their attempt to win back the Ashes that they lost so disgracefully 5-0 in Australia last time round.

As for the Aussies they must be wishing that English cricket disintegrates further.





