2008: Year of the Rat

The year 2008 has just dawned with hope. The New Year is the Year of the Rat, according to the Chinese Zodiac.

First in the cycle, the Rat begins the zodiac sequence and recurs every twelfth year. Unlike the other 12 animals on the Chinese zodiac, rats are usually associated with a negative image for spreading diseases and stealing grain.

So it was a custom to eradicate disease and catch rats at the beginning of each year in the past.

"In Korean history, rats were often described as sinister creatures that stole grain and spread infectious diseases,'' said Kim Yoon-jeoung, a curator of the National Folk Museum of Korea.

But Korean ancestors found something different in the animals. The rat symbolized clairvoyance, fertility, diligence and good fortune.

So those who are born in the Year of the Rat are destined to have good fortune and are blessed with things to eat, according to the museum.

The productivity of rats come from their vigorous breeding capability.

Also, "Samgukyusa,'' the late 13th century history book, describes rats as productive animals as they can give birth to 30-60 offspring a year.

Rats are harmful to people's daily lives, but in traditional folk belief they are regarded as divine-spirited because of their basic instinct to detect danger.

They are even portrayed in films as the first creatures to sense and evacuate in a large groups from dangerous situations such as the natural disasters caused by earthquakes and volcanic eruptions.

"Samguksagi,'' or The History of the Three Kingdoms, shows that during the reign of King Hyegong of the Silla Kingdom, there was no snow that year after people observed about 8,000 rats making a mass exodus from Wonju, Gangwon Province.

"Traditionally, rats were believed to be clever enough to remember a path they once took up to six months later. They were also thought of as a creature with the prophetic ability to recognize imminent danger,'' said Kim.

Kim explained that as for rituals related to rats, Korean ancestors customarily performed a traditional play known as ``Jwibulnori.'' People burn the dry grass on ridges between rice fields while children enjoy whirling around perforated cans filled with burning charcoal. The purpose of this custom was to kill the rats living in holes and to exterminate the insects infesting the dry fields.

According to the Chinese philosophy, rats are strongly associated with material success such as wealth and other luxuries in life. Rats are seen as leaders, pioneers and conquerors. They are charming, passionate, charismatic, practical and hardworking.

Also, those who are born in the year of the rat are believed to be endowed with leadership skills.

They are also thought to be quick and energetic, easily adapting themselves to different situations. They are sometimes portrayed as versatile creatures and can usually overcome most obstacles.

Unlike most of other zodiac signs, rats believe in a relationship with just a handful of friends, but they have special bond with them.

In addition, they are tactful and can go to great extents to win a battle or game. Chinese sages say rats observe self-control and are considerate while dealing with people around them.

They are also regarded as intelligent and cunning rodents. But rats are usually exclusive, selective, obstinate and sometimes controlling.

Whether these traits are true or not, let's hope the year 2008 becomes the harbinger of health, wealth and good fortune.





