SAARC Chamber identifies areas for research

The SAARC (South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation) Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SCCI) has identified the major areas for research that include trade facilitation and tariffs, tourism, finance, monetary policies and common stock exchanges, infrastructure, agriculture and livestock, investment destinations.

The Chambers of member countries have been assigned separate tasks in this regard, the SCCI President told APP.

Pakistan, Sri Lanka, India, Bangladesh, Nepal are among these members.

Tariq Sayeed, a leading business man from Pakistan who has represented the country on various regional and international economic fora for last couple of decades, has been recently elected as President SAARC Chamber for the years 2008 and 2009 on Pakistan's turn after 14 years.

Iftikhar Ali Malik has been picked as Vice President SCCI from Pakistan. Sayeed elaborated his programme to enhance the SCCI's role for the mutual benefit of all the member states. He said trade facilitation and tariffs sector has been assigned to Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry.

Tourism has been assigned to the Federation of Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Sri Lanka, whereas finance and monetary policy and Common Stock Exchange assigned to the Federation of Pakistan Chamber of Commerce and Industry.

Federation of Bangladesh Chamber of Commerce and Industry has been given the task to work on agriculture and livestock sector, and the Federation of Nepalese Chamber of Commerce and Industry would make detailed studies and research on investment destinations in the SAARC region, he said.

The SCCI Chief informed that member Federations/Chambers in SAARC countries would submit to SCCI their finalised action plans to formulate a strategy on the specific themes of interest and importance for the private sector in the member states.

Tariq Sayeed also spelled out the approved plan of SCCI activities in 2008 for next six months which comprised of SCCI networking reception with foreign diplomats in Islamabad during February 2008, a SCCI delegation led by him would call on Pakistan's President, Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister in Islamabad.

The plan includes a call on the Secretary General SAARC, call on the Prime Minister, Foreign and Commerce Ministers of Nepal in Kathmandu in March 2008, holding a seminar in Lahore on economic freedom and SAFTA. Besides, a workshop on trade facilitation : ATA Carnet System in Colombo and SAARC Chamber participation in EXPO-Asia would be held on 5-7 July, 2008 in Karachi.

He said the construction of SCCI's Secretariat building in Islamabad is also on his agenda.





