Human resource development in the chemical sciences

Dr. J.N. Oleap Fernando

(Honorary Dean of the College of Chemical Sciences, Institute of Chemistry Ceylon and Retired Senior Professor of Chemistry, The Open University of Sri Lanka)

The huge contribution that could be made with no expenditure whatsoever to the national coffers through the efforts of professional bodies has once again come into the limelight through the recent news that as many as ninety-two Graduate Chemists have passed out from the high quality and highly popular four year Graduateship program conducted by the College of Chemical Sciences.

These successful graduates will be conferred Graduate Chemist designation and admitted as members of the Institute of Chemistry Ceylon at the next Convocation to be held on 22 January 2010 with Distinguished Chemist Vidya Jyothi R.O.B. Wijesekera as Chief Guest.

The College of Chemical Sciences, which is the educational arm of the Institute of Chemistry Ceylon, commenced this Graduateship program in Chemistry at an academic level equivalent to the BSc Special Degree in Chemistry offered by any recognized University in 1979.

The objective of this body of Sri Lanka's Chartered Chemists was to provide an alternate pathway to adults, those already employed particularly at a middle/technician level, late developers as well as school leavers to pursue a professional tertiary level program in Chemistry by making use of the expertise possessed within its membership.

It was recognized that Sri Lanka's production of about 50 special degree Graduate Chemists at that time from the four Universities of Colombo, Peradeniya, Jaffna and Sri Jayawardenapura was woefully inadequate to meet Sri Lanka's growing manpower needs of Chemists for national development.

The program was thus commenced in a very humble manner three decades ago making use of the available chemistry qualified manpower in the Universities, research institutes, service institutions and industry with no external financial support from the Government or any other body. We were thus able to provide our students with academic instruction from the best possible experts available for the purpose within Sri Lanka.

However, we had to depend solely on the fees collected from students in order to meet the essential expenditure of this tertiary program.

The quality of the program was maintained at the required high level from the very start, inter alia, through the very extensive and serious moderation of our question papers and re-marking of answer scripts by external examiners appointed from amongst UK academics on the recommendation of our sister body there, the Royal Society of Chemistry, UK.

We are proud to record that our unique and pioneering endeavour has gone from strength to strength and today it has grown in stature, recognition, importance and in all other possible ways to become a program which has through its 27 successful batch produced as many as 92 Graduate Chemists, which probably equals the total production from the six Sri Lankan Universities offering the Special degree program.

Our program which graduated a mere 4 Graduate Chemists through our first batch in 1983/84 has now produced, through 27 batches in three decades, as many as 673 Graduate Chemists, more than half of whom have passed out over the past 8 years.

This exponential rise in numbers passing out has been largely due to the ability of our Institute to provide a much better service to our students through the provision of a well equipped air- conditioned library, increasing numbers of academic and academic support staff, tailor-making the program, curriculum and structure to meet modern day needs and of course, our shift five years ago to our own premises at Adamantane House at 341/22, Kotte Road, Welikada, Rajagiriya.

We now have five full time academics including three professors on our staff as well as a number of Teaching Assistants and a full complement of office staff to support the students. We also have our own well equipped laboratories as well as an Information Technology Centre and Instrumentation Centre.

Our successful Graduate Chemists have been able to obtain employment as well as opportunities for post graduate studies without much difficulty in institutions both within Sri Lanka and abroad, A very large number of them have obtained or are reading for PG qualifications (over 35 have already obtained Ph D degrees) and the general desire of most students today is to proceed abroad for PG qualifications.

What is also most interesting is that some of our students concurrently follow degree program (including medical degrees) from other Universities and institutions as well but complete our program much earlier than any other!

This mammoth contribution to human resource development in Chemistry in Sri Lanka has been made by our professional body of Chartered Chemists without any money been expended by the Government.

We are very thankful to the UDA for granting us a decade ago a small 25 perch block of land on lease to put up our own Headquarters, Lecture halls and Laboratories but the ever increasing demand to follow our program as well as the very low attrition rate have already caused us huge space problems to meet our essential needs.

We hope therefore that our current attempts to obtain additional land in the vicinity will be successful since our efforts have already proved what a professional body can do outside the highly regimented and bureaucratic State sector to meet essential national manpower needs without being a burden to the tax paying public of Sri Lanka.

It is also relevant to point out that it would have cost the Sri Lankan Government nearly 100 million rupees to meet the cost of producing 92 Graduate Chemists through the Special Degree Program in Chemistry offered by the Sri Lankan University system.

On the other hand, all that these 92 Graduate Chemists have paid the Institute of Chemistry Ceylon for the program they have followed is about 20 million rupees. The huge economic advantage to the country due to our home based indigenous professional program outside the State sector is clearly obvious.

Sri Lanka has one of the lowest percentage of students enrolled in higher educational/tertiary programs even in the South Asian region.





