Online edition of Daily News - Lakehouse NewspapersOne hundred and seventy five persons belonging to 25 families displaced from a landslide prone area in Gampola have been provided alternative land at Mahawilawatta, Ulapane to rebuild new homes. Rs. 3.8 million will be set apart for the new housing scheme, said Power Minister Mahindananda Aluthgamage. The 25 families belonging to the Muslim community were earlier residents in Balikapura and Gampolawela areas in Ganga Ihala Korale had faced this landslide threat. Since large extent of land had already cracked and started sinking these families were exited from their homes and Rs. 1,200 per day would be allocated to each family for the provision of dry food rations, he said. He added the Geological Survey and Mines Bureau had been requested to survey the threatened area and submit a report. An employee of a fuel station at Embilipitiya town was injured and admitted to Embilipitiya hospital when two motorcyclists threw a handbomb at the petrol shed at around 4.00 am yesterday. Embilipitiya police is conducting inquiries into the incident. A total sum of Rs. 750,000 has been collected as fines in the Bandarawela Excise Division last year by raids conducted by excise officials in unauthorised liquor centres. The raids were carried out in plantations areas like Punagala Haputale, Dambatenna, Wewgolla and Idalgashinna. The raids included 100 illicites brewing centres with the arrest of 100 people after being produced in the Bandarawela Courts. The raids were conducted on the instructions of the Deputy Commissioner of Excise of the Uva Province with officials of the Department. The Muslim community will support the Government's peace and development efforts and President Mahinda Rajapaksa's policy on Palastine should be appreciated, said representatives of the 13 electorates of the Kandy district gathered at the President's House, Kandy recently. They pledged their fullest support to strengthen the President's current efforts in peace building. Various development programs launched by the Government were also praised by them. Their cooperation would be extended to the development drive, they said. The meeting was organised by Tourism Deputy Minister Faizer Musthapa. Low-income families get new lease of life The Southern Provincial Council will enhance livelihood activities of low income families in the Matara district. Selected unemployed youth have been given Rs. 15,000 each to commence self-employment ventures in carpentry, masonry, motor mechanism and welding, Matara District Southern Provincial Council Member Kapila Wellappili said. Some have already been given tool kits and grinding machines. The Southern Provincial Council funds have been utilised, Wellappili added. Management have been made by the Pallepola Pradeshiya Sabha to regularize the pre-schools in the area under its purview. Accordingly the first step the necessary uniforms for the pre-schools teachers were provided recently. So, also the free uniforms for the pre-schoolchildren, will also be issued in due course the PS Chairman Jagath Dissanyaka said. In addition all basic facilities are to be provided to these pre-schools. To mark Sri Lanka 61st Independence Day that falls on February 4th. The retired Schoolteachers' and the Retired School principals' Associations in Kurunegala district will donate school equipment and uniform material to 150 children of war heroes living in the North Western Province. K.D. Jayaratne, Asst. Secretary Kurunegala District Retired School Principals Association said Rs. 300,000 was collected and selected children will be given the school equipment and uniform material on February 4 at Bingiriya Community Centre and the Youth Training Centre at Kuliyapitiya. The construction of seven houses were completed last year (2008) in Pathadumbura and Panwila Divisional Secretariat divisions by the Samurdhi Development Authority under the "Diriya Piyasa" program. These houses were constructed for needy families in the area. According to the Samurdhi Development Authority it had provided Rs. 350,000 at the rate of Rs. 50,000 for each house. Urban Development and Sacred Area Development Minister Dinesh Gunawardane declared opened the Galewela T.B. Tennakoon Memorial Multi Purpose Building constructed at a cost of Rs. 93 million at a public ceremony held under the patronage of Provincial Council and Local Government Minister Janaka Bandara Tennakoon. He said that under the Dambulla City Development Project, plans are afoot to construct a ware house, cold house, grain collection centre and a bus halt in Galewela city. A shopping complex with a car park will also be constructed, Minister Gunawardane added. Minister Gunawardane commended the contribution of President Mahinda Rajapaksa and those who helped expedite the Dambulla city development project. He noted that with the Dambulla Sacred area development project, economic development of the area also will be expedited simultaneously. He said that a draft Bill is also being prepared to lay a railway track through Dambulla city shortly. It is also planned to construct a airport in Dambulla city. Provincial Council and Local Government Minister Janaka Bandara Tennekoon said Dambulla will experience a development drive and will be on par with other major cities, once this project is completed. The Kumpulan Melayu Battaramulla (KMB) has organised a cultural show "Tarian dan Lagu Melayu" (Malay songs and dances) on February 7 at the Namel Malani Punchi Theatre, Borella at 6 p.m. For further details contact 0777-797928. The Kumpulan Melayu Battaramulla, will also felicitate the well-known musician Kalasoori Al Haj Sahid (Stanley) Oumar at the same event. The Sri Lanka English Language Teachers' Association (SLELTA) Conference 2009 will be held on the theme Non-School English Education: Addressing New Demands and Standards on February 9 at the Arts Theatre, University of Peradeniya from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. The Conference is open to all, especially members of SLELTA and the English Literary Association of the University of Peradeniya. All those interested in attending should call Pradeepa on 077-2942956 or Lilani on 077-3479192.



