Civil society representatives hail Government

CHAMINDA PERERA

Political leaders and civil society representatives yesterday hailed President Mahinda Rajapaksa, Defence Secretary Gotabhaya Rajapaksa and indefatigable Army Commander Lt. General Sarath Fonseka, who deserve plaudits for liberating the LTTE's main bastion in the North.

Ven. Elle Gunawansa Thera who is a pioneer in reviving all progressive Forces under one banner to fight against terrorism says the Nation should honour President, the Defence Secretary and Forces Commanders for charismatic leadership to the Forces to continue the fight against terrorism.

Ven. Elle Gunawansa Thera said the recapture of Kilinochchi town by the Armed Forces was a victory against the conspiracy hatched by NGOs and certain parties with vested interests.

The Thera said the Government should alleviate the sufferings of innocent civilians living in IDP camps. "The people were facing untold hardships under the LTTE and the Government's duty is to relieve their sufferings, the Thera said.

"These people are deprived of their basic rights and the time has come to end their decades long agony". The Government should make every possible effort to restore civil administration in the area to ensure that they receive better services from Government institutions.

The President never bowed down to the pressure of local and international elements who attempted to divide the country under the guise of negotiations with separatists. The Thera said there was a segment of society who are not happy with what our Forces have achieved. This segment is nurtured by NGOs and other elements that are averse to the country's development.

National Freedom Front Leader Wimal Weerawansa yesterday called upon all patriotic and progressive forces for a broader alliance against terrorism.

Weerawansa paid gratitude to the Armed Forces who laid down their lives in the confrontations with terrorists.

"The Forces have shattered their dream of Eelam by capturing Kilinochchi. The nation should be grateful to the advancing Forces who braved numerous difficulties in their path to achieve peace in the country. "Opposition Leader Ranil Wickremesinghe as the then Prime Minister in a pseudo agreement granted an undue privilege to terrorists who had the backing of the United National Party.

The UNP recently twisted the Military spokesman's statement and reiterated that Kilinochchi could never be overrun by troops. The LTTE in connivance with the UNP attempted to induce an opinion in the minds of the public that Kilinochchi could never be taken.

Weerawansa said all their day dreams were shattered when the troops entered the town destroying numerous death traps laid by the terrorists to delay their advance.

He said the people at this moment should come forward and rejoice in the victory gained by our valiant Forces.

Power and Energy Minister W.D.J. Seneviratne yesterday said the recapture of Kilinochchi town by the troops would mark another important milestone in the Government's battle against terrorism.

He said the troops' victory at Kilinochchi after months of resistance would be the end of terrorism which plagued the country's development. President Mahinda Rajapaksa should be honoured for taking bold steps to annihilate the LTTE terrorists for it has posed a great threat to the national security and territorial integrity of the country.

"The President's dynamic leadership helped achieve a series of landmark victories in the battle front at a time when the country's security and territorial integrity were at stake," he said.

"The Armed Forces mission to restore peace in the North and East should receive its due recognition and their mission for the emancipation of the Motherland from the woes of terrorism would be written in the country's history in golden letters," he said.

"The country's leadership during 2002 - 2004 betrayed the basic rights of all communities by entering into an agreement with the terrorists," he said.





