No such thing as a miracle

Serge HALIMI

Continued from yesterday

Republicans find this intolerable, hence their strength of feeling. Already back in June 1951, there had been a Democrat in the White House, Harry Truman. As President, he had devoted himself to the fight against communism and the Soviet Union, the defence of the empire and the profits of General Electric. But in the eyes of a significant part of the Republican electorate, he was a traitor no matter what he did.

Barack Obama, standing before numerous challenges. AFP

Senator Joseph McCarthy asked: "How can we account for our present situation unless we believe that men high in this Government are concerting to deliver us to disaster? This must be the product of a great conspiracy, a conspiracy on a scale so immense as to dwarf any previous such venture in the history of man.

A conspiracy of infamy so black that, when it is finally exposed, its principle shall be forever deserving of the malediction of all honest men." For four years, McCarthy terrorized US progressives, artists and trade unionists, and also high officials, including the military.

Media frenzy

We haven't reached that point yet. But the atmosphere is again being poisoned by the paranoia of rightwing activists whipped into a frenzy by the radio talk shows, the rolling 'news' from Fox News, the editorials of the Wall Street Journal, the fundamentalist churches and the crazy rumours spread by the internet.

These invade the mind and block out thought about other things. Millions of Americans passionate about politics are convinced that their President lied about his birth and is ineligible to occupy the White House because he was born abroad. They are adamant that his victory, won by 8,500,000 votes, was the result of fraud, a "conspiracy on a scale so immense".

They loathe the idea of having a leader who spent two years in a Muslim school in Indonesia, a former leftwing activist and cosmopolitan intellectual. They have an unshakeable belief that health reform is just the precursor to the creation of death panels, tribunals that will decide which patients will receive treatment.

Iron rod rule

These cohorts form the hard core of the Republican Party. They rule with a rod of iron over the representatives with whom the good centrist Obama reckoned on negotiating his stimulus package, his health insurance reforms and financial regulation.

The vanity of such a hope quickly became apparent. Less than a month after Obama arrived in the White House, his plan to increase public expenditure failed to receive the support of any of the 177 Republicans in the House of Representatives.

In November came health reform; just one Opposition member voted with the Democrat majority.

In December legislation designed to protect consumers from abusive practices by credit companies was also passed by the House of Representatives without a single Republican supporter. On every occasion, however, the bills put to the vote were amended in the hope that the President could present them as bipartisan.

High price to pay

In finance reform, no one can tell what the law he will eventually sign will be like. If less than 60 of the 100 senators demand a vote, the discussions could go on indefinitely. As there are 40 Republican Senators, each of them - and any refractory Democrats - can exact a high price for their support.

One such Democrat, Joseph Lieberman (who endorsed John McCain, the Republican candidate in the 2008 election), has already obstructed the creation of a public option for Americans without medical cover. Private medical insurance companies are among Senator Lieberman's main funders.

On September 28, 2008, when a $700 billion rescue package for the banks approved by candidate Obama was being discussed, a representative on the left, Dennis Kucinich, asked: "Is this the US Congress or the board of directors of Goldman Sachs?" The question is still pertinent, as Obama recently found it necessary to point out that "I did not run for office to be helping out a bunch of fat cat bankers on Wall Street".

Nonetheless, in 2008 Goldman Sachs, Citigroup, JPMorgan, UBS and Morgan Stanley were among his top 20 campaign funders. Journalist William Greider summed the situation up: "The Democrats face a dilemma: can they serve the public interest without discomforting the bankers who help fund their campaigns?"

So can the US be reformed? Its system is supposed to be characterised by checks and balances. But really it consists of different centres of powers all governed by the dollar.

In 2008 millions of young people threw themselves into the political struggle, reckoning that with Obama as President, nothing would be as it was before. But now he too is engaged in horse-trading, buying a vote that he needs, courting a figure he despises.

Could he do otherwise? The personality of a single individual doesn't count for all that much weighed against the tyranny of the whole system, especially when the opposition has turned hysterical and the grassroots movement boils down to some crumbling unions, black activists co-opted by the executive and bloggers who think that activism can be spread from their keyboards.

For things to take a progressive turn in the US would require an almost perfect alignment of the planets. In contrast, in order massively to reduce the tax burden on the rich, Ronald Reagan didn't even need a majority in Congress.

Some of the misunderstanding may stem from Obama's biography. First, because it has concentrated all the fire and all the expectations on him as an individual. And second, because it's been a long time since the president resembled the radical adolescent described in his memoirs - the Obama who attended socialist lectures; who was shocked by the anti-communist coup in Indonesia in 1965; and who worked in Harlem for an association with links to Ralph Nader.

Nor does there remain a trace of the Afro-American activist who, "to avoid being mistaken for a sellout, chose [his] friends carefully. The more politically active black students. The foreign students. The Chicanos. The Marxist professors and structural feminists and punk-rock performance poets. We smoked cigarettes and wore leather jackets. At night, in the dorms, we discussed neocolonialism, Franz Fanon, Eurocentrism, and patriarchy."

For Republicans, this journey is all the proof they need that the man is dangerous - alien to the individualist culture of the US, indulgent towards the enemies of liberty and disposed "to socialize the US health system".

Democratic activists are hoping their president, who has disappointed them thus far, will put into action more progressive policies as soon as he can, and that such is his intention. The fears of one group stir up the hopes of the other.

Paranoid style

There is too much talk about Obama. The man has taken on the aspect of a demi-god believed to be capable of taming a range of social forces, institutions and interests.

This immature personalization of power is also characteristic of France and Italy, but there the devil is on the other side (if only Berlusconi and Sarkozy were to fall, the thinking goes, then the left would be saved).

Half a century ago, the US historian Richard Hofstadter popularized the expression "paranoid style" to capture this political mood. What he had in mind was the McCarthyite right and its immediate successors, but he claimed that his ideal type would find other applications in the course of time.

So it has proved. Today the rise of individualism, intellectual laziness, the hysterical direction of debate, the harmful role of the media and the decline of Marxism have made widespread the illusion according to which, as Hofstadter explained in 1963, "unlike the rest of us, the enemy is not caught in the toils of the vast mechanism of history, himself the victim of his past, his desires, his limitations.

He is a free, active, demonic agent. He wills, indeed he manufactures, the mechanism of history himself, or deflects the normal course of history in an evil way. He makes crises, starts runs on banks, causes depression, manufactures disasters, and then enjoys and profits from the misery he has produced."

Rush Limbaugh, the neocon radio host, accuses some of Obama's supporters of taking him for the Messiah. Maybe so, but then why does he persist in denouncing Obama as the Antichrist?

Ultimately, the miracle of the election in November 2008 could be to remind us that there's no such thing as a miracle. And that the destiny of the US, like that of other countries, mustn't be confused with the personality of one man or the will of a president. Concluded





