Emilie Java 1904

Catherine van Moppes sits amidst the clatter of crockery in the veranda of Galle Face Hotel and talks about her first novel Emilie Java 1904, published sometime ago by Albin Michel.

Like her heroine Emilie, Catherine is raven-haired, and quite intent on plunging into the complexities of Dutch colonisation in Java.

The cover of the Chinese translation of Emilie Java 1904

Soon, she will be participating in the Galle Literary Festival commencing at the close of January, and has decided to engage in a few hours of lively conversation with the Daily News. Emilie Java 1904, first written in Spanish, has been translated into Chinese and Japanese and soon an Indonesian translation too will be available to the reader.

"We are looking to make a movie of the story," says a calm yet exuberant Catherine.

She has been a writer since the tender age of twelve. "There has always been something in me to write," muses Catherine. "Now I write short stories or poetry two hours every day. It gives me love and serenity." Being in Vietnam, Laos and the South Pacific, Catherine developed a sense of fighting for justice and tumbled onto the plot of Emilie.

"It is a portrait of women in Asia," she says. "I was in Batavia and used the Dutch colonisation in Indonesia as the backdrop for my novel." The story revolves around Emilie, a young French woman. "She is nineteen, receives her education in Bordeaux, an important town in France and wants to devote herself to the colonial mission.

She goes to Indonesia and works hard with the native people. From Holland, she receives a request to report on the lives of natives and give them education," narrated Catherine. Emilie's marriage to a French man who is akin to a puppet of the Dutch, is running into troubled waters.

He does not realise that he is being used. The Comprador in Indonesia does not fancy affording education to the natives as he thinks it would make them rebel. The Chinese arrive in Batavia, to work, rebel and die for freedom. Emilie sees the colonial Dutch having a fantastic time compared to the natives. She is invited to the home of the rich Chinese Comprador where the old splendor is evident.

She meets a young Chinese girl who says, "I am the daughter of the Comprador."

The cover of the Japanese translation of Emilie Java 1904

I am against this way, she says and asks Emilie to teach her of democracy in Europe. "We belong to young people who want to do something against the colonial system. Teach me new values."

Emilie is very happy. When the slim and black eyed Emilie wears the sarong in day time and goes about in town, people think she is of mixed blood. She meets a young painter and poet who is very poor and they begin to talk. They begin to share love and she gets more involved in the coup.

"Eastern men are very romantic and very different from European mentality," differentiates Catherine. "Emilie can help the Asians but she cannot become like them and fight. She should not get too much into the Asian life. She thinks her lover will stay with her forever but it is not the Eastern way, to love. For him, the most important thing is his cause. She does not understand that. If a European man has a girl from the East, people think it is correct. If a European lady has lover from the East, people do not like it. This is the same today."

Catherine draws attention to intercultural differences and intercultural dignity. In her next story, a tragedy based on Portuguese colonialism, her heroine is arrested and banished to a remote island. To escape she has to forge her identity as a small boy. The story is about how the Portuguese managed Macau. Fluent in Malay and Indonesian, Catherine reminds us that Sri Lanka has been named in New York Times as "the destination to go." For me, Sri Lanka is unique, she ventures.

"It has managed to keep intact its culture, heritage, respect for nature and respect between communities of Buddhists, Hindus, Muslims and Christians. When you speak to people, you see that they have mutual respect. You can discuss things with everybody." Such things, articulates Catherine, are beyond compare.





