Online edition of Daily News - Lakehouse NewspapersFirst Lady Shiranthi Rajapaksa on Friday opened a pre-school at the China Bay Air Force base in Trincomalee as part of program to establish a pre-school on par with international standards in every Air Force base in the country. Pre-schools have been set up in Vavuniya, Katunayake, Anuradhapura, Diyathalawa, Hingurakgoda , Guwanpura and Ratmalana Air Force bases under this program which is implemented by the Sri Lanka Air Force Seva Vanitha Unit. These pre-schools have been equipped with all modern facilities such as computers ,audio visual appliances and swimming pools to ensure quality childhood education which is considered as the foundation of a life. These pre-schools guarantee the highest possible standards through dedicated teachers who ensure the required environment with all modern facilities for children to learn and grow up to meet their next phase of education. Sri Lanka Air Force Seva Vanitha Unit chairperson Nelum Goonetileke herself has designed a new syllabus and set of pre-school text books using her expertise as a mother and a teacher on par with international standards. The syllabus has focused emphasis on all quarters ranging from languages to extra curricular activities. The children of Service men and the civil society in the vicinity of respective Air base can enter this pre-school. The Seva Vanitha Unit has selected the best team of pre-school teachers to run this pre-school chain with painstaking attention to their qualifications and experience. It helps them to update their knowledge by organising regular training session. SLAF Seva Vanitha Unit Chairperson Nelum Goonetileke said these pre- schools will endeavour to achieve a gamut of objectives including the enhancement of childhood development. She said the Seva Vanitha Unit has made great efforts to select the best teachers for these pre-schools and appreciated the assistance extended by the SLAF to make this program a reality. The Seva Vanitha Unit granted scholarships to children of SLAF staffers at the China Bay Air Force base and dry rations to the less privileged in the areas. A distribution of wheelchairs also took place on this occasion. The SLAF Seva Vanitha Unit honoured First Lady Shiranthi Rajapaksa by presenting a replica of MI 24 fighter helicopter which was largely deployed in the control of terrorist activities in the Eastern and Northern areas. Air Force Commander Roshan Goonetileke, Chairperson of Defence Ministry Seva Vanitha Unit Ayoma Rajapaksa, Sri Lanka Navy Seva Vanitha Unit Chairperson Ashoka Karannagoda, Sri Lanka Polce Seva Vanitha Unit Chairperson Anoma Wickremaratne, Chandra Rajapaksa and Commander of China Bay Group Captain Vijitha Gunaratne were also present.



