Embracing death with a smile

All of us have to die one day. Our death should be serene and peaceful. Therefore, when someone is about to die we should make it as serene and beautiful for him or her as possible. Yes, are you surprised that death can be beautiful? If you are, it is because we normally have dosa or aversion towards death. There is fear of pain and the uncertainty of what is to come after death. Then there is attachment to our loved ones which gives rise to much pain in our heart in having to part with them.

The Buddha Parinirvana

We should however realize that our wrong understanding and attitude is the cause of our suffering. We have not understood the Dhamma deeply enough. We have not understood and penetrated the nature of mind and body as impermanence, suffering and no-self. We have not learned how to let go gracefully, how to submit to the inevitable.

Gently reproached

When the Buddha's stepmother Maha Prajapati Gotami was about to die at the ripe old age of 120. Ananda and the nuns cried. Maha Prajapati Gotami gently reproached them: "But why should you cry, my son and daughters. Don't you see this body of mine has become old and decrepit?

It is like a haunt of snakes, a seat of diseases, a resort of old age and death, a house of suffering. Weary have I grown with this corpse of a body. It has been nothing but a great burden to me. Long have I aspired for the liberation of Nibbana. And today my wish is about to be realized. Truly my death is a happy thing. It is the time for me to beat the drum of satisfaction and joy. Why then should you cry?"

The Buddha, as he was dying amidst natural surroundings under two sal trees in the forest, also told Ananda not to cry at his death. He said one must with wisdom and equanimity accept the fact that death and separation from all that we love is inevitable. The Buddha reminded that we must practise mindfulness meditation to attain the wisdom that can enable us to face death with serenity. He told the monks: "Thus must you train yourselves: We must meet our death mindful and composed." And the Buddha's last words were: "All conditioned things are subject to dissolution. You should strive on with diligence."

Encouragement

People who have lived beautiful lives can die beautifully. The other day I came across a very touching In Memoriam in the newspaper: "As she breathed her last and entered into eternal life, her face lit up and her lips broke into a lovely smile. Sister F., on seeing this, exclaimed: "Look, she's seeing God....." It so happened I know this lady, a Christian, who had died such a beautiful death. She had a very gentle and kind nature and was always concerned for the welfare of others.

I was told that as a school teacher she used to seek out the especially weak students and gave them special coaching and encouragement. She was deeply loved and cherished by her family and by all those whose lives had been touched by hers. I am told that she had always been such a gentle and loving person to everybody that verily her life was just like that of a saint.

Having lived such a beautiful life, it is no wonder that she died a beautiful death. Our religions may vary but as the Dalai Lama, winner of the Nobel Peace Prize, puts it: "Compassion is the essence of all religions."

It is my firm belief that if we have lived a good life, then when we die we will die a beautiful death whether we are Buddhists, Christians, Hindus, Muslims, or of whatever views or beliefs. As the Buddha says, it is deeds that maketh a person. In this context I used to tell Buddhists that it is better to be a good Christian or good Muslim than to be a bad Buddhist. Thus, good Christians when they die may see their God or the light. Buddhists too may see mental images of the Buddha, arahants, devas or heavenly realms and radiant light.

Death comes unexpectedly and sweeps along the people irrespective of their age and the Patachara tale is an example

Incredible sweetness

Jack Kornfield, the American Vipassana meditation teacher, once related in the Inquiring Mind journal how he visited Howard Nudleman, a very kind surgeon and meditator a day before the latter died of cancer. He recollected how walking into Howard's room was like walking into a temple. And when he looked at Howard, Howard gave him a smile, a smile of such incredible sweetness, that he (Kornfield) would never be able to forget it for the rest of his life.

Yes, I am sure touching stories about beautiful deaths of beautiful people abound. Therefore, death too can be a beautiful experience. When we have lived a good life and this body has become frail and broken down, we can face death gracefully, knowing that we have lived a good life and that it is time for us to move on.

So when a loved one is about to die, we should understand and allow him (or her) to go peacefully. We should make it as serene and beautiful for him as possible. Obviously, we shouldn't be crying or wailing.

That would only make it more difficult for the dying person. Of course if he is an understanding Buddhist and there is still strength in him to speak, he might, just like the Buddha, gently chide you: "But my dear why should you cry? Has not the Buddha taught us in many a way that separation is inevitable in life? How can it be that what is subject to dissolution should not dissolve? That is not possible.

Contemplate deeply

Therefore, we should contemplate deeply on the Dhamma. This body, my dear, is not ours. This mind too is not ours. They arise and pass away according to conditions. We must practise mindfulness deeply to see this, so that, clinging no more, we can be liberated from birth and death. My dear, be strong. Even as I take my leave of you I will like to remind you of the Buddha's last words to us all: All conditioned phenomena are subject to dissolution. Therefore, I exhort you, strive on with diligence."

Yes, all Buddhists should remember that the Buddha's last reminder to us was to strive on untiringly to attain the wisdom that can liberate us from birth and death. A meditator should meditate to the very end. He can observe his in-breath or out-breath or the rising and falling of the abdomen as he breathes in and out. If he experiences any difficulties he can be aware of them, noting them as they are, without any fear or anxiety, but with calmness and steadiness of mind.

He can observe painful sensations and bear them even if they are intense. He can remind himself that they are merely sensations, albeit difficult ones. He can see too that they are impermanent, that they continually arise and pass away. He can understand and not cling or be attached to the body. He knows that both the body and mind arise and pass away according to conditions.

Karmic energy

He can reflect: "This mind and body are not mine. They have never belonged to me. They arise because of conditions and, according to conditions, they will pass away. Accordingly, this eye is not mine, this ear is not mine, this nose is not mine.....

This body is made up of the four elements of earth, fire, water and air which represent the qualities of matter, the qualities of hardness, softness, pressure, tension, heat, cold and so on. As long as there is karmic energy to sustain my lifespan for this life, this body will survive. When the karmic energy for this life expires, then this body dies, and a new mind conditioned by the old mind at the moment of death, arises in a new body.

If I had attained arahatship, there is no need for anymore rebirth. If I have not but have, nevertheless, lived a good life, I am not afraid of a new rebirth. I can take on a new existence as a well-endowed and intelligent human or a heavenly being and from there continue my path of development until I attain the ultimate Nibbana, the end of birth and death." Reflecting in this way, a meditator can become very calm and steady.

He can become very peaceful. He can even smile at his pain and at the people that may be gathered around him. With his mind being so peaceful, painful bodily sensations too can cease. He can die in serenity and peace, gently breathing his last.

Courtesy: Loving and dying. Illustrated by Hor Tuck Loon.

Buddhist heritage:

New Buddhist Viharas in India

Rohan L. Jayetilleke

Presently, Maharashtra State which has the largest Buddhist population, about 6 million of the total Indian Buddhist population of 10 million, is studded with Buddha Viharas. In every locality in cities and every village has a Vihara.

The largest number of Viharas are in Nagpur, the capital of Neo-Buddhist Movement. Whilst Delhi the capital of India has the second largest number of Buddhist Viharas, more than forty as against two prior to 1956 (Buddha Jayanthi). Some of the important Viharas constructed by Indian Buddhists as well as by foreign Buddhist during the last 50 years are as follows:

Tallest statue

The most significant feature of the Golden Ambedkar era of Indian Buddhism is the construction of more than 25 Buddhist Viharas and monasteries with facilities of pilgrims rests at Buddha Gaya by the Buddhists of South Asian countries. Today Buddha Gaya is adorned with the tallest Buddha statue in India, erected by the Daijokyo Association of Japan, the architects being Indians themselves.

Ancient Buddhist Viharas in India

This statue is 80 feet in height and 60 feet in width in the open air, built of pink Chunar stone (Chunar is a place in Tamil Nadu, where this variety of stone is found), and seated on a huge lotus in the meditation posture, with eyes half-closed. It was unveiled by His Holiness the Dalai Lama on November 18, 1989.

The Buddhist countries have built Buddhist Viharas and monasteries at Saranath, Sravasthi, Kushinagar and Vaishali. The Japanese have built a magnificent Peace Pagoda atop Ratnagiri hill at Rajgir (Rajagaha) in Bihar State. This 160 feet high gold topped pagoda was opened on October 25, 1969. Still another exquisite Peace Pagoda built by Fujii of Japan is atop Dhauli hill near Bhubanesar, capital of Orissa State.

Embraced Buddhism

Dhauli is the place where Emperor Asoka embraced Buddhism after the genocidal conquest of Kalinga, which during Buddha's time known as Ukkal or Utkal, from where the two merchant brothers Tapassu and Bhalluka, whilst on a trading expedition met the Buddha at Rajayatana Tree in Buddha Gaya, offering 'madhu-pindiks' to the Buddha who was in his seventh week after Enlightenment.

These two became the first lay disciples of the Buddha. On their request for a memento, The Buddha gave them some sacred hair relics, which they carried and built stupas, two in number enshrining them at Rangoon, Myanmar, which stupa is today the Shedagon Pagoda and a stupa at Kuchchaveli, in Tiriyaya, near Trincomalee present harbour, then known as Gokanna.

Brahmi script

Emperor Asoka had the war near Dhauli on the banks of the river Daya, and his remorse after embracing Buddhism is recorded in the following manner at Dhauli. This Rock Edict of Dhauli, with versions of it at Girnar, Kalsi, Shabazgarhi, Manshera and Erragudi, in Brahmi script in Ardha-Magadhi language, and the English translation of it as recorded in Epigraphis Indica, is as follows:

"By King Devanampriya Priyadarshin, who was consecrated for eight years Kalinga was conquered. One hundred and fifty thousand there is number were deported from there. About hundred thousand were slained.

Many times that number perished. Hereafter, now that Kalinga was annexed Devanampriya's observance of Dharma, love of Dharma and propagating Dharma became ardent. There is this remorse of his that he conquered Kalinga."

The Lainga Peace Pagoda was established on November 8, 1972. The most important Buddhist Viharas built in Nagpur, (Maharashtra) the city where Dr. Ambedkar turned the Wheel of Dhamma on October 14, 1956 are: Buddha Vihara, established by Bhadant Arya Nagarjuna Shruei Sasai, A Japanese monk, settled in India, Buddha Bhoomi Mahavihara, Kampton Road, established in 1982 by Bhdant Anand Kausalyayana and Ven. Dr. S. Medhankar, Shantivan Buddha Vihara at Chincholi established by the Indian Buddhist Council. Nagarjuna Vihara established by the Trilokya Bauddha Mahasangha Sahayaka Gana, Pune and Dragob Palace Vihara, Kamptee, established jointly by two ladies Nariko Ogawa of Japan and Sulekhatai Kumbhare of Nagpur. This Vihara has a beautiful 8 feet high Buddha statue of pure sandalwood, weighing 864 kilos. These Buddhist Viharas have showcased the prestige of Nagpur, the city of Deeksha Bhoomi of Dr. Ambedkar.

Of the many Buddhist Viharas built in the post 1956 era three are of great importance. Ananda Buddha Vihara, atop Mahendra Hill at Secunderbad (Hyderabad) was built in Andhra Pradesh. This magnificent Vihara was built by the Ananda Buddha Vihara Trust, Mahabodhi World Peace Pagoda was built by the Maha Bodhi Society, Bangalore, funded by ven. Archarya Buddharakkhita Mahathera in 1956, Takshasila Maha Vihara built recently at Ludihana in Punjab by the Punjab Buddhist Society, England, funded by Ven. Chander Bodhi in England.

North East India is the homeland to the thousands of traditional Buddhists in the States like Assam, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Tripura etc. In Meghalaya, the capital Shillong has a Vihara funded in the year 1918 by Ven. Kripsar an Mahathera, the founder of the Bengal Buddhist Association.

The work on the Vihara commenced only after the arrival of Ven. Jinaratana in the year 1935.

Through hard and committed work he made that Vihara the hub of Buddhist activities of the north-east region in India. This branch of the Bengal Buddhist Association has a Middle and High School, a Pali School, a free dispensary, and a hostel for the tribal Buddhist who study there. There are Buddhists in the district of Garo Hills like the Rabhas, Kochs who are not known to the other Buddhists outside Meghalaya. They being tribals and their lifestyles are simple and they now remain in the oblivion. Action now needs to be taken to sustain their ancient culture which is now creeping into the oblivion.

Tripura, on the borders of Bangladesh has many Buddhists. East Asian countries and this waves of migrations are datable to more than 150 years during the monarchial form of government. A new chapter in the history of Buddhism was created by King of Tripura Bir Bikram Dev Burman building the first Buddhist Vihara in Agartala, the capital of Tripura kingdom, which was consecrated by many senior and renowned monks from Myanmar (Burma) and Chittangong. The most unique character of this construction is that the King was a non-Buddhist.

This Vihara is more than 70 years old and is a centre of veneration, situated on the main highway. There are many Buddhist villages with their own culture and traditions and small shrines and leading harmonious life with the environment.

Mizoram, the tiny and the youngest State then created in 1972 has an entire district comprising Buddhists. They have their own Autonomous District Council. Mostly they are the Chakmas, the migrants from Chittagong, sometimes historians trace their ancestry to Sakyans, being hill-tribes they have their own cultural and linguistic richness which they have zealously preserved through the ages.

The Sakyans too being of the hill - country of present day Nepal, certainly these people are of the Sakyan stock. They are still way behind being taught the Buddhist literature and a form of Buddhist education provided to their children.

Assam, which is the biggest of all the seven sisters (States) has a vast Buddhist population, comprising mainly of traditional Buddhist migrants who have come centuries ago from the Thai-Myanmar-Kachin axis and Chittagong.

Today the region is their domiciled homeland. The villages are inter-connected with cultural affinities based on Buddhism. Being mainly agriculturalists and in the absence of a viable economic background their Buddhist activities are concentrated to themselves in their own villages.

Many efforts were made by individuals to promote their socio-economic standards, but, the All Assam Bhikku Sangha has contributed immensely to bring all the Buddhist ethnic groups to a common fold.

In 1973, the International Brotherhood Mission, was founded by Ven. Bhikkhu Karuna in Dibrugarh which today is the epicentre for all Buddhists in Assam. This organization has made it possible for Assam Buddhists to interact with Buddhists in other parts of India.

The Mission is now launching programs in the field of socio-educational sphere, where it operates a school, destitute home, a juvenile home, a dispensary, a sewing and stitching training school. All this is possible due to the dint of perseverance of the founder. Annually seminars and symposiums are conducted where learned scholars and renowned personalities attends for lectures. This has promoted the Assamese Buddhists to interact with the Buddhists of other parts of India.

Recently through the initiative of Ven. Karuna Sashtri and the Mission many images of The Buddha were donated by Thailand Buddhists and these images were in turn donated to the other Viharas in Assam, which act had generated a great deal of devotion among the Assamese Buddhists.

In Assam there is a place called Hajo, where there is an ancient Vihara which is visited and venerated by the three faiths, the Buddhists, the Hindus and Muslims. This Vihara has thus created a national integration of all faiths to live in peace, amity and inter-religious friendship.

In West Bengal in the northern region bordering Darjeeling there is the city of Siliguri, where numerous Buddhist activities take place. Here the first Vihara Buddha Bharati was constructed by Ven. Rastrapal Mahathera during his student days at the Nava Nalanda Maha Vihara.

In Sikkim, the only State of India which is totally composed of Buddhists, and the State Government has a Ministry called Ecclesiastical Affairs. Sikkim too has the Tibetan Rumtek Monastery, the centre of Tibetan Buddhism, now that Tibet is under the government of China and the His Holiness the Dalai Lama too is now resident in Dharmasala in North India as a refugee with thousands of Tibetans and their Lamas.

In Arunachal Pradesh, one of the seven sister States, too has a huge Buddhist population, followers of Theravada as well as Mahayana Buddhism. Arunachal has the most active Tawang Monastery. This Tibetan Buddhist centre preserves originals of the Tibetan Buddhist literature. There is also a crying need to set up a faculty of Buddhist studies in the Arunachal University.

With the dawn of independence in India in 1947 the social, political and economic structure kept changing to meet the needs of the people.

These minorities in India classed as 'scheduled castes' and 'tribals' were given safeguards through the Constitution with appendices to the Constitution. A National Commission for Minorities was formed. Buddhists with its vast numbers under these headings too were brought under this Commission. The first Buddhist member of this Commission was Ven. Kushok Bakula from Ladakh, and he was also the Ambassador of India to Mongolia.

The present members representing the Buddhists in the Commission is Ven. Lama Zotpa from Ladakh. During the term of office of Ven. Dharmaviriyo, the Bengali Buddhist community was given due recognition and due to this recognition it became possible for minority Buddhists, to enter schools, colleges and universities and then gain good employment both in the private and State sectors. Today young men and women, who were earlier marginalised have now risen in the socio-economic ladder and abreast of the so-called privileged classes of India.





