Green Building Council for construction industry

SLIA to play pivotal role:

Charumini de Silva

Sri Lanka Institute of Architects (SLIA) is planning to setup Green Building Council of Sri Lanka with all stakeholders in the construction industry to improve standards of the industry. All stakeholders such as engineers, architects, environmentalists, planners and quantity survey consultants will participate so that there will not be disparities in the quality of the construction industry. SLIA will play pivotal role in this initiative Sri Lanka Institute of Architects President, Chandana Edirisuriya told Daily News Business.

SLIA President Chandana Edirisuriya

The majority of the architects are aware of the green concept and has shown interest. Energy efficiency is vital in construction industry.

The energy efficiency plan has to be included at the design stage of the plan.

The resources are being used unnecessarily when we could use daylight for some designs. These messages should be taken to the public and make them aware to take the maximum use of limited resources," he said.

He said to have a growth and development, any industry must be able to perform individually.

"Young architects are very creative and talented. The talents of our architects are recognized by the entire world and they are capable of performing under any international standard.

But the opportunity for capacity building is lacking.

Sri Lankan architects have ventured into the international market. "We need support from the Government to safeguard these architects," Edirisuriya said.

The Sri Lankan construction industry is still recovering from the global downturn and at present there is a slow progress. Economy has shown a steady growth and investments will come in.

"We are optimistic about the future of the industry. From 1990 to date our industry has been volatile. Many countries such as US, Dubai, Gulf region countries, Singapore, China and India were affected by the global economic downturn in the latter part of 2008. But China overcame that situation faster because the Chinese Government pumped money in to the industry," he said. "Our industry is very sensitive to the entire internal and external factors in the market. During the global economic meltdown the impact of it reflected on the apartment and the tourism industry.

Apartment industry investments reduced since investors had not found it as a viable investment," Edirisuriya said.





