Sri Lanka strengthens trade ties with China

During the three-day Trade Exhibition in China the Sri Lanka delegation had the opportunity of meeting with the Gao Hucheng the Vice Minister of Commerce and the other high officials of the Chinese Ministry of Commerce which has brought forth many tangible results for enhancing economic relations between the two countries.

As a first step to the requests made by the Sri Lanka delegation a new initiative was proposed by Sri Lanka for annual bilateral consultations between the officials of the Department of Commerce and counterparts in the Chinese Ministry of Commerce at the Director General level in providing a platform to address issues of concerns and strengthen the existing relations.

This proposal was acknowledged by the Chinese side and is expected to be implemented during the first half of 2008.

The Vice Minister responded positively to Sri Lanka's request of continuing with the South Asia fair as an annual event for exporters as well as Chinese importers to be familiar with the trading opportunities present. In considering the limited resource allocation, Sri Lanka requested concessional terms in trade fairs participation in China.

Sri Lanka was keen that the next round of Asia Pacific Trade Agreement (APTA) negotiations would facilitate further tariff reductions for potential items to the Chinese market such as tea, gems and jewellery, food and beverages, handicrafts etc. reducing the rates to project at least the ASEAN concessions.

Both delegations agreed to approach the next session of the APTA on a very positive note. The Chinese Ministry of Commerce agreed to provide technical assistance in increasing the opportunities for training facilities for Sri Lanka commercial officials and further developing a public/private partnership.

The Secretary Ministry of Export Development and International Trade, Ambassador of Sri Lanka Karunatilaka Amunugama Director General Department of Commerce and the Commercial Counsellor of the Embassy comprised the Sri Lanka delegation at these discussions.





