Medical facilities for Mullaitivu's displaced

Medical facilities have been provided to displaced civilians in welfare centres and persons living in the uncleared areas of Mullaitivu, said Health Ministry Secretary Dr. Athula Kahandaliyanage.

Dr Kahandaliyanage who personally toured welfare centres and hospitals in Vavuniya with a team of officials from Colombo, quoting a doctor formerly attached to the Kilinochchi hospital and now serving in Pudukudirippu, said hospitals in the area had never got affected during the ongoing humanitarian operations.

He also said the Government had not received reports of any civilian casualties from Mullaitivu recently, in the face of the ongoing humanitarian operations.

Denying media reports, Dr. Kahandaliyanage said no casualties were reported to him by hospital authorities based in uncleared areas in Mullaitivu.

Addressing the media yesterday, the doctor questioned the validity of such news sources while noting the possibility of LTTE attempting such tactics by presenting their cadres as civilians to divert attention and gain international sympathy existed in the present context.

He said despite difficulties, the medical fraternity in the area had done a remarkable job over the years, and they continued to do so.

Dr Kahandaliyanage said according to the doctor serving in Pudukudirippu, there had been one incident in Pudukudirippu where two persons had received minor injuries, which is considered as the only such incident, and the hospitals had always been spared from the conflict.

Dr. Kahandaliyanage said during the previous month, 285 babies were delivered at the Vishvanmadu hospital without a single incident, which was testimony to the facilities available and the commitment of the staff. Commenting on the shelter facilities available for IDPs in Vavuniya, he said they were equipped with all facilities and they were not temporary shelters but high-level resettlement camps.

He added that in case of the health sector, these were provided with manpower, drugs and equipment to meet any need of the displaced.

Arrangements are also in place to transfer civilians from uncleared areas to Mullaitivu who need advanced treatment, Dr Kahandaliyanage said.

Disaster Management and Human Rights Minister Mahinda Samarasinghe said the ICRC had informed him that they had taken steps to bring back two injured soldiers undergoing treatment in uncleared areas, to Vavuniya.





