2002 Ceasefire useless - Liberal Party

Though the Liberal Party believes that there is a need for an agreed or unilateral ceasefire, it feels that the 2002 Cease Fire Agreement document had been signed by the parties even without reading the contents, the Liberal Party said in a statement issued yesterday.

The party said in a statement: "It is a well known fact that during the so called peace period, it had been constantly violated by the Liberation Tigers. Just in the aftermath of its signing, more than 60 intelligence officers sacrificed their lives before unknown LTTE gunmen and during the period concerned former Foreign Minister Lakshman Kadirgamar, Deputy Secretary of the Peace Secretariat K.Loganathan and many others were gunned down by the LTTE. They also attempted the life of Army Chief Sarath Fonseka.

All are aware that though Ranil Wickremesinghe's Government honestly attempted to safeguard the provisions of the agreement the Tiger leader had his own tactics to build up the military strength of the LTTE under the shadow of the Agreement.

Liberals were of the view that even Chandrika Kumaratunga as the then President was not duty bound to adhere to the agreement between UNP and LTTE .The so called agreement itself is a piece of "appeasement".

However Liberals believe that the President under the Sri Lankan Constitution is able to enter in to agreements on behalf of the Sri Lankan state but not by the Prime Minister. Taking into considerations of the present realities Liberals feel that the 2002 agreement is useless and suggest that time has come to initiate a different type of a ceasefire.

Liberals denounce all types of terrorism and believe that a political solution is the answer to the ongoing conflict in Sri Lanka and suggest all political parties including the political wing of the Liberation Tigers to study the Indian constitution as model for future Sri Lanka. Thus, we uphold the view that a negotiated settlement is a must and urge all stake holders to work in unison to achieve the target."





