Laos

Pha That Luang - The Golden Stupa, national symbol of Laos. Courtesy: Google

Capital - Vientiane

Official languages - Lao

Official scripts - Lao script

Demonym – Laotian, Lao

Government - Socialist Republic

Independence from France - July 19,1949

Area - Total 236,800 km2

Population - 6,320,000

Currency - Kip (LAK)

Laos is a landlocked country in Southeast Asia, bordered by Burma and People's Republic of China to the Northwest, Vietnam to the East, Cambodia to the South and Thailand to the West.

Laos traces its history to the Kingdom of Lan Xang or Land of a Million Elephants, which existed from the 13th to the 18th Century. After a period as a French protectorate, it gained independence in 1949.

A long civil war ended officially when the Communist Pathet Lao movement came to power in 1975, but the protesting between factions continued for several years.

Forty-four percent of the population live below the international poverty line of the equivalent of US$1.25 a day. Courtesy: Wikipedia

Viewing solar eclipse

Dear Children,

Hope you had an interesting week. For those of you who were keeping in touch with the news, you would have known about the annular solar eclipse which was visible in Friday. I hope some of you may have observed the eclipse. It was clearly visible in Jaffna.

I hope those of you who were able to view the eclipse did so by using darkened glass, partially darkened x ray copies, specially designed spectacles and basins of water.

Viewing an eclipse with the naked eye could be very harmful to your eyesight. The Arthur C. Clarke Centre had made the necessary arrangements for safe public viewing using modern technology.

Hope you had a fun-filled time viewing the solar eclipse.

Haiti earthquake

World attention is on Haiti. The country being one of the least developed countries in the Western Hemisphere now struggling to survive after a massive earthquake. As you may have seen on TV, foreign aid is pouring into Haiti especially from US, China and Cuba.

However rescue operations are still being carried out with the assistance of UN, Red Cross and other NGOs. It is the duty of every nation to help a fellow country in their hour of need.

The earthquake death toll remains anyone's guess as bodies are still lying in the streets.

However, Haitian Red Cross estimates that more than 50,000 people could be dead and another three million hurt or displaced.

It is not very difficult for us to realize the plight of Haitian people since we too have experienced the tsunami which struck Sri Lanka in 2004. Our prayers and thoughts go out to the people and specially the children of Haiti during this difficult time.

Bye for now.

Aunt Anji

Primary Musaeites are ready to go on stage

The magic blends with love on January 31, 2010, at the Bishop's College Auditorium, when the Primary students of Musaeus College goes on stage with the Walt Disney all time favourites Classic 'Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs' with a cast of over 300 students.

Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs

The story revolves around a beautiful Princess called Snow White who's mother, the Queen dies of illness. The devastated King's second wife, being jealous of 'Snow White's' beauty, banishes her to the servants' quarters, assisted by her Magic Mirror. Later she decides to kill 'Snow White' with the help of a Huntsman, yet the Princess survives. 'Snow White' befriends Seven Dwarfs and many woodland creatures and lives in the Dwarfs' cottage, until the Magic Mirror informs the wicked Queen that 'Snow White' still lives! The furious wicked Queen disguises herself as an old peddler woman and poisons 'Snow White' with an apple.

Prince Charming who is informed of a beautiful maiden lying in a glass coffin deep in the Enchanted Forest. He recognizes 'Snow White' and her sheer beauty mesmerizes the Prince who kisses her in sadness. The evil powers break and the beautiful Princess awaken from her deep sleep! Prince Charming rides away to his kingdom with 'Snow White' as his bride.

Speaking to the press, Director Nusrath Ghazzali said "Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs decided to go on stage as we wanted to involve the students in a production they would enjoy and come out with their inborn talents. It took four months to choose the right characters and most of the main cast are in their debut roles. Our youngest children go on stage as flowers, butterflies, bees and bunnies and they do a wonderful job," she said. Further speaking, she expressed gratitude towards the Management of Musaeus College for placing the confidence of her abilities to produce and direct a show of this magnitude. She also thanked all teachers who rendered immense support for the show.

The Choral Director for the play is Vindya Ethiligoda, assisted by Rangi Hewawasam and Chathurangi Siriwardhena. The Choreographer for the production is Manik Neydorff.

The enchanting flow of music, delightful dances, exquisite costumes, lifelike background props will make it a brilliant production. The Walt Disney version has been adjusted to suit the little kids who are under 11 years of age.

'Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs' will be able to take us all to that beautiful moment of time, many many years ago, when magic was alive in the land of Fairy Tales!

The waiting begins

- Part 7

By Uncle Sachi and Aunt Ruwi

In 'Kid's Den'...

Four children, Pramodaka, Nalaka, Champika and Chinthaka, go on a trip to the woods with their parents for their school holidays. In the middle of the night, the children are awakened by a strange noise.

On following their dog, Scooby, Chinthaka is snared by the spell of the 'luring stones'. Pramodaka departs with Ruwi, a pixie, to recall a book of spell to cast off the spell while the others remain behind with Sachi, a gnome. A storm breaks and the kids are scattered.

Meanwhile Sulo, the goblin who is always trying to make trouble for the mythical creatures, comes up with a nasty plan. She rushes off gang up the rest of her pack and reveals an age old secret.

However the group discovers that it is not only Sulo's secret that is uncovered by the storm. Something dark and deadly had been hidden in the depths of the earth waiting to release itself and return for revenge...

('Return of the Kids' is the sequel to 'Kid's Den')

He tried to remember when the trouble had begun. It had been a few months with some minor incidents. Some of the scrolls in his office which Basu was supposed to hand over to the others had gone missing. Only a few of the leaders had keys to the cupboard.

Russell admitted after a short silence that he had sent Kapu to get the scrolls but he could not remember where he had left them.

"But then, Russell is careless at most times..." Jay thought. He did not believe that Russell was up to any tricks. His only weakness was his own laziness and he had been lazy and a slow mover as long as Jay could remember.

"No wonder he has some helper from time to time to help him out with his work... Now what was her name? Ah, Samba, that's what. Of course Sachi, Ruwi and Emida are there to look after him too but their hands are full as well," he thought.

Ronnie's form appeared in front of him. The elderly elf got back into his chair and heaved a sigh.

"I have dispatched the messages. They will be here soon."

No sooner had he spoken there were excited voices from the distance. A stout gnome names Gerry appeared along with his wife Annie. A very bad tempered and rather prickly looking Dudders hopped up followed by Angela the chipmunk and Juddy the badger. More mythical creatures and animals followed. Reggie, Emmie and Bandy the brownies and Anmot the pixie also stepped in.

"We have to wait for HE and Pradesh," Jay said shortly.

Dudder's scowl deepened. He cast an impatient look behind him to see if the others are coming. Meanwhile all the others who are on much friendlier terms with those who are already present began chatting among themselves. Gerry and Annie moved over to Russell's side.

"What is this I hear about Dina?" a worried looking Russell inquired.

"Not to worry. She is with the Graceful one. Remember what happened to Sulo some time back? Strange things are happening," Annie whispered back.

"Where is Sachi and Ruwi? I have asked them not to go around the woods on deeds in the mornings. They disappear and there is no one to look after these things..." Russell sounded upset all of a sudden.

He knew that Ruwi and Sachi had more than enough things to do on their hands but it is always nice to dump all the deeds on them and relax.

"Didn't you hear the news? It's Sachi's time to leave for the yearly visit to the human world. Admin was looking for him. Roy signed the letter himself before me when I was at his home yesterday," Gerry said.

Russell looked thoughtful but even he had to admit that the visit is a necessity.

"It's just bad timing. Well, there are still the others to look after the work. Thankfully Emida is on the recovery process..." he thought.

The group tensed as a figure loomed from far away.

"I can't believe he still trusts him after all he did to us...," Annie whispered to Iza.

Russell gave one look towards the goblin before turning a blind eye upon him. He loathed Pradesh.

To be continued

Art

Competition

All around the world the World Religion Day is being observed and celebrated the 3rd week of January. Every year "this year January 17, 2010."

This year the Bahai community of Sri Lanka together with Inter Religious Committee of Sri Lanka has organised an art competition open to children of two age categories.

A dance item presented by children of the Little Kids Montessori in Kalutara North recently.

Singithi Rangum the annual concert of Visakha Vidyalaya Colombo 5 was staged at the school hall recently. Here the students of Year 3D performing a dance item which was organised by the class teacher Swarna Malkanthi.





