Pakistan slump in final Test

Pakistan's hopes of salvaging the final Test against Australia looked bleak as they ended day two on 94-4, trailing by 425 runs in the first innings.

Ricky Ponting (209) and Michael Clarke (166) shared 352, the second-highest fourth-wicket partnership in Australian Test history as they declared on 519-8.

Pakistan, who trail 2-0 in the series, self-destructed with two run-outs.

Salman Butt (34 not out) was involved in the dismissals of both captain Mohammad Yousuf (7) and Umar Akmal (8).

Yousuf's dismissal came after he played a superb off-drive off Doug Bollinger and, having run two, called for a legitimate third run.

However, Butt refused to run at the non-striker's end and his skipper was left stranded.

A few overs later, Butt again refused to run, leaving teenager Umar heading back to the pavilion.

The tourists, who need another 226 runs to avoid the follow-on, were already in trouble after Peter Siddle had claimed the wickets of Imran Farhat (38) and Manzoor (0).

Pakistan captain Yousuf later branded team-mate Butt as "selfish".

"We are not playing for self, we are playing for country," said Yousuf. "I am 35 years old, he is 25 years old, why not take three runs?"

Earlier, Australia had completely dominated the Pakistan bowlers before Clarke was dismissed by leg spinner Danish Kaneria after lunch. Only the legendary Don Bradman and Bill Ponsford have compiled a bigger partnership for the fourth wicket, and they still hold the record of 388, set against England at Leeds in 1934.

Ponting went on to make 209, his third-highest Test score, and his best on his home ground, but his innings was ended by Mohammad Aamer, who had dropped him on day one when he had yet to score. Incredibly, Pakistan missed another opportunity to dismiss Ponting, with Imran Farhat dropping the captain at cover when he was on 167.

Australia's scoreboard continued to tick over even without Ponting and Clarke, with Brad Haddin - who was dropped by Sarfraz Ahmed on 19 - hitting 41 runs off 34 balls. BBC





