Thomians - Joes the key game this week end

Chris DHAMBARAGE

S. Thomas' College Mount Lavinia will be hoping to bring an end to a fifteen year long wait when they take on arch rivals St. Joseph's College in their 105th annual inter school under 19 cricket tournament match which begins at Darley Road today.

The match is played for the Gilmour Jayasuriya memorial trophy since 1993. However overall St. Joseph's College are ahead in the series with a tally of 24 victories to their credit against their opponents 17 wins.

The Thomians of course have not won since 1994 where they triumphed under the captaincy of Nilanka Peiris (Sr.) at Darley Road. The Josephians had the satisfaction of winning the 1998 encounter under the leadership of Monto Perera at Mount Lavinia.

The late Gilmour Jayasuriya first represented S. Thomas' College as a left arm fast bowler before moving to St. Joseph's College. He was instrumental in helping the Darley Road school led by Fairlie Dalpathado be beat a strong Thomian outfit in 1943 which was captained by Vernon Prince.

This year S. Thomas' College have experienced mixed fortunes where they suffered a humiliating defeat at the hands of Ananda College before bouncing back to beat Wesley College by nine wickets to retain the M. Sathasivam Trophy.

In contrast St. Joseph's College have recorded outright victories against two weak opponents Isipatana College and Maris Stella College Negombo while drawing against Wesley, St. Sebastian's, St. Benedict's , D. S. Senanayake College, Royal College and Trinity College last week.

Royal v Dharmaraja

Royal College will be hoping to register their seventh outright victory this season when they take on Dharmaraja College Kandy in their inter school under 19 cricket tournament match which begins at Reid Avenue today. Royal College are fresh after their brave performance against the formidable Ananda College team last week where they were able to register a historic 94 run victory after a lapse of 24 years.

Now they are well set to extend their dominance and pull off another victory with all their key players in good form. The success for Royal this year has been their excellent teamwork where most of their players have been able to contribute in a significant manner in almost every outing.

Ananda v St. Anthony's

Ananda College will be hoping to redeem their lost prestige when they take on St. Anthony's College in their inter school under 19 cricket tournament match which begins at Katugastota today.

The Anandians are still recovering following a shock defeat at the hands of Royal College on their home grounds a couple of days ago. They will be hoping to put aside that setback and concentrate more on the game in an attempt to register another outright victory.

The cynosure of all eyes will be on Ananda College skipper and Sri Lanka youth cap Dinesh Chandimal who has just completed one thousand runs for the current inter school cricket season. However he will be up against a completely different bowling attack with the Antonians determined to maintain their unbeaten record at home.

St. Peter's v Maris Stella

St. Peter's College will face an acid test when they confront the giant killers Maris Stella College Negombo in their inter school Under-19 cricket tournament match which commences at Bambalapitiya today.

The Peterites will start as the favourites simply for their track record this season and the amount of senior players in the line up. However Maris Stella College have been able to make their mark this season on more than a couple of occasions with their outright victory against St. Benedict's College last week as the main highlight.





