Lanka needs shopping, entertainment ideas

Managing a five star hotel in the heart of the commercial city Colombo is not an easy task. How does an ex-pat feel working in a different atmosphere and with local employees?

In an interview with Daily News Business, General Manager, Hilton Colombo William Costley speaks about his experiences in the Sri Lankan hospitality industry.

What are this year's plans for Hilton?

We started celebrating 21 years in Sri Lanka last September. We will continue activities in the next few months. At the moment a few renovations are taking place. We are also planning to renovate the rooms this year. We will extend the seafood concept and the Curry Leaf. Our aim is to promote Sri Lankan cuisine and culture.

What is Sri Lanka's potential in tourism?

Short-term tourism is going to be tough. There is a great potential in long-term tourism. To reach the full potential, road infrastructure, airports, the high way to Kandy and easy access to the Cultural Triangle are essential. Basic improvements should be done. Hotels are categorised according to the facilities. There are hotels in Sri Lanka to suit the client's budget. If the tourism sector reaches full potential, skilled workforce that leaves for the Middle East will decrease. Immigration will also decrease.

Is the location of Hilton suitable to attract crowds?

Hilton is in the heart of Sri Lanka's commercial city. It is a fantastic location.

There are lots of companies around. It is great. We cater to both businessmen and tourists coming down for leisure.

What do you think of the leisure and entertainment sector in Sri Lanka?

In countries such as Singapore and Dubai, there are several shopping malls. In Sri Lanka shopping is limited. There are aquariums, theme parks, water parks, skiing and play parks in other countries. Here there is limited family entertainment. Sri Lanka is more focused on beach and historical places.

How do you analyse the standard of local employees?

I have been in Sri Lanka for many years and has had a lot of exposure. In Sri Lanka the level of English is higher.

For example Thailand welcome around 20 million tourists but their English is very poor. Tourism goes like a roller coaster. English is a big asset. Hospitality there is a smile on the faces even during the hard times.

Which areas should Sri Lanka concentrate on for tourism in future?

A proper marketing strategy should be developed. All stakeholders should put together a market strategy. Sri Lanka is a great place to relax and is rich in cultural heritage. It is a small country with lot of assets and a lot to offer. There should be a proper strategic marketing plan. If infrastructure is improved tourist arrivals will double.

The Southern airport will be a plus factor for tourism. Shopping malls, good cinemas, museums and leisure parks should be created to attract new tourists.

I have enjoyed being in Sri Lanka. I love working here. The year ahead is tough. We will progress forward giving the best to our guest.

My Boss

Executive Secretary, Hilton Colombo, Heather Mendis said it is comfortable working under an ex-pat.

"Basically I have to handle secretary functions and cooperate with others. Work is really interesting. Working has been a learning experience right throughout.

"I have been working with around eight General Managers since the inception of Hilton in 1987. All of them have been really nice to work with," she said.





