Achini Ratnasiri badminton's newest phenomenon

Angu Rajendran

Every now and then, there comes a sportsman or sportswoman who truly gains from playing a sport - a personality so modest, so respectful, so devoid of any hubris and yet intense, determined and confident.

This is Achini Ratnasiri the youngest National Badminton Champion at fifteen years of age. This O level student of Visakha Vidyalaya stands with calmness written on her chiseled features while her whole stance emanates energy. The outward calmness disguises the coiled up energy that is about to spring.

She has just defeated the National Champion of ten years – 35 year- old veteran, Chandrika de Silva in straight sets at the final of Sri Lanka's National Badminton Championships. Of her game in the final – Achini says 'I was confident of winning'.

She had a lot of encouragement from her school coach Danesh who told her that she was faster, stronger and definitely could play without making any mistakes.

As the game started, Achini says that she was very surprised by the many mistakes that Chandrika was making. But then she immediately covers it with -'I don't know if I am getting better or that she is losing her touch after winning so many matches in so many years.'

Anyhow the time has come for a young new champion to take over. She also beat Olympian Thilini Jayasinghe in the semi-finals. She widens her eyes in surprise at her own performance in three sets against Thilini where the fast paced game that she played helped her win.

Her family and up-bringing refuse to allow her to gloat or boast about her incredible achievement at such a young age. She is very matter of fact about her win. She does not have a personal coach. Never has had one. She used to watch her older sister Ruwini Chathurika play badminton at Lindsay Girls' School every practice session. Looking at her, the teacher in charge told her mother to start off the nine year old Achini on badminton.

She played three times a week with Lindsay Girls' School's coach Srimal Aponso until she joined Visakha Vidyalaya last year. Now, as a member of the National pool, coach Pushpakumara and physical trainer Jayathilake play a big role in helping her develop her game. She is playing better than ever before. Her weakness in her short serve has almost been ironed out.

'My strength' she says with a smile is the 'chop' shot. She practices very hard at it and is the 'chop specialist'. This shot helps speed up her game and makes it very difficult for an opponent who does not have too much stamina.

About her game, Achini says with child-like intensity 'my being left-handed is definitely a big advantage.' Usually most badminton players have a weak back-hand and the opponent tries to use that weakness to their advantage. In her case, however, it has always been very difficult for the opponent to figure out that what they think is her back hand is really her forehand.

Badminton is also very much a mind-game. You need to assess the strengths and weaknesses of your opponent as you play. Achini says that usually when she looks at the way a person walks and stands, she can make out what kind of player her opponent is.

In Sri Lanka badminton is fast gaining National and International recognition. That they even 'went on various International coaching camps and have won gold medals for the doubles at the Asian Junior Championships in 2008 is because of the interest and support that the new President of the Sri Lanka Badminton Association Ranjith de Silva has shown' says Achini.

Achini is the Under 17 National Age group Triple Crown champion as well. (Winner of singles, doubles and mixed doubles) and is sponsored by Yonex with regard to her racquets and shoes. However, in Sri Lanka, playing badminton alone cannot take you far in life. 'Studies are very important' says young Achini.

'I would love to play in the Olympics and World Championships but my O levels loom in the horizon. I do want to get a gold medal at the SAAF Games in February in Bangladesh. But as I am young and inexperienced, maybe I may not do so but that does not deter me. I will use this experience well till I can get a gold medal for my country. I will watch the other countries play and see if and how they are better' says Achini determinedly.

She knows that she has to do well in her O levels and then Advanced levels. She does not have a mobile phone and does not watch TV. She wants to become an accountant but is keen to get a gold medal in a world championship before she settles down to a regular life of making a living. Badminton has taught her modesty and gratitude. Most of all gratitude to those including her Principal, teachers, coaches and parents who have helped her achieve National status.

Achini is very unlike the unscrupulous 'I must win come what may' sportsman with a killer instinct that one usually sees in a young person who has become the Number One.





