Online edition of Daily News - Lakehouse NewspapersSriLankan Airlines received the highest number of awards of any single company at the Second Annual Presidential Awards for Travel and Tourism, winning three of the major categories that were presented. Sri Lanka's National Carrier won the categories of "Airline of the Year", "Outbound Tour Operator", and "Tourism Education and Training Effort". The Presidential Awards for Travel and Tourism are the country's highest annual accolades to organisations and individuals who have excelled in the development of tourism in Sri Lanka, and whose outstanding contributions play a significant role in the success of the tourism industry. It is conducted by the Ministry of Tourism and Sri Lanka Tourism. 

 SriLankan Airlines Acting Chairman, Nishanta Wickremasinghe, receiving the 'Airline of the Year' award from the Prime Minister, Ratnasiri Wickramanayaka, at the Presidential Travel and Tourism Awards, at the BMICH, Minister of Tourism, Milinda Moragoda is also in the picture. Acting Chairman of SriLankan Airlines, Nishanta Wickremasinghe said: "SriLankan Airlines has traditionally been a pioneer in many aspects of the country's tourism industry, and we are delighted to win these accolades for our efforts. The National Carrier has always been a pillar of strength which the entire country relies upon, and this is especially so of the tourism industry." SriLankan was chosen as Airline of the Year for its overall contribution to the country's tourism industry. Its leisure arm SriLankan Holidays won the category of Outbound Tour Operator for its work in making overseas travel affordable and convenient to Sri Lankan travellers. The International Aviation Academy, the airline's training wing, took honours for its work in providing comprehensive training in various aspects of civil aviation and tourism. CEO of SriLankan, Manoj Gunawardena said: "The awards showcase the strength and the diversity of SriLankan Airlines; SriLankan is not just an airline, but has diverse businesses in inbound and outbound travel, airline training, and many more areas." Sri Lanka's Prime Minister, Ratnasiri Wickremanayaka, MP, was the Chief Guest at the gala event at the Bandaranaike Memorial International Conference Hall in Colombo on January 26. The audience included Minister of Tourism, Milinda Moragoda, MP, Deputy Minister of Tourism Faizer Mustapha, MP, former Deputy Minister of Tourism, Arjuna Ranatunga, MP, and members of the country's tourism industry. Acting Chairman, SriLankan Airlines, Nishanta Wickremasinghe received the awards on behalf of the National Carrier. Sri Lanka's award-winning carrier brings the largest number of tourists into Sri Lanka from around the world. It now flies to 41 destinations in 25 countries throughout Europe, the Middle East the Subcontinent, and the Far East. SriLankan Holidays promises travellers a 'World of Memories' with all-inclusive package tours in more than 30 cities in South Asia, Southeast Asia, the Far East, Middle East, and Europe. It has evolved in recent years to become one of the country's largest players in both the inbound and outbound tourism industries. The International Aviation Academy serves the manpower requirements of not just SriLankan but airlines, airports, travel agents and other aviation industry organizations throughout Asia, with comprehensive programmes in both technical and soft skills. Emirates Airline announced that it would begin operating its ultra-modern and environmentally-friendly A380 aircraft to Seoul's Incheon International Airport in November 2009. The new service is timed to coincide with Visit Korea Year in 2010, where the national government and the city of Seoul are joining forces with the private sector to promote South Korea as a destination for international tourism. The new service represents the aviation world's first A380 operation to Seoul, as well as Emirates' first A380 service to North East Asia. It follows the successful deployment of Emirates' A380s to New York and London, and soon to be launched Sydney and Auckland. Trade between South Korea and the UAE has grown by more than 150% over the past five years and is now worth over USD16 billion dollars a year. Growing economic relations is the result of a series of joint initiatives including the visit of Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, to South Korea, and subsequent visits by the Korean Chamber of Commerce and Industry to the UAE. The Samsung Corporation is currently completing construction of the world's tallest building, the Burj Dubai, which will open later this year. South Korean exports to the UAE grew by over 50% in the first half of 2008 compared to the same period in 2007. Emirates' leading export goods from South Korea in 2008 were mobile phones headed for Dubai and the Middle East. Emirates' A380 service will also support the South Korean government's drive to make Incheon International Airport a major Asian hub. "Seoul has been an extremely successful market for Emirates since we introduced services in 2005. In 2004 just 37,000 passengers a year travelled between Dubai and Seoul whereas today it is over 260,000. This new aircraft will allow us to further develop this market as well as encourage more tourism and trade to South Korea," the Chairman and Chief Executive of Emirates Airline and Group, H.H Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed Al-Maktoum said. "Incheon International Airport has invested significantly to prepare its infrastructure for A380 operations and we thank them and our ground handlers, Swissport, for their hard work to ensure the airport is so well equipped for our A380," Sheikh Ahmed added. The President and CEO of Incheon International Airport, CW Lee said: "This is an important milestone for the future of Incheon and aviation in South Korea. We have made major investments worth USD 4 billion to prepare the airport for the A380 and we are very happy to be soon welcoming this important aircraft. "Incheon has won the world's best customer service award three years in a row and introducing the A380 to Seoul will ensure the customer experience continues to blossom," Lee added. Swissport Korea President, J.W. Kim noted: "Incheon International Airport will be ready and well prepared for the A380 with new push-back tugs and de-icing equipment amongst other investments. Our specially trained staff are looking forward to welcoming the world's most advanced new aircraft to South Korea." 

 Last week's winner Rukshan Senanayake receiving his ticket to Singapore from Sales and Marketing Manager, Cathay Pacific Airways Colombo Ruhan Abbas flanked by Sales Supervisor Pravinth Thavarajatheepan and Marketing Services Executive Nishara Silva. Two lucky listeners of Yes FM Morning Drive Time have the opportunity to win an air ticket each from Cathay Pacific at a special price this week by playing a simple bidding game on-air for the ticket. The winners have a choice of destinations: Hong Kong or Shanghai, Beijing or Xiamen in China where they can enjoy the Chinese New Year festivities. "Next week, two more lucky winners can fly off to Bangkok and it would be the third week in succession that Cathay Pacific has rewarded listeners with attractively priced air tickets," said Sales Manager, Cathay Pacific Airways, Ruhan Abbas. "The popular drive time on-air competition has proved to be tremendously exciting for listeners who can look forward to a surprise holiday at an exciting Asian city with Cathay Pacific flying them to the destination,"she said. SriLankan Airlines is enhancing its service to travellers between Pakistan and Sri Lanka by launching direct flights between Colombo and Karachi. The twice-weekly service on Wednesdays and Sundays is intended for the convenience of business and trade travellers between the two South Asian countries. Nearly 20,000 people travel between Sri Lanka and Pakistan each year. The convenient three hours 30 minute flights, which commenced on 18th January, have replaced the existing service which flies via Mumbai. Karachi is Pakistan's largest city. Being a port city, it is filled with commercial activity, and is also Pakistan's most cosmopolitan metropolis. It is a classic mix of the old and the new and has a number of high-end hotels, restaurants offering exotic food and bustling markets to keep tourists busy. It is a 2-hour flight from Islamabad, Pakistan's capital. Sri Lanka's award-winning National Carrier currently has a network of 41 destinations in 25 countries throughout Europe, the Middle East, the Subcontinent, and the Far East. It offers rapid and convenient connections to East and West through its hub in Colombo.



