Online edition of Daily News - Lakehouse NewspapersThe 63rd A.G.M. of the Kandy Buddhist Association, (K.B.A) along with a commemorative ceremony to mark its Founders day January 29, 1945 was held in the K.B.A. Hall, Kandy recently. The participants included the large membership, both past and present and a pioneer member of the Association R.C. Thadani, Justice of Peace. The Chief Guest was L.B. Aluvihare, Mayor of Kandy and the Guest of Honour was Ven. Madagama Dhammananda Thera of the Asgiriya Temple, Kandy, Director of Success Sri Lanka. K. P. Jinasena the Secretary, K.B.A, Former Registrar - Law Courts in his address said that the Association, a prominent Buddhist organisation in Kandy with a recorded history of over six decades, was established on January 29, 1945 at the time of the Second World War (1939-1945), when Kandy was occupied as the headquarters of the Allied Forces of the South East Asia Command under Admiral Lord Louis Mounbatten. He said it was also the time that a Dutch National, Bhikku Dharmapala in lay life Henry Van Zeyst residing in Kandy who pioneered in the founding of the Association. The inaugural meeting he said was held at Dharmaraja College, Kandy with Sir E. A. H. Wijewardena, Puisne Judge of the Supreme Court chairing the meeting along with the participation of a galaxy of eminent Buddhists of many walks of life. The Association caters to all grades of personnel, children, youths and elders. The fundamental objective had been to impart the teachings of the Buddha to the public and promote and foster social activities. The association has during the past 63 years not only promoted and fostered these traditions but in addition and in keeping with its motto 'Kammah Bhavetic Anagato' has activated its members to establish a Children's Home at Mavilmada in 1979, a Library of Buddhist literature started in 1946, an Annual Oratorial and Essay Competition for children started in 1956, the Dhamma and Meditation Classes started in 1980. The Kandy Humanitarian Organisation to spread the message of love and compassion started in 1991, and Elders Home 'The Sarana Sevana Elders Home' in Mavilmada providing accommodation to 35 inmates in 1999. The K.B.A. in association with HelpAge, Sri Lanka maintains a Help-A-Gran Scheme as a supportive arm for poor elders who are the beneficiaries of the extended family system that still prevail according to the Eastern cultural practices. The International Community too have displayed their appreciation for the commitment and dedication of the Association in the running and maintenance of the various projects by providing much needed financial assistance to tide over difficult times. Dr. C. Godamunne, President K.B.A. in his address revoked the memory of H.B. Kirimetiya Dissawa who was the former owner of the present K.B.A. building and said that it needed urgent repairs as it is in a collapsible state and requested for public help in the matter. The Anusasana was delivered by Ven. Madagama Dhammananda Thera and the vote of thanks was proposed by Gamini Samaratunga, Assistant Secretary, Attorney-at-Law. Finally a photograph of the Late C.E. Jayasinghe former President, K.B.A. and R.C. Thadani was also unveiled by L.B. Aluvihare, the Mayor of Kandy on the occasion.



