Parliament fetes Murali

Parliament yesterday accorded a warm reception to champion off spinner Muttiah Muralitharan who recently became the world record holder for Test wickets.

Speaker W. J. M. Lokubandara felicitated and welcomed Murali and the Sri Lankan cricket team. Later, the Sri Lankan cricketers took their seats in the VIP Gallery in Parliament.

The Speaker said he welcomed Murali - who bagged 709 wickets for the world record- the present Sri Lankan team, members of the 1996 World Cup winning side and the runners up in the 2007 edition.

The Speaker expressed his warm wishes and congratulated Murali who set a new world record by overtaking Aussie legend Shane Warne.

Prime Minister Ratnasiri Wickremanayaka said sportsmen bring international fame to the country and similarly Murali had also placed the country on a pedestal by his record breaking feat."

I wish Murali and the Sri Lankan cricket team more and more victories and bring more fame to Sri Lanka.

Opposition Leader Ranil Wickremesinghe said Murali came to this position within a short period of time.

"Murali and our Sri Lankan cricket team have carved a niche for himself on cricketing canvass as well as putting Sri Lanka on the world map. Murali who hailed from Kandy has established a new world record. We are pleased to join in this felicitation ceremony for Murali and the Sri Lankan Cricket team by expressing our warm wishes."

JVP Parliamentary Group Leader MP Wimal Weerawansa said all the people who love this country also love the Sri Lankan Cricket team. The Sri Lankan Cricket team is a group who have achieved so many victories through their unity. Murali has brought honour and fame to the country through this unity.

Our team has been able to defeat many powerful cricket sides including those who introduced cricket to the world. If the politicians have been unable to bring fame to the country, our sportsmen have done this in ample measure.

UPFA MP Arjuna Ranatunga who guided Murali in his career said as a cricketer who represented the Sri Lankan Cricket team he was extremely happy to be part of the felicitation ceremony organised for Murali and the Sri Lankan Cricket team. Murali is a very important figure who has brought great fame to the country." At present our young cricketers are also playing well in the international arena."

Science and Technology Minister Prof. Tissa Vitharana said Murali established the world record in spite of many difficulties he had to face. Murali first showed his 'colours' as a bowler in a cricket match between Trinity college and St. Anthony's College.

His coach was Sunil Fernando at that time. But Murali never forgot his coach whenever he visited Kandy.

His qualities are an example to the youth of our country.

SLMC Leader MP Rauff Hakeem said he congratulates Murali who set a new world record by breaking the existing world record."

Cricket is the only consolation we have today. I also congratulate Arjuna Ranatunga who has been appointed as the Head of the Sri Lanka Cricket.

Arjuna brought Murali under his tutelage who later brought fame to the country."

Deputy Chairman of Committees Ramalingam Chandraseker said Murali, a son of the hill country was able to achieve his world record at the Asgiriya stadium." At present our people have divided themselves into groups based on ethnicity.

Murali is a symbol who has been able to promote unity among all Sri Lankans. Therefore, we all should follow his example."





