Business Aviation

Mihin continues to Male, Dubai and Far East

Shirajiv SIRIMANE

Mihin Air, Sri Lanka's low cost airline is planning to launch their European destination this year. The airline was initially planning to fly to Italy, mainly to attract the high Sri Lankan expatriates.

Presently passengers from Italy have to fly to Qatar, Dubai or be in transit in other destinations before flying to Colombo. "We see a market from a direct flight," and official said. "We are now awaiting for approval," he said.

Mihin Air hostesses in service

He said that the airline is continuing with their operations to the Maldives, Gulf and Far East. Mihin Lanka deploys A321 aircraft for these operations with Turkish pilots.

The airline, which operated mainly to cater to the local migrant workers who are presently forced to spend heavily for their passage to Dubai, now continues to operate five flights a week to Dubai. Mihin Lanka is offering the lowest airfare, which is around 35 per cent, less than the usual fares and this is a major incentive for migrant workers.

In addition, the airline has a twice a week frequency to the Maldives.

In a bid to introduce low cost travel to the public, Mihin Lanka operates three flights a week each to both Bangkok and Singapore.

Visa on arrival and the shopping offers make Singapore an attractive destination. There are many Sri Lankans who take extensions from Singapore to Malaysia, once again taking advantage of the Visa on arrival offered to Sri Lankans from Malaysia at the Singapore border. (By paying US $ 35.)

The enhanced cargo allowance offered to both these destinations is another attraction. Indian operations would recommence soon.

Passenger demand surges to 18-month high

The International Air Transport Association (IATA) released traffic results for November 2007. The highlights are Year-on-year international passenger demand rose 9.3 per cent in November-the fastest growth rate recorded in 18 months.

This is higher than the 7.7% growth recorded in October and the 7.5% growth recorded over the first 11 months of 2007.

Average international passenger load factors were 75.4% in November, 1.1 percentage points higher than in November 2006.

Passenger demand results were strong across most regions. Asia Pacific (8.8%), North America (7.6%) and Europe (7.6%) all saw robust growth in November with no sign yet of any weakening in demand as a result of economic uncertainty.

Latin American carriers recorded a 20.1% increase reflecting a strong recovery in traffic share following the impact of industry restructuring during 2006 Middle East carriers continued four years of double-digit growth with an 18.3% increase.

African carriers' growth slowed to 5.8% largely due to weaker demand in southern Africa and strong competition in long-haul markets.

Freight growth continues to be sluggish, reflecting strong competition with sea shipping and uncertainty over the economic outlook for 2008: International freight demand growth slowed to 3.5% in November, down from 3.6% in October. Over the first 11 months of 2007 freight demand grew 3.9%, well below the 4.8% recorded over the same period in 2006.

The November surge in passenger demand has been critical in combating high oil prices and helping airlines end 2007 with an industry profit of US$5.6 billion-the first since 2000. But against a backdrop of robust world trade, sluggish freight growth continued to be a disappointment."

"We ring in 2008 with a warning bell. Passenger demand growth is expected to fall to 5.0%. And the expected increase in freight demand growth to 4.3% will only help us recover some of the ground lost against sea shipping. High oil prices and the impact of the credit crunch will see industry profitability slip to US$5.0 billion in 2008.

Since 2001 efficiency gains have been impressive: 64% improvement in labour productivity, 25% reduction in sales and marketing unit costs and a 16% decrease in non-fuel unit costs. The challenge for 2008 will be much more of the same-efficiency everywhere," said Bisignani.

Singapore Airlines to begin operations at terminal 3 on 9th

On 9 January 2008, Singapore Airlines becomes the first carrier to operate from Changi Airport Terminal 3.

Operations will start close to noon, with SQ 001 being the first flight scheduled to arrive at the new terminal at approximately 1150 hours.

SQ 318, bound for London, will be the first flight to depart from Terminal 3 at 1250 hours. Terminal 3 check-In counters will be operational from 0900 hours.

With effect from January 9th, Singapore Airlines will operate from both Terminals 2 and 3, and the commencement of services from the new terminal marks an expansion of Singapore Airlines operations at Changi Airport.

"The addition of Terminal 3 is another jewel in the crown for Changi as it cements its position as a leading international hub.

Singapore Airlines is excited to be part of its growth, and we are confident that the new terminal will complement our operations at Terminal 2," said Singapore Airlines Senior Vice President Product and Services, Yap Kim Wah.

"Customers will now enjoy the benefits of having access to two world-class terminals - state-of-the-art facilities, modern design, thoughtful service and of course, more choice.

Needless to say, we are extremely honoured to be the first airline to start using Terminal 3, and we're sure our customers are equally looking forward to being the first to enjoy such a world-class facility," said Yap.

With the expansion of services, customers departing from Changi Airport will check-in at Terminal 2 or 3 for their flights, depending on their destination.

Flights may arrive at either Terminal 2 or 3, and information on the arrival terminal will be available at least two hours prior to the estimated arrival time.





