Madiwala hails President's decision on 13th Amendment

Western Province Provincial Council UNP Member Lawrence Madiwala welcomed the decision of President Mahinda Rajapaksa to implement the 13th Amendment to the Constitution which gave rise to the setting up of Provincial Councils.

Making a statement at the WPC meeting on Wednesday, Madiwala said that President Mahinda Rajapaksa recently emphasised the need to end the ethnic war and bring about peace by acting according to the Indo-Lanka Accord.

We owe our gratitude to him for appreciating late President J.R. Jayewardene's efforts to devolve power through Provincial Councils set up under the 13th Amendment to the Constitution by signing the Indo-Lanka Accord with the then Indian Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi.

"It is pertinent to emphasise that political parties which opposed the setting up of Provincial Councils at that time are today handling the administration by capturing power in the Provincial Councils, they themselves opposed.

The untold hardships caused to people in the North and East due to the cruel ethnic war which had dragged on for many years need no emphasis. An unlimited number of lives have been lost in the South due to bomb explosions carried out by the terrorists.

A countless number of families of war heroes including police personnel are undergoing suffering due to the loss of their kith and kin in the war.

Economic nerve centres like the Central Bank, Bandaranaike Airport and the Kolonnawa oil installations and religious centres such as the Jaya Sri Maha Bodhi and the Sri Dalada Maligawa were targeted by terrorists causing losses amounting to billions of rupees.

We should all appreciate the services rendered by the Security Forces and police through their efforts to defeat terrorism and usher in peace for the country.

I wish to state with responsibility that the President and his Government put forward an acceptable devolution structure to overcome terrorism and establish peace. The UNP will extend its support and co-operation for its implementation without any political bias.

But we are doubtful whether certain political parties which are shareholders of this Government are supporting it at this juncture to make this effort a success.

Dawn of peace will also enable Sri Lankans to lead a peaceful life without fear or suspicion and the country to increase foreign exchange earnings through enhanced tourist arrivals," he said.





