SSC keep their hopes alive of retaining the Tier 'A' Title

Chris DHAMBARAGE

SSC kept their hopes alive of retaining the Tier A title for the second successive year with a sensational eight wicket outright victory over Moors SC in their SLC Premier League encounter worked off at Maitland Place last week.

SSC played like a true champion side to collect full points after they had conceded first innings points to their opponents quite surprisingly. But they proved that they mean business with a magnificent batting performance that took them home safely.

No team had earlier chased over three hundred runs and won a match outright so convincingly like the SSC team performed in this important encounter. They came into this game under tremendous pressure while facing a must win situation to stay alive in the competition.

Their hopes were completely shattered in the beginning after they collapsed to a disappointing 126 runs in the first innings. Their top order batsmen simply threw away a great opportunity of putting up a big total after the bowlers had performed their role to near perfection. Any other side would have certainly given up hopes under these circumstances as it required great courage and determination to make a comeback. SSC in fact had all those ingredients and they simply underlined their superiority by producing a determined batting performance that took them towards their victory target of 307.

That was achieved mainly due to the individual brilliance of Sri Lanka cap Thilan Samaraweera and skipper Tharanga Paranavithana with both completing unbeaten centuries. The pair gave a fine exhibition of batting through the fourth innings while putting on a massive 283 runs for the unfinished third wicket.

Colts CC v Bloomfield

Meanwhile Colts CC took another step closer towards winning the Tier A title with a stunning outright victory over Bloomfield in their SLC Premier League tournament match worked off at Havelock Park last week.

In fact Colts CC pulled off the game in identical fashion like the defending champions SSC overcame Moors SC after conceding first innings points. The difference with Colts CC was that they were able to complete their task within two days as their final victory target was only 193 runs.

Even then Colts CC were up against some quality bowling and went through some anxious moments before they scraped home with four wickets to spare. Their success would have been more significant had they reached their target while losing a few number of wickets.

Nevertheless Colts CC would take this as one of their greatest triumphs this season considering the situation they were on the opening day of the match. They were skittle out for a mere 87 runs in reply to Bloomfield›s modest first innings total of 159 as a total of 23 wickets tumbled on a dramatic opening day.

The match turned into a psychological battle as both teams were determined to wrest the initiative on the second and decisive day. Colts CC certainly had more fire power in their bowling armory with dynamic all rounder Sajeewa Weerakoon delivering a match winning performance.

If his five wicket haul in the first innings mesmerized the Bloomfield batsmen then his seven wickets in the second innings completely turned the game in Colts CC›s favour.

This performance could be rated as one of the finest bowling efforts in the tournament considering the amount of pressure and the situation of the game.

CCC v Ragama CC

CCC held their nerves in a crunch game to beat Ragama CC outright by ten wickets in another key SLC Premier League Tier A tournament match worked off at Maitland Crescent last week.

CCC may yet not have a chance of winning the title but the fact is that they were able to create a great amount of damage on Ragama CC who at one stage were cruising along towards the biggest prize in the domestic scene.

As a result CCC have moved into the third place of the points table and will be looking to further strengthen their position when they take on Moors SC in their final outing of the tournament this weekend.

CCC made early inroads into the Ragama CC batting by dismissing them for just over two hundred runs in the first innings. The consistent fast bowler Sujeeva de Silva was responsible for the damage with a superb five wicket haul.

CCC then consolidated their position with a fine batting performance helped by Bathiya Perera›s third century for the current season. His knock of 113 was the cornerstone of their formidable total of 341 in which Charith Sylvester also made a useful half century.

Former Sri Lanka under 19 spinner Sachith Pathirana then produced a destructive spell of bowling to bundle out Ragama CC for just 146 runs in the second innings. Even then the manner in which Ragama CC surrendered to their opponents was quite disappointing having performed so well until this outing.

Tamil Union v Chilaw Marians SC

Tamil Union continued with their outstanding form as they coasted to a convincing first innings victory over Chilaw Marians SC in their SLC Premier League Tier A tournament match worked off at the P. Saravanamuttu Stadium last week.

This was a satisfying outing for Tamil Union who have proved once again that they are capable of coming out victorious even when the team is under tremendous pressure.

They had a tough task because Chilaw Marians SC had set them a challenge by piling up 366 runs in their first innings. This was no doubt a tall order although Tamil Union had the batting potential with them to overtake this total.

All they needed was someone to bat right through the innings and to play the sheet anchor role.

Tamil Union found a suitable batsman to perform this role in the form of Jeevan Mendis who did exactly what his team required by stroking a magnificent 125. As he kept one end occupied the runs simply began to flow from the other end through the bat of opener Sajith Fernando, Ashan Priyanjan and Isuru Udana.

Tamil Union not only went on to build up a substantial first innings lead but they also set an example of batting through the day without taking any undue risks. This is something which they have mastered in the last few games but unfortunately they are left with just one more match before the tournament concludes next week.

NCC v Army SC

NCC had the satisfaction of taking much needed first innings points in their SLC Premier League Tier A tournament match against Sri Lanka Army SC worked off at Panagoda last week.

NCC also redeemed some of their lost prestige although they will be disappointed for not been able to collect the maximum points. They of course set the platform for an outright victory by rattling up a massive 411 in their first innings.

However their hopes of forcing an outright victory was completely shattered by Nalaka Kaluarachchi who hammered a splendid 113 for Army SC in their first innings total of 282.

Army SC then added more embarrassment of their opponents by claiming seven wickets in the NCC second innings for just 129 runs.





