Harnessing skill for business success

Entrepreneurship is a skill that needs to be developed and by harnessing one's potential it could take you a long way. Jagro (Pvt) Ltd Director Indira Malwatte is a shining example in this regard.

Having served in the Sri Lanka Export Development Board (EDB) for 26 years and finally being the Director of product management, she quit Government service despite having 10 more years remaining for retirement.

She is now an active partner in a successful commercial venture. Jagro has given an opportunity for her to showcase her talents from 'preaching' to exporters to actually practise what she 'preached' all this time.

She was interviewed by Daily News Business.

Q. What is the type of your business and how did you venture into this?

Indira Malwatte. Picture by Sumanachandra Ariyawansa

A. I am a Director at Jagro(Pvt) Ltd, a 100 percent Sri Lankan owned company incorporated five years ago to grow high value export crops. It commenced operations by growing strawberry for the export market as well as to cater to the local demand.

The farms are in Nuwara Eliya and we adopt the world's most modern technology and new strawberry farming techniques to produce rich, sweet and aromatic berries with a perfect colour, texture and taste.

Combining private sector experience in a diversified blue chip company with my colleague and the experience I gained in the EDB in export marketing, together we have taken the company to great heights. In a short period of time we were successful in growing strawberry on a commercial scale to cater to the export market.

To compete successfully in the increasingly demanding and sophisticated export market for agro products, there was a need to respond to buyers' demands and to differentiate our product. It was important for us to conform to the highest levels of food quality and safety standards.

As a socially responsible company we became the first agricultural entity in Sri Lanka in the fruit and vegetable sector to be certified in GlobalGAP - safe and sustainable good agriculture practices. This included the requirements for safe strawberry that are produced, respecting worker health, safety and welfare, environmental and other issues.

The process is also ISO 22000 certified applying food safety assurances based on the farm to fork concept which is an added assessment tool for evaluating and ensuring premium quality fruit for the export and local markets.

Our objective is to enable consumers to have the option to buy quality berries from traceable and certified sources.

All our strawberry fruits supplied to buyers show that the berries are GlobalGAP and ISO 22000 certified.

The company also engages in manufacturing strawberry jam and dessert topping with no artificial colours or flavours using certified fresh strawberry - all grown at our farms. It's made of 100 percent pure fresh berries with no other fruit added.

Engaging the right persons for our operations is important. We were fortunate to have a team of highly motivated local agricultural graduates who have matched up to the international standards, in agronomy and food technology within our ranks.

Q. How do you balance family life and business?

A. It is time management and integrating work/life which is different to balancing work/life. You make your choices in life and I do not regret having worked since graduating and perfectly comfortable and happily employed. I am very fortunate to have a very supportive family. I share quality time with them.

They have never complained and I've never missed a school event when they were children. However, when it came to attending social/networking functions my husband and I were selective as to what was important and attended. I believe in an extended family as my children had my parents' constant attention. This is a blessing for working women.

Q. What are the challenges you faced?

A. It was a challenge to meet the technological advancement in modern farming-it's an ongoing process. We were also the pioneers in exporting strawberry to many countries where there were several non- tariff barriers and quarantine requirements to be met prior to entering these markets, such as undertaking Pest Risk Analysis exercises.

This involved not only the Department of Agriculture in our country but also in the countries that one wants to export to and that meant working with a lot of bureaucrats. For strawberry cultivation and to create the economies of scale required to make exports, a large extent of land is necessary in the right climatic zones. This slowed down our growth.

Among the other challenges were to export strawberry in good condition. Managing the cold chain from the time the berries are harvested to reaching the end consumer at a supermarket or fruit shop is certainly a challenge. Often it takes a 12 to 14 hour flight.

It is necessary to attend to every minute detail to ensure freshness. This requires 200 percent commitment. Whatever the challenges, when you work hard you can face it.

Q. What is your advice to women in business?

A. It is primarily three Ps - Be professionional, passionate and take pride in what you do. When you put your heart and soul you can achieve any target.

Know your work, be decisive, stay in control and use criticism constructively. I believe in a non confrontational approach and happier to rule by charm than by fear. Build the right environment-a vibrant workplace where everyone knows what they're doing, why and how to do it and set clear standards. Be a role model.

Q. What are your goals?

A. To be proud to be engaged in farming and to achieve Jagro's mission statement "To be the cutting edge organization in the field of agri business in Sri Lanka in terms of technology, human skills development, management and business practices and to be universally recognized.

Q. As a woman was it an advantage to be in business?

A. This did not matter at all. It's your capability and efficiency. One should be very knowledgeable to be on top of the business and to be successful.

You should have total control in whatever you do. Women have persuasive powers, greater patience and understanding and the ability to cope.

Q. What were your achievements in business and family?

A. It was a great achievement to be the first company in Sri Lanka to receive the GlobalGAP certification for fruits and vegetables and more recently to obtain ISO 22000 certification. Not merely obtaining the certificates but maintaining and complying with the quality and process standards. We have successfully pioneered the entry into new markets for fresh Sri Lanka produce through the export of fresh strawberries.

We present our brand 'Jagro' in a manner where the consumers understand who we are, what we do and what they purchase. Jagro is registered in Sri Lanka, India and Japan.

As a consumer brand staying close to our customers is essential.

With regard to the family, I am very happy with the support and encouragement I have given my husband. There is nothing one can't achieve if you put your heart and soul to it. My two children have done well in their studies and extra-curricular activities. We have helped them to pursue their dreams and that's the secret behind their success.

Q. What is your contribution to society?

A. I am a Director of the Agromart Foundation where assistance is provided for women in business especially in Kurunegala, Moneragala, Hambantota and Puttalam districts. I impart my knowledge to help them set up businesses. I am also the Vice President of the Visakha Vidyalaya Old Girls' Association.

The Association is conducting a number of projects to develop the English medium education stream in the school as most students leave school after the Ordinary Level examination due to lack of facilities to continue education in the English medium.

One of the most important projects I spearheaded was the Teacher-Student counselling program implemented with professional counsellors to 165 staff members which was highly appreciated by the principal and staff.

This was considered timely and important. I help the Vajira Home in many ways.

I am also heavily involved in the Lanka Fruit and Vegetable Producers and Processors Association. It is important to be socially responsible citizens as we are a part of society. Therefore, through the Association we encourage consumers to demand safe and quality food by undertaking consumer awareness programs by way of seminars and workshops.





