Online edition of Daily News - Lakehouse NewspapersSri Lanka Telecom (SLT), provided a total voice communication facility to the Atamasthana (the eight holy places) in the Anuradhapura.

Main reason behind this initiative was to minimize the cost of the communication needs among Atamasthana religious places. With establishing a secure and reliable communication network, these institutions can experience availability of communication services whenever the need arises.

The new communication facilities allow these religious institutes to communicate with relevant authorities and coordinate support services to ensure to facilitate pilgrim visitors' security, food and lodging, utility services etc.

Most prestigious Atamasthana religious places located at the Sri Maha Bodiya, Ruwanweliseya, Thuparamaya, Lovamahapaya, Abhayagiriya, Jetavanaramaya, Mirisavetiya and Lankaramaya. These are considered to be the most important places that a Buddhist pilgrim must visit in Anuradhapura.

An opening ceremony was held recently at the Ruwanweliseya where traditional religious activities took place under the auspices of Ruwanweli Saya Viharadhipathi, Pallegama Hemarathana Thera and Isurumuni Rajamaha Viharadhipathi Mahawa, Sri Sangarakkhitha Sumangala Nayaka Sthavira

Also participating in the ceremony were Director General/ Telecommunications Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka Priyantha Kariyapperuma, Chairperson/SLT Leisha De Silva Chandrasena, CEO/Sky Networks M B Herath and General Manager (New Business Development and Regulatory Matters)/SLT Prabhath Ambegoda and Assistant Director Consumer Relations of TRC Sriyani Mawellage.

The company's communication solution features a state-of-the-art PABX infrastructure as well as inter-branch voice communication via dedicated connectivity. This enables the minimization of the cost of communication among the 24 locations including Atamasthana religious places in the area.

This brings a world of opportunity to communicate with relevant authorities, as well as coordinating support services that will ensure the facilitation of pilgrim visitors', security and utility services.

In terms of geographical coverage, the communication solution provided direct connectivity to the Archeological Circuit Bungalow, the President's House, the Dutugemunu Pilgrims Rest, the Urban Development Office, the Cultural Triangle Laboratory, Jethawanarama Museum, the Buddhasrawaka Bhikku University, Archeological Museum as well as the Army Camps and Police Posts.



