D.S. shines in Lucknow

D.S. Senanayake College, Colombo, was awarded the Best Team Turn Out at the 13th International Competition for Science, Mathematics, Astronomy and Computer Science-QUANTA 2007 organised by the City Montessori School, Chowk branch, Lucknow, India recently fifteen International Teams with 35 Indian teams competed in this competition. Team leader Rizan Hameed along with the team receives the award from the Dr. T.V. Verhoeff of Technische Unviersity Eindhoven, Germany. Standing From Left - Pasidu Nipun Manawadu, D.C. Yapa, S.M. Wanniarachchi, M.F.M. Infas, Dr. T. Verhoeff, K.S.H.Perera, Rizan Hameed, A. Azeem Ameen, A. Nimantha, Nanayakkara, K.B. Muhandiramge and K.P.O.V. Kurukulasuriya

DS Senanayake College has brought into play its intrinsic proficiency and competence at the 13th international competition for Science, Mathematics, Astronomy and Computer Science QUANTA 2007 organised by the City Montessori schools Lucknow, India by surpassing more than 50 international teams.

The College brought honour to the country by securing the Best Team Turn Out award at the competition showcasing exceptional forte in debating, mathematics, science and astronomy.

The DS Senanayake College team comprising 10 students excelled in many national and inter-school quiz, debating competitions and the Lucknow competition was not a big challenge for them. They have had an opportunity to mingle with international students through this competition aimed at promoting the culture of global peace.

The international team could not believe their eyes when the Sri Lankan students blessed with the gift of the gab, performed at the debating contest in Lucknow.

This annual event organised by the City Montessori School is brainchild of Jeggadish Gandhi. D.S. Senanayake college has participated in more than six contests in Lucknow.

The Sri Lankan team received a warm welcome on arrival to Lucknow and Indian students easily mingled with Sri Lankans.

M.F.M. Infas said the educational psyche of Indian students is very different.

"I participated in the mathematics quiz. I had to answer a question paper within an hour".

He said he had contested in the Maths Olympiad and the paper he had to answer in Lucknow was easy.

A. Azeem Ameen said this was his debut performance at international level.

Rizan Hameed

M.F.M. Infas

A. Azeem Ameen

Pasidu Nipun

Senal M. Wanniarachchi

D. Chanaka Yapa

"I took part in many Islamic conferences and speech competition at national and inter school level but an international contest is a dream for me. It was undoubtedly a challenge," he said.

"I represented the model display category in the contest. I made a model of a hydraulic jack and a breaking system which received special attention and recognition from the panel of judges," he said.

Ameen said they secured the best team turn out award in the face of stiff competition by teams from Germany and Pakistan.

"Germany became the overall winner," he said. D. Chanaka Yapa said he took part in the collage contest. "It was an amazing experience working with students with whom we had little acquaintance," he said.

"I received a comprehensive training from my teachers. My teammates also received fair training. They were confident of achieving a place at this competition," he said.

Pasidu Nipun Manawadu who took part in the collage and mathematics contest said this was his first visit to India. "It is total a new experience we had an opportunity to interact with overseas students who have been born and bred in different cultures and societies", he said.

He said he has showcased outstanding performances in national contests and was confident of achieving success in this competition too.

Manawadu said he did not dedicate much time to training. "I managed my time. We had one hour after school training for this,"

For Senal M. Wanniarachchi this was not a novel experience. He has represented the college and the country in many debating competitions at international level.

"I have taken part in national and international competitions in Colombo, but no international contests outside the island", he said.

Wanniarchchi who received many laurels for his exceptional debating talent at local and international level, said, his team was equipped with training and talent to give a good fight at the contest.

"We were picked out by team leader Rizan Hameed following a thorough selection procedure which includes a test," he said.

"My colleagues also did their best at the competition. We practised at the college and by the time we left for India we were very confident".

Wanniarachchi said the international students particulary Indians prefer practical aspects to theoretical knowledge. "We noticed that they focused on the practical aspects of subjects such as science and mathematics", he says. "But our team had not paid much attention on the practical side".

Team leader Rizan Hameed instrumental in identifying their potential, said he is satisfied with their performances at the competition.

The City Montessori School in Lucknow is a network of schools which annually organises this type of contest to promote global peace and harmony.

"We have to improve the standards of our students through constant training and practices.

"This competition provided an exposure to Lankan students as they had to face teams from Germany, Pakistan, Nigeria, Nepal and Malaysia".

He said he only fine tuned the potential of the team by providing guidance and training.

The DS Senanayake college throughout its history has been committed to insist on global peace through religious amity and goodwill. All places of religious worship such as Budu Medura, Chapel, Mosque and Hindu Kovil are located in the school.

Pictures by Sumanachandra ARIYAWANSA

Proper guidance brought success, says best orator

Chaminda PERERA

The Ananda College Primary English Debating Society has shown exceptional talent and performance at every school competition. Their oratorical forte have given them unprecedented courage and stamina to face challenges in school and regional level.

Navindu receiving the Best Orator's award from Ananda College Principal D.A. Abeyratne.

Navindu Palliyaguruge who emerged the best orator at the college's inaugural debating competition says proper guidance and perseverance led him to success.

"I dedicated more time to training and gathering information through the Internet.

"We should be equipped with facts and information on which we are going to debate. Otherwise, we cannot counter the opinions forwarded by the opposition" he said.

"I have practices after school twice a week. My teachers, specially Dhammika Ovitigala and Udara Madihewa taught us how to gather information and counter others, " Navindu said.

Navindu says his grandfather's support helped him to achieve success in this field. "My parents were also constant sources of courage to me in my path to success".

"Our society aims to compete at inter school level and regional level and bring honour to my school, "he says.Navindu says his colleagues are equally good at debating though he was the best orator at the school's debating competition.

"I want to bring honour to my school which has created many intellectuals and professionals with exceptional oratorical feats, by performing well at each competition I participate, in" Navindu said.

Let yourself go

The other day my friend told me to let go.... he told me not to be so worried about what I'm doing, or what I look like, but to just let myself go once in awhile. This really got me thinking. Maybe I should let go. Maybe I should do something crazy, just so I can say I did. I've got many long years ahead of me, and plenty of time to live a fun and happy life.

Sometimes, an opportunity only knocks at the door once, and if you don't answer it at that particular moment, then you'll never get another chance. Life is tough, and most of the time we spend our days wondering why things go the way they do.

After thinking for awhile I'm finally realizing that maybe thinking about this so much, is wasting the time in which we could be going out and making the days go better. We're wasting the time we have here on Earth. By attempting to figure out why life goes the way it does, we lose time when we could be having fun, and living our lives to the fullest.

We are only here for a short amount of time. An average of 70-100 years seems long, but it goes faster then we realize. It's so incredibly important to live every day to it's fullest potential. When you're 87 years old and laying on your death bed, do you want to look back and think of things that you wished you had done?

I don't know about you but I want to look back and remember all the times when I let myself go, and had fun. I want to remember the times when I actually let myself be open to try new things, and open the door to wonderful opportunities.

Life is only wonderful if you leave yourself open to be part of it. Think about it.

Emily Myrick

I have a problem now

The questions never stop now,

Neither do the stares now,

My clothes are baggy now,

I'm in the crowd now,

My hands shake now,

My head spins now,

I can't think straight,

But I look great,

My friends say I look

pale, But I don't care,

I look in the mirror now,

I see a pretty, thin, girl now,

But I'm wasting away now,

I think I need help now,

Someone please save me now,

It's hard to breathe now,

My heart is pounding out

of control now, I'll think I'll go

to sleep now,

Goodbye forever now.

- Jaime E. SCHULTZ

Chess champs Sithmal Nonis won the Gold Medal under 10 boys from Maris Stella College, Negombo and his sister Rolinka Nonis won the Gold Medal under 8 girls from Ave Maria Convent, Negombo at a Chess Tournament organised by the Chess Association of Ave Maria Convent Negombo, held at the Ave Maria convent Negombo recently.





