Online edition of Daily News - Lakehouse NewspapersCeylon Tobacco Company, contributed Rs.50 Billion to the Government in 2008, up Rs. 9 Billion from 2007. Sales volumes however declined in 2008, impacted by higher excise-led price increases and diminishing consumer affordability. Rs. 50 Billion contribution to the Government consists of Excise Duties, VAT, Provincial Council Tax and Corporate Tax. Last year, despite economic challenges faced by many Corporate worldwide, CTC remained one of the largest contributors to Government Revenue. The Rs.50 Billion contributed in 2008(up from a Rs. 41 Billion Rupees contributed in 2007) is mainly attributed to the excise led price increases and declining volumes of illegal and counterfeit products in the market. In 2008 more than 740 raids were carried out by law enforcement officials, in a concerted effort to minimize the presence of illegal cigarettes. The confiscated illegal tobacco products amounted to the value of over Rs.335 Million. Bold and innovative initiatives in consolidating the distribution network, further localization of material inputs, and ongoing organizational restructuring has continued to deliver significant savings for the company. These savings contributed to the profit after tax increase of Rs.867M. CTC doubled its investments in its flagship community project; Sustainable Agricultural Development Programme (SADP), which is targeted at poverty alleviation and has over the last three years, touched lives of 3578 families in rural Sri Lanka unfolding a simple formula to achieve sustainable development through their own effort. During the year 2008, 205 families exited the programme achieving self-sufficiency and taking the project on to a different level. 

 Asst Sales Development Manager of Maruti Suzuki Wickum Pradeep presenting the brand new Maruti 800 Face Lift to North Star winner. As far as popularity went, the North Star Singing Competition was the firm favourite at the Future Vision of Jaffna, to showcase the development and rebuilding envisioned for Jaffna by the Sri Lankan State held on the historic grounds of Jaffna Central, one of the earliest schools established in the country. The North Star Singing Competition sponsored by AMW in support of the technical and educational exhibition, enjoyed by all, brought to light, hidden talents of the youth of Jaffna. Asst Sales Development Manager of AMW, Wickum Pradeep expected to develop sales of Suzuki Maruti in Jaffna. Suzuki Maruti has been the market leader in India and Sri Lanka for more than five years. The exhibition organized, directed and managed by the Secretariat for Coordinating the Peace Process with assistance from the Sri Lanka Army was held from December 27-29, with the view of uplifting and developing the lives of school children, young adults and villagers. The crowds welcomed the opportunity to enjoy and participate in live entertainment, while touring the exhibition. The three-day event attracted large crowds and Tharuni Ranjan, the North Star winner, won the first prize of a Suzuki Maruti M800 Ultimate.



