Online edition of Daily News - Lakehouse NewspapersThe Security Forces engaged in the final phase of the Vanni liberation operation continued its military thrust against the LTTE recovering large hauls of weapons as the 48 hour ultimatum given to the LTTE to allow civilians to reach safer areas ended on Saturday night with around 300 civilians arriving in Security Forces controlled areas, Military sources said yesterday. "Around 300 civilians arrived in the Government controlled areas in Visuamadu and Pulmudai and to Omanthai within the 48 hour period," Military Spokesman Brigadier Udaya Nanayakkara told the Daily News. He said the 48 hour ultimatum was given to the LTTE to allow the civilians to reach safer areas including the area declared by the Government. "We have no idea about the number of civilians arriving in safe zones during this period because we have no access to that area", he added. "The Security Forces still maintain the safer zones to assure the safety of civilians and continue our humanitarian operations to liberate these civilians", Brigadier Nanayakkara added. Meanwhile, troops advancing further into the remaining Tiger controlled areas in Mullaitivu made steady progress within the past two days with 59 Division under the command of Brigadier Nandana Udawatta and 55 Division under the command of Brigadier Prasanna Silva, destroying heavily fortified LTTE defence lines in Puthukuduiruppu south and Chundikulam south. The 59 Division troops operating West of Nanthi Kadal lagoon breached the LTTE's heavily fortified defence south of Puthukkudiyiruppu on Saturday whilst 55 division troops breaching LTTE heavily fortified defence line in Chundikulam on Sunday, Brigadier Nanayakkara added.. As troops continue its military thrust on the LTTE, the largest haul of weapons recovered by the Security Forces during the Vanni liberation operation was recovered by the 58 Division under the command of Brigadier Shavendra Silva on Saturday in Visuamadu area. The Tiger camp complex consists of training, administration and logistics compartments, was recovered by the 6 Gemunu Watch under the command of Lt. Colonel Kamal Pinnawala and 11 Sri Lanka Light Infantry battalion under the command of Lt. Colonel Kithsiri Ekanayake. The 6 Gamunu Watch battalion maneuvering towards Challai lagoon captured this highly fortified LTTE camp located in the jungle, East of Puliyampokkanal in the eastern bank of the Piramanthal Aru, about 7 km north of the A-35 road around 11.30 a.m on Saturday. after a heavy confrontation. The stock of weapons included nine mortar launchers of five different caliber of 120 mm, 81 mm, 82 mm, 80 mm and 60 mm, six Multi Purpose Machine Guns (MPMG ), two thermobaric launchers, twenty pistols, three Rocket Propeller Guns (RPG), seven claymore mines, one improvised claymore mine, eighteen T-56 weapons, one sniper gun, eight Rocket Propeller Gun (RPG) rounds, fifty-nine hand grenades, one tripod, thirty-five Arul-type bombs, one hundred detonators, one radio set, thirty five gas masks, forty eight helmets, thirty-five pouches, a large stock of new LTTE uniforms and twelve LTTE dead bodies were found from inside of the camp complex. "The stock of weapons included illegal weapons such as thermo-baric weapons which have been banned internationally", Brigadier Nanayakkara added. Meanwhile, one more underground bunker turned two-storied house with luxurious facilities was also found by the 582 Brigade troops form Visuamadu area on the same day. "The two storied house fitted with comfortable rooms, attached toilets three soundproof power generators, macadam access paths and two safes were found inside the underground building. Infantrymen of 11 Sri Lanka Light Infantry (11 SLLI) operating under 582 Brigade captured a well fortified LTTE camp located south of Piramanthalkulam on Saturday morning. Troops sweeping the A-35 road (Paranthan - Mullaittivu) on west-east axis came across the LTTE camp located north of the 12th milepost around 11.20 a.m. Saturday. Troops captured the camp after beating off the terrorists in a pitched battle and found 9 bodies of LTTE cadres with an assortment of weapons. Two T-56 riffles, one M-16 Light Machine Gun (LMG) built in the USA, and nine USA made TIPPMAN A-5 air riffles were among the weapons found. Also, troops found a fully air-conditioned bunker built underground in the camp premises. Meanwhile, 57 Division operating in Visuamadu South also recovered Tiger camps with luxury facilities on Saturday.



