New Year lift for people

The new year begins today on a propitious note to most Sri Lankans who have had to endure many hardships on the cost of living front brought about by the vicissitudes of world trends during the last year.

It comes in the form of a multiplicity of reliefs directly benefitting the consumer as well as key sectors in the economy that are in the mire, to stimulate a revival.

The slashing of prices of diesel, petrol and kerosine, the substantial reduction in the price of a cylinder of Gas no doubt is going to be felt in a tangible form by the consumer.

It goes without saying that today even the price of a humble roti or a bundle of gotukola is conditioned by cost of fuel and gas. Now with the sizable reduction especially in the price of gas and the corresponding decrease of this component added to the cost of commodities and services there should be a reduction in the price of many items.

The Government therefore should ensure that this benefit is passed on to the consumer. Because the practice has been to increase prices whenever additional levies are imposed by the Government but not reduce them when the opposite happens.The huge concessions granted to three wheeler operators in the fuel price reduction is commendable but it must be ensured that the public are benefitted.

The Government's move should be seen in the light of the current global recession that has brought powerful economies to their knees. Especially the massive relief package granted to the tea and rubber industries which have been badly hit by the global economic melt down is commendable. The relief granted to the agriculture sector over and above the budgetary allocations is also an indication of the seriousness of the Government's resolve to pursue in earnest its food drive in the wake of the world food crisis last year.

That it has to forego a massive Rs. 50 billion to meet these relief measures demonstrates the sensitivity of the Government to the woes of the public and key sectors of the economy in the face of a global economic crisis.

What is even commendable is its move to cut down on Government expenditure and allocations of the President, Prime Minister and Government Ministers in deference to public feeling. This is in contrast to previous regimes whose arrogance of power blinded them to public travails.

This is perhaps the biggest across the board relief package granted by a Government notwithstanding the many economic constraints, chief of which is the ongoing war to defeat terrorism.

All signs point to 2009 being the 'Year of Triumph over Terrorism' in keeping with the Government's slogan for the new year. There is also much optimism that a political package too would see the light of day during the new year, offering a permanent solution to the long drawn out national question. It is the hope and aspiration of all communities that this would pave the way for a lasting peace allowing all people to live in amity, concord and brotherhood as witnessed in the past, devoid of racial divisions and hatred.

Already we see more and more people in the North agitating for an end to terrorism and a desire for integrating with the national polity. The recent anti-LTTE demonstrations in the North show how the people there yearn for peace. The ongoing mega development projects in the East have opened the eyes of these people to a life that they were shut off from all these years. Hopefully the new year would see the replicating of the Eastern scenario in the North with the complete eradication of terrorism, allowing the Tamil community to savour the fruits of development.

It is the duty of all sections therefore to help achieve this objective putting aside all divisions and parochial considerations. It is only through the ending of the conflict that the country will be able to move forward economically and achieve progress.

The new year should also make every single individual resolve to contribute their utmost towards nation building and national development. We say this because today there is an absence of a work ethic among most employees particularly in the public sector who prefer to do the least at their workplaces and not give their full commitment to their tasks.

There is a need for a collective responsibility by all concerned to serve the nation at this most crucial hour.

We wish you a happy new year.

Cuba reaffirms its stand on terrorism:

Message from the Cuban Ambassador

On the occasion of the National Day of the Republic of Cuba, January 1, when we celebrate with joy and rejoicing the 50th anniversary of the Cuban Revolution,

Achievement 2008, Challenge 2009

Sri Lanka closes out its 60th year of Independence, though in the strictest sense it lasts till the beginning of next February when we celebrate our 61st Independence Day. It is a moment to take stock.





