Muralitharan would keep records in business world as well - Industrial Development Minister

Industrial Development and Ranaviru Welfare Minister Kumara Welgama said that there is no doubt that Muttiah Muralitharan who keeps records in cricket would do so in the business world as well.

He was addressing a public rally after the opening of a factory built in Ambakote in the Kundasale electorate by Muttiah Muralitharan and his brother Muttiah Prabhaharan.

'I am very happy that I got the chance to attend this ceremony. Muttiah told me that he started the business in 1967 and today only a few of those factories remain. One is the Lucky Land Biscuit Company. As we did not look properly at local industries and opened doors to foreign investors these factories were forced to close down one by one.

President Mahinda Rajapaksa has started Gamata Karmantha 300 project to uplift the local industry. According to the President's instruction all benefits and concessions given to the foreign industrialists are today given to local industrialists as well, the Minister said.

As Muttiah Prabhaharan said this is the first time in Sri Lanka that pre-form for bottles are built in a factory.

This factory provides 60 per cent of the Sri Lankan market. Our shoe industry is a good example. The President imposed Rs. 300 cess on Chinese shoes and provided tax concessions and the facility to import duty free machines for our industries.

Today, the shoe industry is slowly reviving but there are no good designs. So the Ministry contributed 50 per cent and industrialists 50 per cent and sent our fashion designers to India for one and half years. Recently another 20 were sent for training, he said.

If we import this bottle mould it would be at a high cost. So we decided to send our people to India to study the industry. Today, the world's number one world bowler Muttiah Muralitharan is in the director board of this factory. I hope to promote this product worldwide with him.

This would be a boon to get down foreign investors. Local industries should use new technology and new designs to go forward and to win the international market.

Central Province Chief Minister Sarath Ekanayake said Muralitharan who won the cricket world resembles our national unity. The present Minister makes a great sacrifice for industrial development. It is to strengthen the country's economy. This is the first factory built in the Kandy district. This provided a lot of jobs.

Central Province Governor Tikiri Kobbekaduwa said it's a good opportunity for the upcountry that the Muttiah family is a giant in the business world today. This factory has provided 50 jobs and has planned to export products to Nepal and Maldives according to company director Muttiah Prabhaharan.





