Nirmani and Gayan table tennis champions

by S. M. Jiffrey Abdeen, Kandy Sports Correspondent

Nirmani Silva (Girls High School) and Gayan Liyanage (Dharmaraja College) emerged women's and men's Singles champions at the annual Central Province Table Tennis Championship organised by the Central Province Table Tennis Association and worked off at the Gymnasium of the University of Peradeniya for three days at Peradeniya.

Highly ranked Gayan Liyanage had no difficulty in defeating Milinda Walisundera of Kingswood College, Kandy in three straight sets.

Nirmani Silva of Girls High School displaying excellent skills won a double when she clinched under 21 title by defeating her more experienced elder sister Shanika Silva 3-0. But Shanika Silva did not go home without a title when she won the girls under 18 title by defeating Nirmani Silva 3-1.

This set the stage for an exciting Women's Singles championship and it was once again that little girl Nirmani Silva got the better of her elder sister Shanika Silva 3-2 after a gruelling contest. Both sisters are from Girls High School and they could be a big threat to other paddlers from the schools circuit.

The women's doubles event turned up to be a one sided affair with the top ranked Upekha Kotinkaduwa and Sachi Tennakoon getting the better of Mahamayans Nadini Samaraweera and Heshani Wickremasinghe 3-0.

Eleven year old Prabodha Rodrigo from St. Anthony's College, Kandy, kept up to his early promise when he won a double. First he clinched the boys under 12 title defeating Udaya Ranasinghe of Vidyartha 3-0 but had to undergo some anxious moments to beat edging out K. Hewage of Kingswood College 3-2.

It was the early strong play of the loser which rattled young Prabodha Rodrigo but he picked himself up to clinch the title. Prabodha Rodrigo made a daring effort in the boys under 18 competition by giving the more experienced Rajitha Samaraweera a torrid time before going down 2-3.

This event rose to high standards like the mythical fight between 'David and Goliath' and in the end the ultimate winner Rajitha Samaraweera of Dharmaraja College was to push through to romp home winner.

A point of interest was that though there was no team championship but boys from Vidyartha College put up a gallant performance to carry away many titles mostly in the junior section which augurs well for the future of the school which was at one time in the forefront in table tennis in the island producing players of the calibre of Tilina Piyadasa.

Minister of Sports of the Uva Provincial Council Dayaratne Bandara and the Vice President of the Asian Table Tennis Union SSP Daya Samaraweera were the Chief Guests and distributed the trophies along with Bharatha Dodankotuwa of the University of Peradeniya.





