How the battle progressed

The LTTE had its domination mainly in the Kilinochchi, and Mullaittivu and some parts of the Mannar, and Vavuniya districts in the Northern Province before the present operations began.

Troops on completion of the operation in the Silavatura and Mannar front totally liberated the Mannar district. At present, LTTE has the domination in some parts of Mullaittivu. The area belonging to Kilinochchi and Mullaittivu districts are commonly called the Vanni region.

Heroic Security Forces after the Killinochchi liberation

It should be noted that the term "area domination" refers only to military domination as the government is maintaining all the public services in the Vanni. It is only the civilians living in those areas have to obey the terror leadership while the government runs all the administrative and welfare activities.

Free health service, free education system, public transport, state banks have been maintained by the government without any interruption on the part of the government, during last 3 decades of war on terror. Even LTTE cadres live on the food, medicine and other essential supplies provided by the government for the civilians in Vanni.

Sri Lanka Army plays the key role in liberation operation by conducting offensive and defensive land operations against the terrorists. At present, troops are engaging the terrorists on several warfronts while maintaining the defences in newly liberated areas and other defensive fronts.

Sri Lanka Navy plays a vital role in denying the terrorist use of sea lines of communications through offensive blockades, marine surveillance, and maintaining defences in several strategic locations along the coast including all harbours. Also, Navy maintains the main supply route between Jaffna Peninsula and South as no road access possible across Vanni.

The Navy via sea route is handling a large portion of troops transfer, and cargo transportation between Jaffna and South.

Sri Lanka Air Force makes an invaluable contribution to the success of the battle by carrying out of air raids at terror targets located deep behind enemy lines and close air support missions in support of forward deployed troops.

In addition, Air Force assists Special Forces operating behind enemy lines by way of airmobile/ air assault missions. Other than the offensive role, Air Force provides vital assistance to the forward deployed forces through casualty evacuation, air surveillance/reconnaissance, and troops transfer and logistic support.

paramilitary force

More entering Troops in Killinochchi

Police Special Task Force (STF) is the only paramilitary force in Sri Lanka specially trained in counter insurgency warfare. At present, STF personnel are deployed in the defensive fronts in the Vavuniya districts to maintain the active defence. Police and Civil Defence Force personnel also, deployed on the forward defences where no offensives are being carried out at present.

There are two theatres of operations identified as Jaffna and Vanni, at present. Security forces' Forward Defence Line (FDL) in the Jaffna theatre stretches for about 12 km on the neck of the Jaffna peninsula.

The Vanni theatre initially had a winding FDL stretches for about 115 km, on the mainland between the Mannar coast on the northwestern shores of the Island and the Kokkuttoduvai coast on the northeastern shores. However, the FDL often was altered in its shape and distance with the progress of the operations in dynamic Vanni theatre.

In the Jaffna theatre, troops maintain active defence at 3 main frontiers namely, Muhamalai, Kilaly and Nagarkovil. The forward deployed forces in this theatre acted as the main defensive barricade against any terrorist attack coming from Vanni until recently, as the Jaffna Peninsula was cut off from the mainland due to LTTE's domination in the Vanni.

However, the Jaffna Peninsula is no longer isolated from the mainland as troops opened a land route to Jaffna with the liberation of Pooneryn and Sangupiddi causeway. The 3 divisions manning the Kilaly, Muhamalai and Nagarkovil forward boundaries are now shifting their mode of operations from active defence to all-out offence.

At present, the main counter terror offensive is being carried out in the Vanni theatre. The Army initially deployed 2 divisions and a Task Force to lead the offensives along the Vanni Defence on 3 battlefronts namely; Mannar, Vavuniya and Welioya.

Later, the Mannar and Vavuniya battlefronts combined with each other making the largest ever battlefront fought against the LTTE. This battlefront jointly entered into the Kilinochchi district and proceeded up to Pooneryn liberating the complete stretch of Northwestern coast of the Island.

Kilinochchi West

With the progress of the battle, the Army has increased its strength up to 4 divisions and 3 task forces while the battlefronts too have changed as follows:

This was the warfront opened by Army Task Force 1 after fully liberating the Mannar district. The front became active with troops entering the Kilinochchi district from the southwestern district boarders following the liberation of Vellankulama.

Troops recently completed their northwards march along the Northwestern coastal belt of the island and opened up the Mannar- Pooneryn road (A-32) running along coastal belt. The battlefront was considered to be of the highest strategic importance as the LTTE's main sea supply route lies across the Palk Strait.

At present, troops have turned their axis from South to North to West to East lining up themselves in the Western borders of the Kilinochchi outskirts.

Kilinochchi South

Troops of 57 division having liberated the Western region of the Vavuniya district and the Madhu area in the Mannar district, are now at the door step of the terrorist's administrative capital Kilinochchi. The battle frontage has been extremely active since its opening as the thrust has been directly at the Vanni heartland.

At present, troops have reached the outskirts of Kilinochchi built up from the South and West and continue to push their forward boundaries to the Kilinochchi and Poonaryn-Paranthan road.

57 division troops commenced their operation opening up the Vavuniya front from Madhu road, Giant Tank East, Pandisurichchan and Thampanai areas and achieved the largest area domination by liberating Madhu, Palampiddi, Mundumurippu and Periyamadhu areas.

Later, they combined with the Task Force 1 that was marching ahead on the Mannar front making the Mannar-Vavuniya front- the largest battlefront ever maintained against terrorists.

Then, they entered into the Mullaittivu district crossing the southwestern district boarder and so far liberated the Naddankandal, Chiraddikulam Kalvilan, Tunukkai, Mallavi, Vannivilankulam, Murukkandi, and Akkarayankulam areas.

Mullaittivu

The latest induction to the front is Task Force 3, which is directing its thrust towards the East of the Jaffna-Kandy (A-9) road. With in days after its induction, TF 3 troops cut off the A-9 road at Pannikkankulam denying the terrorist use of the road from Omananthai to Kilinochchi. The latest achievement of the Task Force 3 is the liberation of the Mankulam.

Troops of 59 division is the first ever Army battle formation to venture in to the Mullaittivu jungles forming a battlefront north of Welioya. Initially, troops started to move into the Mullaittivu forest from the north of Janakapura, Kiriibbanwewa and Kokkutoduvai areas and so far pushed their forward defence line for about 10 km north from the initial position.

At present, troops are maneuvering along the west of the Nayaru lagoon heading towards the Mullaittivu town situated on the Eastern border of the district. The present defence lies 15 km south of the Mullaittivu main terror bastion. During their march, troops have dislodged hundreds of enemy bunkers and captured prominent terror camps such as Munagasm Base, Michael Base, Sugandan Base and most recently Jeevan Base.

Vavuniya Front

Vavuniya front represent northern section of the Vavuniya district that lies between Omanthai and Mankaulam, and also on the either side of the A-9 road. Troops of Task Force 2, 56 division and 61 division are operating on the Vavuniya front at present.

61 division troops are mainly engaged in clearing operations in the recently liberated areas of both Mannar and Vavuniya districts. 56 division troops maintain the active defence on defence line that stretches from east to west across A-9 road at Omanthai.

Troops of Task Force 2 carry out the counter terror offensives along the northwestern border of the Vavuniya district on the west of the A-9 road. They have so far liberated the Navvi village and are now in the process of liberating the Palamoddai area.





