Hill country mourns Chandrasekaran's demise

P. Rajaratnam in Nuwara Eliya

The hill country mourned the death of Minister Periyasamy Chandrasekaran. His remains are lying at his residence in Talawakelle. Thousands of plantation workers were seen in tears and 'Poojas' are being conducted around the plantations today. The funeral will take place at 2 p.m. at Talawakelle. White flags are displayed in every shop and household in the plantations. Among the mourners were hundreds of politicians paying their last respects.

This is the biggest attended funeral in the hill country, after the late leader Saumiyamoorthy Thondaman some years ago.

Funeral today with State honours

The funeral of Community Development and Social Inequity Eradication Minister P. Chandrasekaram will be held today at 1 p.m. with full State honours on the instructions of President Mahinda Rajapaksa. The late Minister's remains were lying at his Talawakelle residence from 6 p.m. on Saturday for the public to pay their respects.

Late Minister and leader of the Upcountry People's Front (UPF) was the accredited leader among the plantation lot irrespective of different Trade Union affiliations.

He was a person respected by everyone for his unblemished character and a leader with high morality - when he was a youth in 1977, he was a tower of strength to late CWC leader Saumiyamoorthy Thondaman who played a dominant role in rallying the plantation sector youth and was imprisoned for a long period.

Since then he went up in the ladder of politics and trade union activities and formed a separate Union the UPF and the organization was one of the formidable unions in the plantations.

He was a leader who tirelessly worked towards the alleviation and promotion of social and economical uplift of the estate workers with special emphasis on the education of the estate children.

He served as a Deputy Minister and Cabinet Minister under successive Governments. He firmly believed that only by joining the government in power, they could meet the aspirations and the desired goals of the plantation lot and the people of Indian origin.

The UPF has announced at a recent meeting held by its high command in Hatton that the Union and its membership will support President Mahinda Rajapaksa and his government in the forthcoming Presidential Election and he vigorously campaigned for President re-election recent weeks.

His untimely loss is a tragedy for the country and the estate workers.

The CWC and other plantation trade unions have requested their workforce to attend his funeral and pay their last respects.





