Online edition of Daily News - Lakehouse NewspapersNow that the war is gradually reaching an end the Government will no doubt have a Herculean task to transform a highly traumatised civilian population of the North to integrate into normal society. It is not only the mental healing they would have to be provided with the necessary wherewithal to start life anew. These are a people who had not enjoyed the things their brethren of the South had taken for granted for over three decades. They had not been allowed the opportunities to blossom out into their true potential. Their talents were wasted in a black hole of blood and carnage. This also applies to the LTTE cadres who had been surrendering in large numbers to the security forces. Hence the move to provide overseas jobs to LTTE surrendees after undergoing rehabilitation and vocational training is a move in the right direction. This, while freeing them from a sense of ostracisation would also give them a sense of belonging. It will be an acknowledgement that they too should be provided with the scope and opportunities the rest of their countrymen enjoyed. They were brainwashed and misguided and turned into killing machines to satisfy the blood lust of a ruthless despot. Therefore we should all extend our bountiful munificence so that they could pick up the pieces of life putting back the harrowing ordeal behind them. Under a special program devised by Foreign employment Minister Keheliya Rambukwella these youth will now be trained and equipped so that they could take up overseas jobs.15 such surrendees are to embark on overseas jobs shortly. The program is to be expanded to allow for more such opportunities to LTTE cadres who surrender. This is indeed a most welcome development and the Government should be commended for initiating such an enterprise. As we have been saying in these columns there is no knowing the loss to the country which had been the denied this vast pool of talent all these years. It is often recalled with nostalgia the contribution made to the various spheres of national life by the brethren of the North who were known for their drive and enterprise. Some of the best doctors, engineers lawyers and teachers came from this stable and the country was enriched by their vast knowledge and inputs. Sadly they were lost to the country due to the conflict. Most of them fled overseas while others went into oblivion. The President's national reconciliation programme would no doubt factor in this aspect of the value and importance of the Northern citizen. He has already invited our expatriate Lankans to participate in the post war development of the country. The invitation certainly has to include all those sons and daughters of the North who had left our shores broken and disgruntled. This, while availing of their talents and skills to rebuild the country would also pave the way for national unity and reconciliation when all communities irrespective of race religious or ethnicity contribute their mite towards a single goal. The gallant deed of nine year old Dinesh Sandakelum from Mahiyangana who rescued four persons, three of them adults, who were drowning in a canal hopefully would instil in our younger generation the quality of selfless sacrifice at a time when most of us think only of ourselves and shy away from risk and danger. A tractor with five occupants were proceeding along the bank of the Gemunupura South Bank canal when it toppled over. All but the 70 year driver were rescued by our little hero who according his mother was an ardent swimmer. He was specially honoured by the Principal of his school, Gemunupura Maha Vidyalaya and held up as shining example of selfless sacrifice. We feel this deed by little Sandakelum should draw the attention of even a higher authority and our little hero fittingly rewarded so as to inspire others of his age to emulate such qualities. Most would have taken the easy way out giving in to the instinct of self preservation but Sandakelum was obviously made of sterner stuff. This proves that we have in our midst people who are willing to even lay down their lives for their fellow beings. That this heroic act was performed by a 9 year lad from the rural outback also speaks volumes for ingrained values of villagers of helping out others in distress. He may have been only a nine year old but obviously was well grounded in the unspoilt village ethos. It is hoped that this example seeps into the psyche of all our youth and instil in them the qualities of selflessness and sacrifice.



