Suez Canal confirms transit tolls

Steady for 2010:

The Suez Canal Authority confirmed on Tuesday transit tolls would remain steady in 2010, the second straight year fees were not changed for the strategic waterway that is a barometer for international trade.

The Suez Canal

* Canal Authority confirms fees unchanged for 2nd year

* Canal revenues, vessels fell about 20 percent in 2009

Suez Canal

Canal sources had said in December that the tolls for the canal, one of Egypt's main foreign currency earners, would stay on hold due to the fallout from the global financial crisis.

The global shipping industry, also hit by tight financing, is gearing up for a second straight year of turmoil in 2010.

"To support global trade movement and (help) shipping companies overcome this (financial crisis), we have decided to keep the tolls steady," Chairman Ahmed Fadel told a news conference in Ismailia, on the banks of the canal.

He said canal revenues in 2009 were $4.291 billion, some 20 percent lower than $5.381 billion in 2008. The number of vessels passing through the canal in 2009 was 17,228, also about 20 percent down on the 2008 figure of 21,415.

"The effects of the global financial crisis are still facing the world and imposing difficult challenges. It is slowing recovery as growth in trade... has not reached the level indicating a true revival for the global economy," he said.

Revenue from the canal fell 0.5 percent to $390 million in December, the smallest year-on-year fall since November 2008, when faltering global trade began to hit shipping traffic. Hundreds of empty container ships, bulk carrier and others - so-called "ghost ships" - were idled in deep sea ports in Asia and Europe during 2009 following the slump in freight as the global crisis caused world trade to plunge.

Industry watchers estimated in November as much as 15 percent of the world's shipping fleet could end up out of commission in 2010. Doubts remain about whether the economic revival is sustainable once governments and central banks curb the flow of easy money they have been pumping in to stimulate economies, but some believe trade will hold up thanks to strength in emerging markets.

Reuters

Global pirate attacks at six-year high

Piracy on the high seas rose to its highest level in six years in 2009, with attacks becoming more frequent and more violent across the globe, a maritime watchdog said.

There were 406 reported incidents of piracy and high-seas armed robbery in 2009, up from 293 the previous year, but below the figure of 445 in 2003, the International Maritime Bureau (IMB) said in a report.

"Our hope is that this escalating volume of piracy is met with a heightened response from the governments and their agencies best able to reduce and contain these risks to human life and property," IMB director Pottengal Mukundan said.

The IMB said its piracy reporting centre in Kuala Lumpur received reports of 49 vessels being hijacked last year, 84 attempted attacks and 120 vessels that were fired upon. A total of 1,052 crew members were taken hostage, 68 injured and eight killed in 2009, it said.

"Increases in the frequency and level of violence perpetrated against ships at sea and the people who work them is a serious concern," Mukundan said. The watchdog said pirate attacks rose in almost all regions.

Off the coast of lawless Somalia the number of cases nearly doubled last year at 217 incidents, with 47 vessels hijacked and 867 crew members taken hostage.

However, the IMB said the number of successful hijackings off Somalia was proportionately lower, attributing the decline to the increased presence and coordination of international navies.

It warned that pirates have shifted their focus from the Gulf of Aden, one of the world's busiest maritime trade routes and the main target of attacks in 2008, to the East Coast of Somalia.

The watchdog said other African waters also remain 'very dangerous' with 28 incidents reported in Nigerian waters which "are frequently much more violent in nature than those in Somalia".

The South China Seas have also seen a rise in attacks, with 13 cases last year, the highest in five years.

Piracy is also on the rise in South America with 37 incidents reported, up from 14 in 2008.

Attacks in the Malacca Strait, which just a few years ago was a world piracy hotspot, remained at just two in 2009, the same as the previous year, the IMB said.

Ripples of recession reach Port of Green Bay

The Port of Green Bay saw an 18 percent decrease in cargo last year, while the Great Lakes shipping industry as a whole saw tonnages fall off about 34 percent from 2008.

Both the port and Lake Carriers Association released year-end figures last week showing declines. Tonnages were depressed most of the shipping season - which generally runs from March to late December - thanks to a recession that slowed the overall economy.

While tonnage numbers dipped dramatically early in the year, the Port of Green Bay made up ground most of the season, before a slow December cemented the season's tonnage decline from 2008 at 18

percent.

Port manager Dean Haen said Green Bay's decline wasn't as steep as that of other ports.

"Our stable economy is reflected by our tonnage not being down as much as others," he said. "This year is going to be better than, I'm sure, last year.

"This is the first time we've been under 2 million tons in five or six years." While most of the major commodities for the port were down, salt was up 22 percent at 297,025 tons, thanks to the severity of recent winters.

Port of Green Bay

Kuehne urges TUI to sell all of Hapag-Lloyd

German entrepreneur Klaus-Michael Kuehne called on TUI to sell its Hapag-Lloyd stake to make room for a new owner and a more stable shareholder set-up at the container shipping line.

"There are surely investors that buy stakes in companies that are still healthy," Kuehne said at the Hamburg club of business journalists on Wednesday, adding he could imagine that Hapag-Lloyd could attract private equity investors.

Hanover-based TUI, which owns Europe's largest tour operator TUI Travel, sold the majority of Hapag-Lloyd early last year but was forced to keep more shares than it had originally planned to avert a collapse of the deal. TUI still controls 43 percent of Hapag-Lloyd with the remainder held by the Albert Ballin consortium of investors, which includes Kuehne.

Last September the shipping group requested $1.75 billion in state loan guarantees to help see it through the worst of the financial downturn.





