Sri Lanka ruggerites to be felicitated

Ranjeeva SENEVIRATNE

The Sri Lanka rugby team which came up with a superb performance to emerge runners up in the Singer Rugby Asiad held in Colombo from November 3 to 10, 2007 will be felicitated at a ceremony which will be held at Beyleaf Restaurant, Gregory's Road, Colombo 7 today.

"The Sri Lanka rugby team brought honour and fame to our motherland by emerging runners up at the Singer Rugby Asiad and the council of the Sri Lanka Rugby Football Union has decided to reward them for their valiant effort and each player will receive a cash award of Rs. 50,000" said the President of the Sri Lanka Rugby Football Union DIG Nimal Lewke.

The Sri Lanka rugby team under the leadership of prop forward Jeewa Galgamuwa came up with a stupendous performance in the Singer Rugby Asiad with two smashing wins over China (26-10) and Malaysia (77-3) in the Group 'B' matches and went down fighting to mighty Kazakhstan, the fourth ranked team in Asia by 17 points to 24 in the final to emerge runners up - only the second time the Lankans had done so in the history of the Rugby Asiad.

The Lankan forwards gave a terrific display to match up to their bigger made counterparts in the loose, especially skipper Galgamuwa, Shamil Mohamed, Senaka Bandara, Ashan Karthelis, Dushanth Lewke and Imran Bisthamin who came up with a sterling performance.

The three quarters too gave a dazzling display. Full back Radhika Hettiarachchi was a tower of strength with his safe collections and booming kicks to touch and often joined the line to form the overlap piercing the opponents defence.

The halves combination of Amjad Buksh and Fazil Marija hit off smoothly. Centre Lasintha de Costa and wingers Lakala Perera and Sanjeeva Jayasinghe sliced through the opponents defence time and again with their side stepping and speed. Lakala Perera scored two splendid tries against China while Jayasinghe scored one. Saliya Kumara who came in as the replacement fly half against Kazakhstan in the final had the honour of scoring Sri Lanka's solitary try in the final.





