Online edition of Daily News - Lakehouse NewspapersVihara Maha Devi Balika Vidyalaya, Kiribathgoda celebrated her 32nd Anniversary yesterday. Founded under the patronage of Ven. Weerangule Sri Saranatissa of Sri Sudharshanaramaya, Kiribathgoda at the time of President J.R. Jayawardene, Vihara Maha Devi has come a long way to flourish as one of the most sought after girls' school in the Gampaha District. The 32nd Anniversary will be celebrated as usual with a blood donation campaign, as to support the heroes of the country, who fight for the freedom of North, and an alms giving to 33 Bhikkus. Mrs. Amara Wickremasinghe who was appointed as the first principal, accepted the challenge with only 7 teachers and 23 students. Amidst all the difficulties she could start Year 1 and the Year 6 in the same year showing the sacrifice and the commitment of her teachers as well as her integrity. With the retirement of Mrs. Wickremasinghe, the school was handed over to Mrs. Kumari Weerasooriya, who in her office of a short period, led Vihara Maha Devi towards the expected goals. Mrs. Sumana Premadasa took over the offices as the next new principal of the schools when Mrs. Weerasooriya was promoted as the Director of Education at Badulla. In her long period of 15 years at office, Mrs. Premadasa, made every Vehera Devian realise the best in each of them. She wanted her students to be the 'best out of the best' and it was a dream come true when Miss Anushka Madurasinghe was placed 1st in the G.C.E. A/L Commerce in the year 2004. Today, Vehera Devi is under the guidance of Principal Mrs. Anoma Shyamalee Abeyratne, who with her patient as well as the caring way, sees to the betterment of the school. The Karate Championship in 1999, 2000, winners of swimming competitions, all speak about the sportswomen of modern era. Vihara Maha Devi boasts about the courage, commitment and the virtue of Princess Vihara Maha Devi, who is a role model for the girls of Sri Lanka. Ven. Yakupitiye Somarama Thera, Viharadhipati, Sri Bauddharamaya, Wembiyagoda, Koswatta in the Kalawana Divisional Secretariat division marked 50 years of Bhikkhu life yesterday. Born on September 26, 1945 as the youngest son of a family of seven of Charles Edirisinghe and G.D Janenona of Yakupitiya Bellana, Agalawatta and was named Edirisinghe Arachchige Sirisoma. He was educated at the Sri Nivasee University Pirivena, Walagedara and was ordained on February 1, 1959 under the tutelage of Ven. Kuruwita Sri Saddhananda Deputy Chief Sanghanayake thera of Bellana Walallavita Korale. The Sri Sugathananda Daham Pasala which caters to a student population of 600 is a monument to his indefatigable services towards imparting the Dhamma and creating a disciplined society. May the blessings of the Noble Triple Gem be with him for good health and long life to enable him to continue his sasana service for many more years. 

 The new fully equipped science laboratory coming up soon at Zahira College, Colombo. The Board of Governors and the Old Boys Association of Zahira College, Colombo is nearing the completion of a fully equipped science laboratory. The cost of the project is Rs. 30 million. Of this amount Rs. 20 million has been expended and there is a need of another Rs. 10 million. The building once completed will have four floors which will consist of Physics, Botany, Chemistry Laboratories, a fully equipped IT unit, classrooms of the science stream and an auditorium. The Board of Governors of Zahira College request all old boys, parents and well wishers to extend their generous support for this venture. E.P. Kavindiya Nissanka is 14 years old having a profound hearing loss in both ears. She will benefit from Cochlear Implant surgery, which is to be done as soon as possible. The surgery is to be performed at the Golden Key Hospital and the estimated cost is approximately Rs. 2.85 million. The cost is likely to vary depending upon the fluctuations in foreign currency. The patient also needs to attend the rehabilitation program for a few years. The tentative date of surgery will be 25th April 2009. The parents of Kavindiya are soliciting financial assistance from any well-wishers and this certification is being issued to them on their request.



