



No escape for LTTE as Security Forces' Wanni thrust continues

Terrorists trying to create mayhem in South following Charles' killing:

Police 'Security Eye' operations in progress

Killing of Minister D.M. Dassanayake

Bomb attack on Army bus at Slave Island

The pattern of LTTE terrorism is quite evident in their actions. Once they are strong they are peace lovers and ready for negotiations. Once they are weak they are quite rampant in their terror acts. That is not for any reason but to convince the world about their existence.

It was quite apparent that the LTTE entered peace negotiations once they felt their military strength is capable to enough to have the upper hand in peace negotiations and get any Sri Lankan Government to bow for their demands.

What they really wanted is to proceed at least one inch forward to achieve their task of separating the country and establishing their illusionary Tamil Eelam in the guise of peace negotiations.

That was why they continued peace negotiations during the UNF regime and started negotiations soon after President Rajapaksa came to power in 2005.

Their intention was to testify whether they can go along the same path as they did during the peace negotiations during the UNF regime, but what they could not hide was their duplicitous position during these peace negotiations and their real face of terrorism was exposed to the international community due to the level of patience by the President.

But the scenario has been completely changed due to the decision taken by the Government to withdraw from the Ceasefire agreement. The incidents unfolding in Colombo gives the impression to the public that Colombo is no longer secure after the abrogation of the Ceasefire Agreement.

Creating Fear Psychosis

Through the assassination of UNP Colombo district MP T. Maheshwaran on January 1, the claymore attack at Slave Island on January 2 and the killing of Nation Building Minister D.M. Dassanayake in a claymore attack at Rukmani Devi junction Ja-ela, the LTTE made desperate attempts to create a fear psychosis among general public.

What they really intend to convince the public in the South and the international community is that the South is insecure after the Government's decision to withdraw from the Ceasefire Agreement and the LTTE is quite capable of creating mayhem in the South. But the actual situation is quite contrary to the situation that the LTTE wants to portray.

In reality the LTTE has been forced to understand the ground realities that they are not quite capable of accomplishing their tasks in the South in the same manner they are facing defeats at the hands of the Security things are happening in the Wanni.

In other words they have resorted to novel tactics of assassinating VIPs and targeting civilians which are quite contrary to the tactics they resorted to on earlier occasions. It is quite clear that they have resorted to the last lap in their endeavour of stopping the military thrust in the Wanni by resorting to desperate attacks in the South.

Restrictions on Security Checks

The entire world is aware that the LTTE mastered their capabilities to create new scenarios to achieve their goals. Therefore, the Security Forces and the Police had to sail through stormy waters to tighten Colombo's security at a time LTTE was quite capable of creating mayhem in the South amidst their false propaganda campaign.

As the LTTE was first convinced that their military capabilities are not on par with those of the Security Forces and their intelligence networks and safe houses are insecure in Colombo, they made a scenario to impress the international community that Tamils are being abducted and the Government is expelling Tamils in Colombo.

It was after the LTTE operatives and those who have been deployed by the LTTE on contract were being caught red handed they accused the Government and the Security Forces of violating the rights of the Tamil community.

Though the scenario created by the LTTE and the subsequent false media campaign gave a wrong impression about Sri Lanka internationally they could not stop the Security Forces from achieving their task.

The Security Forces faced this situation rightly and effectively establishing the rationale behind their cause of action to suppress terror activities in Colombo.

But the LTTE continued with their cause of action to make their activities safe in Colombo and make Colombo an insecure place by entering into legal procedures filing a large number of FR cases against the Defence authorities, Security Forces and the Police.

Through that the LTTE intended to discourage the Police and the Security Forces from raiding houses and arresting suspects.

The court ruling on permanent road blocks has also given a chance for the LTTE room to smuggle in explosives to Colombo and suburb areas.

According to Security Forces, the misunderstanding they had on the court ruling, made them remove even vital security road blocks creating a messy security situation in Colombo.

Therefore, the LTTE which was waiting for a chance to go ahead with their terror operations would have been active in their activities to smuggle various items to Colombo. The explosions that took place in Colombo and suburbs would have resulted after these security lapses.

The restrictions imposed on searches on residences during night hours would also be made use by the LTTE for their advantage to go ahead with their terror operations. History proves that the LTTE has always taken political complacency in the South for their advantage.

The assassination of former President R. Premadasa and Presidential candidate Gamini Dissanayake took place at a time political instability reigned in the South and cleared its name after committing the heinous crime.

The investigations now being conducted into the assassination of UNP Colombo district MP T. Maheshwaran reveals that the LTTE has taken full advantage of the situation in the South to commit the murder of the MP.

The gunman under the custody of the Police has divulged that he had worked for the LTTE since he was 16 years of age. Now he is 24. Therefore, it is quite apparent that the Tiger outfit is taking the full advantage of the political complacency prevailing in the South.

But the attempts now being taken by the LTTE in the South is consequent the assassination of head of LTTE's 'military' intelligence wing Shanmuganathan Ravishankar, alias Charles.

Charles believed to be a Deputy of the Tiger Intelligence leader Pottu Amman was the mastermind behind almost the terror attacks in Colombo.

According to the military he was behind the assassination of former President R. Premadasa, Navy Commander Clancy Fernando, attack on the Katunayake international airport, attack on the Sri Dalada Maligawa in Kandy, Central Bank bomb in 1995 and many other terror attacks in Colombo.

He was behind the assassination of the Army's Deputy Chief of Staff Major General Paramee Kulatunga who was killed by a suicide bomber in Pannipitiya.

It seems the Tiger organisation is badly upset over his demise at the hands of the Long Range Patrolling elite commandoes of the Army. According to the military he had handled all terror operations in Colombo and the South while his leader Pottu Amman was gathering intelligence reports from the South.

There had been a longstanding dispute between LTTE Intelligence Wing leader Pottu Amman and Charles. The rivalry has compelled Charles to leave for Batticaloa as he could not tolerate the leadership of Pottu Amman.

However, Tiger leader Prabhakaran who summoned him to the Wanni has given him the task of gathering military intelligence.

According to the military many of the Tiger operations in the South, though not completely suspended will be paralysed since he was the connecting figure behind all the intelligence operatives in the South.

The Tiger leadership will take time to reconnect all these links in the absence the military intelligence leader. The current trend of explosions taking place in Colombo might be due to the killing of the LTTE military intelligence leader as they are in desperate situation in Colombo without any direct link from the Wanni leadership.

Anyway, the military intelligence confirms that the Tiger outfit is determined to take revenge of the assassination of their military intelligence leader, though they did not make any hue and cry over the assassination of Thamilselvan in an air strike by the SLAF.

Therefore, it was strongly believed that the assassination of Nation Building Minister D.M. Dassanayake at Ja-ela was a tit-for-tat act by the LTTE to take revenge of the assassination of their military intelligence wing leader.

Successes on the Wanni fronts

However, it is obvious that the LTTE would go for any target in the South irrespective of their designations as they desperately need a VVIP target in the South due to the beatings they are getting in the Wanni and Jaffna fronts.

Security Forces confirm that they are gaining unprecedented victories in the Wanni during this period which had never been experienced by them during the 25 year long conflict.

In the Vavuniya sector where the 57th Division of the Sri Lanka Army operates along with Special Forces, ground troops have advanced more than 10 Km ahead of their original FDL. They have regained more than 250 square Kilometres earlier held by the LTTE.

In the Mannar sector the Task Force -1 or the 58 Division has already captured more than 40 square kilometres earlier held by the LTTE advancing towards North Mannar in three fronts, Parappakandal, Adampan and Neelachchenai.

The daily confrontations by ground troops have brought positive results killing at least 10 to 20 cadres per day. Even the Security Forces are surprised with the long list of names declared dead by the LTTE through their radio transmissions daily.

The number of Tiger cadres getting killed daily will increase as the SLA has already deployed the newly formed 59th Division for military operations from the Weli Oya sector, three days back.

With these developments the LTTE will have to deploy many cadres to confront the troops in the Weli Oya sector too. Therefore, they have no escape from the Security Forces in their efforts of protecting the Wanni strongholds.

It was in this backdrop that the LTTE Political Head P. Nadesan pronounced their wish to implement every clause of the CFA agreement and respect it 100 per cent.

"We also request that Norway should continue with its facilitation role with the support of the international community," Nadesan said in his statement when he met Norwegian facilitators in Kilinochchi yesterday.

This commitment by the LTTE also came at a time the Government gave an indication on Wednesday that it was ready to come out with its final draft of political proposals to address the genuine grievances of the Tamil community.

It was after lengthy arguments, within a democratic framework, that the All Party Representative Committee is due to come out with their final proposals to address the grievances of the Tamil community.

The LTTE is well aware that they have no existence in the international arena if the Government comes out with political proposals acceptable to the Tamil community after the LTTE is militarily defeated in the Wanni.

Therefore, the LTTE is now clearly desperate both ways to woo the international community at least to escape from the current desperate situation they are facing. Therefore, all Sri Lankans should unite behind the Government's efforts to defeat the LTTE militarily without falling into their trap at this decisive juncture.





