Struggle for independence and freedom in education

Gunapala WICKREMARATNE

The highly integrated four major groups of Siv-Helas: Rakshas - Yakkas, Nagas and the Ariyans evolved a common language - Sinhala. Sinhala nation and the langauge that evolved over the past thousands of years is heir to a civilization, that has its origins going back to over 20,000 years.

It is significant that, Nagas who were of Hindu Tamil origin formed a substantial component of the Siv-hela or Sinhala Nation. The non communal Sinhala nation, even today is open to integration through living together and freedom to communicate.

The life experience and tolerance resulting from the free movement and communication among the four groups were welded together after the three visits of the Buddha prior to 483 BC, followed by the official introduction of the Buddha Dhamma by Arahant Mahinda.

Within a very short period the subsequent settlers headed by Theri Sangamitta with the sacred 'Bodhi', brought about a revolutionary change int he culture of the people and their attitude towards life.

Temple, where traditional learning emerged. File photo

This was not 'Dik vijaya' or conversion by conquest, as was in opertion in Lanka, during the Portuguese (1505-1656 AD), and Dutch (1656-1796 AD) rule of the maritime provinces or the British rule from 1796-1948 AD.

It is of importance to note here, that Emperor Asoka of India gave up victory through conquest - Dik vijaya and achieved victory through the transformation and the mind - Dharma vijaya.

Other factors that united the Sinhala Nation were; (a) The Langauge of the people which was also the medium of instruction and (b) the great educational institutions headed by Mahavihara (3 BC); Abhayagiri (1 BC) and Tissa - Maha Vihara (2 BC); the most important centre of learning in Rohana founded by King Kavantissa (2 BC) father of the great liberator King Dutugamunu.

The most powerful factor that united the people or integrated them was the principle of the free but disciplined mind of the humans exposed to the Dhamma. According to Buddhism the mind is supreme. Man is his own master.

There is no benevolent god or power that sits on judgment over his destiny. Social cohesion of individuals is based on the freedom of thought. To force oneself to believe and to accept a thing without understanding is political and not spiritual or intellectual.

Buddha Dhamma is not a religion as commonly understood. It is a way of life based on ethical conduct, mental discipline and mindfulness or diligence; to be developed simultaneously in degrees, in accordance with the intellectual understanding of the individual.

The protection and promotion of all that stands for the Buddha, Dhamma and the Sangha including the viharas, chetiyas, relics, statues and bodhi tree. Venerated by devotees are included in the term Sasana.

When King Dutugamunu led the war against Elara the invader, he said, "not for the joy of sovereignty is this toil of mine, my striving (has been) ever to establish the doctrine of the Sambuddha" - M.V. Chip xxv:17.

Without protecting the sovereignty of Lanka and the Buddha Sasana there was no protection for the people of Lanka. It became a necessity for peaceful living and development politically, economically, socially and culturally.

The Sangha and the Buddhist laity respected other religions and their rights to practise, but never gave the misleading impression that the path leading to the realization of the absolute Truth is similar to or same as that of god centred religions, even when participating in non Buddhist other religious ceremonies.

The protection and promotion of the Buddha Dharma was declared under Article 5 of the Kandyan Convention. It states that; "Buddhism is inviolable, and promises the maintenance and protection of its rights, priests and temples."

Chapter II, Article 9 of the Constitution of the Republic of Sri Lanka states; "The Republic of Sri Lanka shall give to Buddhism the foremost place and accordingly it shall be the duty of the State to protect and foster Buddha Sasana", while securing to all religions the rights granted by Articles 10 and 14 (1) e.

Giving a talk on Science and Religion at Princeton University, New Jersey, USA on May 1939, Albert Einstein said, "The religion of the future will be a cosmic religion. It should transcend a personal god and avoid dogmas and theology covering both the natural and spiritual. It should be based on a religious sense arising from the experience of all things, natural and spiritual as a meaningful unity. Buddhism answers this description."

The acquisition of knowledge parcelled out as subjects or curricula in schools, universities and elsewhere, is for convenient intellectual study. The development of wisdom or panna - pragna is to comprehend the unity or inter relations of acquired knowledge and experience.

A good professional teacher ought to relate the subject matter taught to what is relevant in life experience. A university teacher ought to use the subject he teaches as a telescope to observe the universe as a meaningful unity to the highest degree possible in accordance with the mental development of his charges.

The great kings in our long history rallied the people to drive out the invaders for the protection of the Sasana. Protection of the Sasana was the protection of the people - The protection of the integrated Sinhala Nation. This in turn meant the protection of the territorial boundary of the Motherland which included the three Rata Sabha units of Ruhunu, Maya and Pihiti (Rajarata).

Educational institutions - Maha Parivenas

The international centres of learning for the whole Buddhist world based their studies on Pali and Sanskrit. In addition to the Buddha Dhamma sacred texts in Sinhala and at a later stage in Pali; secular subjects related to: agriculture, irrigation, construction, State craft and economics were subjects studied. A scholar from Nalanda or Mithila felt himself quite at home at Mahavihara, Abayagiri or Tissa Maha Arama.

A few seats of learning established before the 12th (Century AD, were the following: Mandalarama, Digha Sangha Parivena, Ghanthakara Vihara, Vessagiri, Issarasamana, Baddha Senapathi, Senasenapathi, Kappura Parivena and many others.

Magha the invader from South India occupied Rajarata for 21 years (1214-1235 AD). The invaders, "wrecked the image houses, destroyed many cetiyas, ravaged the viharas and maltreated the lay brethren. They flogged the children, tormented the five (groups of the) comrades of the order. Many books known and famous they tore from their cord and strewed them hither and thither." "The viharas, parivenas and many sanctuaries he made over to one or the other of his invaders as dwelling" - (MV 80.65 - 78)

This annihilation continued till Vijayabahu III liberated Rajarata in the year 1235 AD. Nothing is heard of Maha Vihara and Abhayagiri during the period 1214 - 1235 AD.

From the 13th Century onwards we hear of important centres of learning only in the Central and Southern parts of Lanka.

They were; Sarajakulavaddhana parivena, Devapathi Rajah parivena; Palabathgala monastery; Bhuvaneka Bahu parivena, Parakkramabahu parivena built by Parakkrama Bahu IV, in the early 14th Century and handed over to the Thera Medhankara entrusted with the task of preserving the 550 Jathakas; Kalyani Vihara, the abode of the Sangharajah of Vilgammula who wrote the Bodhiwansaya; Saddharma Tilaka parivena; Vihayabahu parivena renowned in the 15th Century under the presidentship of Totagamuwe Sri Rahula, built by Vijayabahu IV, which earned a high reputation as a centre of learning; Padmawathie parivena at Keragala presided over by the Sangharajah Vanarathana, learned in the doctrine spoken of as second only to Buddhaghosa, unrivalled as a scholar both in Lanka and India; Sri Ghanananda located at Raigama presided over by Mahanethraprasada Mula, Maitheya Thera; Irugalkulatilaka parivena, at Mulgirigala, a place close to Beliatta in the Hambantota district, presided over by the author of Kokila Sandesaya and Sunethradevi parivena built by Parakkramabahu VI in the pappota grove (Pepiliyana), to commemorate his royal mother. This was presided over by Mangala Sangharajah learned in the Tripitaka.

The Portuguese (1505-1656 AD) and Dutch (1656-1796 AD) periods

Almost all the parivenas which flourished in the Southwestern coastal belt of Lanka, succumbed to the ravages of vandalism by the Portuguese. The kings were busy fighting the enemy and had no time to patronize learning. This period can be called the darkest period in the educational history of Lanka. The only ray of hope for the future lay in the untiring efforts of Samanera Saranankara (MV 97.48).

The Portuguese until they were expelled in 1656, their policy was governed by territorial ambition, commercial greed and the desire for religious conversion. Every pagan was looked upon as an enemy of Jesus. This policy was prosecuted with the "rapacity, bigotry and cruelty which characterized every stage of its progress in the East", says, Emerson Tenant, the historian.

These ruthless marauders destroyed the vihara at Kelaniya, sacred to the Buddhists as the place sanctified by a visit of the Buddha. The Devala of Vishnu, the patron deity of Lanka, at Devinuwara, the most sumptuous temple in Lanka was sacked and razed to the ground. The principle of granting properties and preferential treatment in recruiting to the colonial services were the methods to convert the Sinhalese to the Catholic religion.

In 1658 AD the Dutch obtained the help of Rajasingha II to capture Portuguese territories, with the promise of surrendering the territories so captured in return for the monopoly of export trade of the country. But the treacherous Dutch did not fulfill the conditions stipulated in the treaty. Their wardship ended in 1796 AD.

The Dutch to convert the natives to the protestant religion, a proclamation was made that no 'native' "could aspire to the rank of Modelier, or even be permitted to farm land or hold office under Government, who had not first undergone the ceremony of Baptism, become a member of the Protestant church, and subscribed to the Doctrines contained in the Helvetic confessions of Faith", says Emerson Tennent.

The British through a process of intrigue, on March 2, 1815, in the Hall of Audience of the Kandyan Kings, the convention was signed. The only redeeming feature was Article 5, which guaranteed the inviolability of the National Religion - Buddhism and the "protection and maintenance of its rites, priests and temples".

Dr. Colvin R. de Silva in his 'Ceylon under British occupation' writes, "The chiefs were disappointed and discontented. The sangha was even more dissatisfied. The ascendancy of a Christian Government in the Kandyan province, constituted a distinct menace to Buddhism. The projected establishment of an English Seminary at Kandy for the Western education of the children of the chiefs further indicated the fear of proselytism."

In the aftermath of the rebellion of 1818 hardly a member of the leading families, the heads of the people, remained alive. Those whom the sword and the gun had spared, cholera and small pox and privations had slain by the hundreds. The descendants of the higher classes became ignorant and apathetic. Irrigation and education did not receive due attention. Parivena education ceased to function.





