Hindraf denies LTTE link

P. Uthayakumar, detained leader of the Hindu Rights Action Force of Malaysia, on Friday filed a defamation suit against Malaysian authorities for having portrayed him as an activist with links to the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam.

The suit was filed at the High Court in Kuala Lumpur through a law firm, while Hindraf Chairman P. Waytha Moorthy vowed to "continue" its "peaceful struggle for the rights of the minority [ethnic] Indians" in Malaysia.

Talking over the telephone Waytha Moorthy, now camping in London, said the Hindraf struggle would "continue to the end." He was seeking to set the record straight after he was quoted in some sections of the media as having said the Hindraf was fighting a losing battle that might be called off soon.

Uthayakumar, who was arrested along with four other Hindraf leaders under Malaysia's tough Internal Security Act (ISA) on December 13 last year, sought damages to the tune of 100 million Malaysian ringgit.

Waytha Moorthy clarified, over the telephone, that Mr. Uthaykumar had filed the suit "only for himself" and not on behalf of Hindraf. The two are brothers. As Legal Adviser to Hindraf, Uthayakumar was representing several "supporters" of the group in a case of alleged rioting, when Attorney-General Abdul Gani Patail first spoke of a suspected LTTE link. The Sessions Court judge did not record that submission by the Attorney-General.

Noting that the judge had "expunged" the remark, Uthayakumar told Hindu from Kuala Lumpur in early December that Hindraf had never fashioned links with the LTTE.

Waytha Moorthy said the "people power" of Malaysian Indians was now in focus.

However, "the ultimate power" lay in the hands of the government, and the "reality" was that the Malaysian Indians "cannot form a government to change [their] situation." It was, therefore, the "responsibility" of the Malaysian government to "make the necessary changes in the interest of the minority [ethnic] Indian community."





