Arson attack on London Kingsbury Buddhist Temple

JANAKA ALAHAPPERUMA, London

A suspected gang of LTTE supporters has attacked and set fire to the Sri Saddhatissa International Buddhist Centre (SSIBC) popularly known as "Kingsbury Buddhist Temple", Kingsbury, London in the early hours of Saturday, January 3.

The arson attack damaged to the main shrine chambers of the temple, which is one of the most respected Sri Lankan Buddhist places of worship in the UK.

All the resident monks were inside at the time flames broke out and emergency services including fire fighters and Police were called to the Temple premises around 3.10 am, but no one was injured. The suspected attack by unidentified persons caused damage only to the building.

The suspicion has fallen on LTTE terrorist supporters in London. This is the sixth time the SSIBC has come under attack, and on numerous occasions, suspects have stolen the Sri Lankan flag which is always proudly displayed on the post in front of the temple, along with the Buddhist and British flags.

A previous attack caused severe damage to the building, glass windows and the vehicles parked outside.

Meanwhile, the Sri Lanka High Commissioner in London, Justice Nihal Jayasinghe has vehemently condemned the Saturday morning attack on the SSIBC.

At the same time, he praised the Temple for its valuable services provided to various communities in the UK despite their different ethnicities.

The High Commissioner also called this continuous vandalism, a denial of pluralism. He further expressed his displeasure on previous lacklustre investigations carried out by the authorities and their inability to take any action in bringing the culprits to justice.

There have been many attacks on the temple and London community leaders, local politicians, multi-faith religious leaders, organisations and other related bodies are aware of the situation and are providing their fullest support.

A devotee said that the community is devastated by this incident at a peaceful religious place and enough is enough, this is the sixth time, at least this time we expect firm action from the authorities".

Another member of the Sri Lankan community said that the "liberation campaign victories achieved by brave Sri Lankan soldiers, especially the fall of Killinochchi has made many LTTE sympathisers angry and this is how they retaliate."

Despite the attack on the temple, Chief Incumbent of the Temple, Venerable Galayaye Piyadassi Nayaka Thero (MBE), Chief Sanga Nayaka of Great Britain said that the previously planned "Ranaviru Commemoration Bodhi Puja" celebrations for liberating the North and East of Sri Lanka and prayers for peace in Sri Lanka in the New Year 2009 went ahead as planned on the same day. Kingsbury temple also had a special religious programme on the New Years Day for the same cause.

It also had its annual Inter Faith religious programme recently with the participation of representatives of all the major faiths in Brent and Harrow Boroughs in London.





