Tamil politics

Tissa DE SILVA

With the Presidential Elections round the corner many opinions are being canvassed by those who claim to be Tamil intellectuals how the Tamils should vote. Various opinions are heard and seen in the Media and Internet. Who are these Tamils is the first thing which comes to my mind as an ordinary Sri Lankan. Are they thinking, first as a Sri Lankan and then as a member of one of the ethnic groups in Sri Lanka viz Tamil. Or vice versa?

One of the first reactions to a letter of mine on the elections from one of my friends of the 1960 era from University of Ceylon, was boycott the elections. I decided to ignore his advice sent to all batchmates of the Faculty of Engineering.

Back to school: Education facilities for IDP children. Pictures by Chaminda Hittatiya

The main reason for my ignoring that advice to voters was that Velupillai Prabhakaran too gave the same advice in 2005.

Boycott elections

Many Tamils now regret their decision but had to make it because of the gun held on their heads at that time in 2005 by Prabhakaran. Outcome of the election would have been different if the Tamils did not boycott the elections. The reason given by Prabhakaran the Racist in the style of Hitler and Gobbles was that it was a Sinhala Government whoever was elected.

Much has changed since 2005. Velupillai Prabhakaran and his gang of well armed murderers are no longer visible to intimidate the voter. The voter is today free to cast his or her vote.

Thanks to the leadership given by President Mahinda Rajapaksa to wipe the intimidation at the point of the gun by those who claimed to be part of a separate state within Sri Lanka.

Executive President

Then what the voter has to decide is what he or she will get by electing a person to the post of Executive President with all the powers given by the present Constitution drawn up by the UNP Government of 1977. While I leave the merits and demerits of the 1977 Constitution aside for another day the fact remains whoever elected will be coming with the power of the present Constitution, bestowed on him by the people of Sri Lanka. For the first time in the history of 32 years of the present Constitution a free election. The longest period under any Constitution from the time of the British been sent home in 1948.

Communication facilities for IDPs.

So why one ethnic group out of many who constitute Sri Lanka should be advised to ignore the elections. Who are these people who want the Tamil ethnic group to ignore the elections? Having lived in Australia for more than 30 years I must remind some who are giving this opinion to note that voting is compulsory in Australia. The main reason been that you are either an Australian or an alien not entitled to the common rights of all. He or she who does not vote has to pay a fine or decide to leave the country as he or she has failed in their basic civic responsibility.

Are they prepared to leave Sri Lanka now that it is one Sri Lanka within one world? Or are they the same as Vellupilai Prabhakaran who wore a Cyanide capsule round his neck and told the young minds to take it before been surrendered but was a coward who did the opposite.

National Parties

We might not know how Vellupilai Prabhakaran died but the fact remains that he never took the Cyanide capsule just as the rest of the leadership who were responsible to mislead the youth who joined the movement for a separate state.

Few Colombo Tamils have now come out, after being silent during the days of Prabhakaran where he controlled the so called Tamil intellects by the gun, to issue statements how the Tamils should vote.

IDP youth are provided with computor facilities.

Among them is another batchmate of mine Kumar David from the 1960s class of the Faculty of Engineering Colombo. He has issued a statement as well as a few others, including some elements of Tamil National Party to support Sarath Fonseka. Not the man who was responsible for giving them the freedom to move about after 30 years i.e. Mahinda Rajapaksa. The main reason given by these Tamil racists is that they have to support a change. I call them racist as I find it is high time that all politicians of Sri Lanka join or form National Parties and think in terms of the rights of the people to live as one nation. This would include the dissolving of parties such as Hela Urumaya, Muslim parties, TNA etc. There are many parties which represent all races as well as religions etc in Sri Lanka. They should take the example from Karuna who has now joined a national party been transformed within a few years from a armed racist group to a position of Senior Vice President of a National Party of Sri Lanka.

Some of those Tamil so called intellects such as Kumar David claimed the gospel of Marxist doctrine for many years from University days. But they have now decided to go more and more towards the so called rights of a racial group, and not rights of all who live in Sri Lanka.

Tamil political group

I ask Kumar David if he was a member of a Tamil political group during his 40 years in Hong Kong. Or did he enjoy the right to be working within a racist group in Hong Kong bent in destabilizing the Peoples Republic of China as agents for the British. Did China permit such political groups which want separate states? Will China tolerate Tibet or Taiwan as separate states?

I ask the same questions from these Tamil intellects now providing advice to all Tamils on how to vote. Many of them have lived for many years in the West and Australia. But those interested in politics joined the national parties but did not want to form racist parties lined to Tamil interests only. They obtained redress to any perceived disadvantage through the framework of the existing Constitution of these countries.

The main reason for some of these Tamil English speaking writers from Colombo and abroad is that they feel that if Sarath Fonseka is elected then the country will be destabilized and the interests of racial groups who think in terms of race or caste can obtain international assistance for separating the country. We all know that Sarath is been supported by two extreme ideologies i.e. the JVP on one hand with Pol Pot philosophy of State control over people and economy and that of the extreme right of the UNP which will sell the country to international Multi-Nationals. Two such extreme views cannot live together. It would be obvious for the people as well as for the Sarath to use it as an excuse to form a Military Government.

The question which the Tamils should be asking now, before the elections, is if a Military Government will be good for them? A military controlled by 100 percent Sinhala youth led by Western Educated officers.

Tamils should remember history of military dictatorships in the recent past. One which comes to my mind is Indonesia, where Suharto the Army Man disposed Sukarno. The man who kicked the Dutch from the East after many centuries and took power in the 60s. After Suharto till now we have seen Governments friendly to the West in Power in Indonesia.

Common man

The plight of the common man could be seen if one visits Indonesia. This is the same in Thailand which disposed of the elected premier and established a pro Western Government to continue with the exploitation of the country. There was a blood bath of Chinese in Indonesia.

In Thailand the Muslims have no rights. The main reason for it was that as a race the Chinese exploited the Indonesians, the excuse provided by Suharto and his military to get the peoples support. It could happen in Sri Lanka too under a military regime led by Sarath. Before long not only Tamils, but Christians, Muslims etc. will see his false promises to various groups if Sarath is elected by agents using funds from the West as well as may be from LTTE interests, which are widely spread in the world.

Each Tamil voter should carefully note what he or she would contribute to Sri Lanka as well as get from a Government of Sri Lanka and dispel the dream of a separate state, like the rest of the Sri Lankans and not be directed by those who claim to be Tamils. We as a nation should be very carefully of promises given by a man with a gun in one hand, and all power in the other hand.





