Christian Perspectives

St Sebastian Patron of athletes

Lenard R. Mahaarachchi

The feast of St. Sebastian, which falls on January 20 is celebrated within the course of the first month of the year in edifices dedicate to the saint all over the island.

St. Sebastian is a famous saint who is venerated the whole world over and his patronage is sought when inflicted with dangerous infectious diseases that occur during this time of the year. He is one of the few saints whose name appears in the Litany of Saints.

In the middle ages, he was especially invoked for protection against the plague. His feast is found in the early sacramentaries when the veneration of a saint was not a cult as it is today.

St. Sebastian

That speaks volumes for the integrity of this saint. January 20 is the day of his death, as it was the custom in the primitive church when it regarded the day of the death of a saintly man or woman, as the day of his or her birth in Heaven.

St. Sebastian's grave is in Rome, the Eternal City and a great edifice called St. Sebastian's Basilica covers his catacomb. The catacombs incidentally are, where the early saints' remains were interred, out of respect and not buried as in the case of poor mortals like us.

This magnificent basilica continues to draw crowds even today and miracles do take place yet.

The name of our saint is found in the early martyrology of the infant church a distinction that only a few men of God enjoy. You will find the statue of the saint as a youth bound to a tree and pierced with arrows and you will not find another statue with similar details. Strands of legend woven round this saint are legion in number and some narratives of his early life say that he died in AD 284, beaten to death, after he survived the shooting with arrows.

In his commentary on the Psalms, St. Ambrose extols the virtues of this saint and requests Christians to follow his exemplary life. Sebastian was a Milanese and while still a lad, joined the Roman Army. As there was a persecution of zealous Christians at the time, he went to Rome from Milan, to help the Christians.

In the Rome Army. Paul, a deacon who lived in the 6 century, narrates how when there was a pestilence in Rome, the citizens had recourse to this saint and presto the plague ceased with his intervention miraculously. In thanksgiving they had erected an altar and dedicated it to our saint.

In the Breviary (The book of Psalms read daily by priests) there is a reference to this saint as follows: "Diocletian, the Roman emperor tried all possible means to wean him away from his faith and when he failed ordered that he be bound and pierced with arrows till dead. Then his executioners left him for dead and a devout lady called Irene, arranged to bury him only to see him alive yet.

She nursed him till he recovered after which the saint went back to Diocletian and challenged him. The cruel emperor this time made sure that he be flogged to death.

St. Sebastian is the patron of athletes. Other stories of the life of the saint say that he was born in Narbonne, in Gaul and educated in Milan. When for the second time he was persecuted and his body thrown to a sewer, another devout lady had his body removed and the saint's remains re interred in the catacomb where it is to this day.

St. Sebastian has been declared the patron saint of Athletes by the Pope and not only athletes all sportsmen and women can have recourse to our saint for his patronage for which he is already famous for.

Pope urges generous response to Haiti's 'tragic situation'

Pope benedict XVI (R) arriving for a mass for the Feast of the Baptism of the Lord at The Sistine chapel. AFP

Pope Benedict XVI on Wednesday urged a generous response to the "tragic situation" in Haiti where hundreds are feared dead following a massive earthquake. The pope lamented Haiti's "tragic situation (involving) huge loss of human life, a great number of homeless and missing and considerable material damage."

"I appeal to the generosity of all to ensure our concrete solidarity and the effective support of the international community for these brothers and sisters who are living a time of need and suffering," the pontiff said at the end of his weekly general audience. The Roman Catholic Church will activate its humanitarian institutions to help address the immediate needs of the quake victims, Benedict said.

He urged people to "unite in prayer" for the victims and "those who mourn their loss."

The strongest earthquake to hit Haiti in over a century rocked the impoverished Caribbean nation late Tuesday afternoon.

Some of the country's oldest buildings, including Haiti's presidential palace, were destroyed by the 7.0-magnitude quake, which was followed by dozens of strong aftershocks. ROME, AFP

Weekly Devotions:

ADAM - the first man

It is good to start the New Year with resolutions - one of the best being, to keep your devotional times with God regularly. People try various methods, in order to have a system going - as I prayed to bring to you such weekly devotions for 2010, the idea that came to my mind is to deal with Bible Characters, so that their lives will teach us something to grasp on to spiritually, as God dealt with these individuals so painstakingly, in order to mould them into the person whom He wanted them to be.

The first person I am going to deal with is Adam of course! He was the first human being to ever live on earth. He was personally made by God -according to the Bible, Adam was created from the dust of the ground and then God actually breathes into him to give him life. Adam was formed in the image of God and therefore we humans too follow in the image of God.

We also read that God made this beautiful garden called Eden and gave man the authority to rule over all of creation, and allowed him to name every living thing, however Adam was named by God.

Adam had a beautiful relationship with God that no other human being would ever have, this was before sin entered and spoilt his relationship with God. Adam was the only man who was able to taste and see how good God was. Due to sin we are unable to have this privilege that Adam once enjoyed before sin entered the world.

Even when everything was perfect, God wanted to test man. Before sin entered the world it was in God's mind to test Adam- as God placed great importance in how man faired in his relationship with Him. The test was to prove that Adam portrayed obedience and trust and also that he kept his focus on God and not get distracted.

The first commandment was the most important commandment of all, which says in Deut:6:5

And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy might.

This was what God was examining in Adam's heart. As we know man failed and sin entered the world, and today we face a whole lot of consequences due to that. We must understand and learn from Adam's life that this test will come to every human being, and with Christ's help we can pass this test better than what Adam did.

The first man was of the earth, made of dust; the second Man is the Lord from heaven. As was the man of dust, so also are those who are made of dust; and as is the heavenly Man, so also are those who are heavenly. And as we have borne the image of the man of dust, we shall also bear the image of the heavenly Man.

(1Cor15:45-47)

Why is Jesus referred to as second Adam, when there were so many humans after Adam? This is because in Jesus we have the possibility of rectifying what Adam put wrong.

Yes, Adam failed, and plunged us humans into a penalty of death, and separation from God- but Jesus has been given the mission by God, through His sacrifice to give us a second chance of having access to God and putting matters right, and ending up with eternal union with God through Christ.

The second Adam is the perfect image of the perfect man, without sin, whom God intended the 1st Adam to be.

Hidden in this verse is the importance of choosing a spiritual life than a fleshy, natural life of Adam. May this New Year enable us to follow the spiritual pathway that Jesus has shown us.

Some of the weaknesses that showed in Adam was: He tried to evade responsibility and put the blame on Eve once caught sinning, did not turn away from sin but teamed up with Eve to give into temptation.

Lessons to learn: Take on responsibilities, obey and choose right, do not hide from God and Face up when we fail than blame others.

Prayer:

Holy Spirit, enable to see in me some of the weaknesses that Adam had and put these right within me, as I repent of my sins. Lord Jesus Christ help me to choose the pathway of spirituality where the scales of my eyes are removed to behold the beauty of Godliness. Lead me heavenly Father in this New Year, to open my heart to receive you and follow you.

Take over my life I pray, Lord Jesus. Amen.

Sunitha Sahayam

A giant 'Christmas tree' erected near the Chilaw St. Sebastian's Church by its parishioners during christmas. Picture by Munneswaram group corr.

Christian book launching project The Godage book publishers have launched a project to publish Christian/Catholic books regularly. It has published a series of books during Christmas. Books written by Rev.Fr. W.L.A. Don Peter and other eminent Christian writers were among them. The Godage publishers have planned to publish five Christian books per month.





