Business community hails economic package

Charmaine Fernando

Rienzie Wijetilleke

The business community expressed their views on the recent economic stimulus package introduced by the Government. Business leaders were of the view that this package is a timely gesture by the Government, which would have a positive impact on the future economy.

Chairman of Dilmah Group of Companies Merrille J. Fernando a leading corporate entity exporting value-added Ceylon tea to the world for over two decades, said "It is important that the Government has on its own initiative come up with some relief measures and incentives.

The tea trade specifically will benefit to an extent. It is a welcome gesture to motivate the tea exporter. The incentives will encourage more industrialists to engage in exports. These relief measures should have arrived earlier but better late than never".

Tea - a major foreign exchange earner for the country

"In Sri Lanka, where tea is a major foreign exchange earner, the Government should devise a disaster-preparedness strategy to act upon impending crisis or issue.

This would act as a safety valve to keep the heads above water especially in the context of a globally effected recession. It is timely to round up an intelligent committee of experts comprising the Producer, the Broker, the Packer and the Exporter, getting the industry together under one agenda, to have an on-going dialogue with the Government ignoring political clout.

This measure is crucial to keep the Government aware of problems, issues, and global trends in the market and request for support to counter the situation with alternate market strategies, before crisis hits." he said.

"When Sri Lankan economy depends on tea as a national source of revenue it is imperative not to leave it to chance."

More incentives and a financial package in support of the tea trade and measures to keep a tab on the entire tea industry and impending global developments would be a healthy move to stabilize the country's economy he said," and at the dawn of a New Year, a good first step. We hope the next steps to follow will usher in the smiles over tea" he concluded.

Rubber - in demand globally

A bountiful harvest

Chairman, Laugfs Holdings and award winning entrepreneur turned industrialist. W.K.H. Wegapitiya said, "This is a good move initiated by the Government. This price reduction comes as a result of two things.

One instance is when in co-relation to the world oil prices, LP Gas prices too fluctuate and global prices have parallel fluidity. Secondly, Automatic Pricing Formula affecting bimonthly gives the legal sanction to effect the price fluctuations. This price reduction on the eve of the New Year will have a positive effect on the Cost Of Living.

The majority in urban Sri Lanka and middle class segments in the rural areas, use gas for cooking as well as for industrial purposes. Their burden is reduced," he said and by March another price reduction is due and that is more good news for Sri Lanka".

"A crisis always brings positive opportunities. We thrive on challenges against global giants. That is the Sri Lankan spirit and we will survive the global impacting economic recession too, with stamina. Slashing of Government expenses is timely.

Without commitment and sacrifice nothing much can be achieved as an individual, a family or as a nation.

Resourcefulness is the way forward. We Sri Lankans will have to prepare to begin slashing expenses in our home fronts which is the best practice for survival especially at a time of crisis" he concluded.

Chairman of Hatton National Bank and veteran Banker revered in the financial circles Rienzie Wijetilleke said in a context where the world market oil prices are down considerably the Government should have made attempts to give more relief than mentioned in the mini budget, he said.

Coconuts - God's gift to man

He refrained from commenting any further. Ariyasiri Vithanage Chairman of Ariya Rice Mills, of Anuradhapura, a successful tradesman and a well known electronic-media presenter, also the Chairman of Tradlanka advertising company said "Some relief, any relief at all, is good news in these days of hardship for the masses, where the cost of living, is slowing down their pace." said the tradesman who owns the largest rice mill in Sri Lanka. "In life and business there are good times and the bad.

The country at present is experiencing a bleak period with a nagging war against terrorism.

The world is steeped in an economic crisis and we are very much a part of it.

In this context the Government takes own initiative to provide some relief to the consumer and the trade and must be commended. It came as a pleasant surprise. We believe, it is not the price, but the thought behind, that matters. Of course we are never satisfied with what little we get. We have a habit of always demanding more without appreciating what we have received.

The Government, with the spirit of the season provided what little measures they could possibly garner. May be this is the first step in a series.

The Government's positive move ushered in much hope for 2009.

"The fuel price reduction, though minute, will contribute much to ease the transport sector.

A single rupee off the bus fare means a lot to the everyday commuter", he said. When asked whether he plans to pass-off the benefits to the consumer he said "we are willing to support the Government's drive by giving back quality and value for money, to our consumer.

We have applied for SLS quality standard to make this possible.

Eventually as cost of production is brought down with best practices, Government incentives and measures we will be happy to maintain competitive rates as always", he concluded.

The Governments mini budget served its purpose. Created the right mindset as a prelude for good things to come. They all agreed on one thing that it was an extremely welcome move in the wake of a new year and a timely one at that.





