Venus looking to break long-running Aussie drought

Venus Williams has played 10 Australian Opens but is yet to win the singles crown, in stark contrast to sister Serena, who is a four-time champion and defending her title this year.

But she is not beating herself up about her comparative lack of success in Melbourne, insisting a major part of her game plan was staying positive.

"I know how to play tennis and I now just have to do it in Melbourne," she said.

Judging by past performances, she is unlikely to break her duck this year up against a strong field, led not just by Serena but returning Belgian pair Kim Clijsters and Justine Henin, as well as Maria Sharapova.

Ranked six in the world, she is likely to be pitted with Dinara Safina, Jelena Jankovic and Sharapova in her side of Melbourne draw, making her task doubly difficult.

Williams crashed out in the second round last year to Spaniard Carla Suarez Navarro and getting past that stage will be her initial aim.

While she has won five Wimbledons and two US Open titles, the Australian and French Opens have alluded her and she only ever made the Melbourne final once before, in 2003, when she lost to Serena.

She explains that she has often entered the first Grand Slam of the season carrying injuries and only settles into her game later in the year, in time for Wimbledon and the US Open.

But this year she has worked hard in the off-season to get in shape and warmed up last week at the Hong Kong Classic, beating Caroline Wozniacki and Zheng Jie.

"I have been training really hard on and off the court. It was nice to have some time off but I'm definitely ready to get back on the grind," the 19-time Grand Slam winner - seven in singles - said on her website.

"I have been trying to get back in shape with a hard core training programme. My main focus has been trying to get stronger and build up my strength to get me through the whole season."

Having earned over 25 million US dollars in prizemoney over the years, Williams could afford to sit back and take it easy.

But despite struggling for much of 2009, she is not ready to take her foot off pedal just yet.

"There's no timeline, if I'm playing well ... as long as I keep playing well, I'll stay," she said last week when asked about possible retirement.

With 41 career titles, Williams didn't fly as high last year as she did in 2008.

There was no Grand Slam title, although she did make it to the final at Wimbledon for the eighth time, only to be beaten by Serena. But she did win her 40th and 41st WTA Tour singles titles, spurring a rise to number three in the world for the first time since 2003. She also collected three Grand Slam doubles crowns.

Despite now being 29, Williams is still one of the most powerful baseliners on tour and packs a wicked serve - holding the record for the fastest at the Open, achieved in 2003 when she sent one down at 201kmh (125 mph)

She is also expected to play doubles with Serena, having won the title here last year. MELBOURNE, Friday, AFP





