Lanka commited to civilian safety

Foreign Minister Bogollagama reaffirmed Sri Lanka's total commitment to the safety and security of civilians in the conflict area in the North and stated that the Government's military action is only aimed at empowering people through a political process.

Ministers Bogollagama and Schwarzenberg

The Minister made this observation when he met the Presidency of the European Union (EU) represented by the Foreign Minister of the Czech Republic Karrel Schwarzenberg in Brussels on Tuesday. The meeting requested by Sri Lanka with the Czech Republic which assumed the EU Presidency since January 2009 was aimed at providing a briefing on the situation in the North and East, discussing the extension of the GSP+ facility, Sri Lanka's request to the EU to list the Tamil Rehabilitation Organization (TRO) and other LTTE front organizations and cooperation between the EU and Sri Lanka.

Matters of bilateral interest between Sri Lanka and Czech Republic were also discussed.

Schwarzenberg congratulated the Sri Lanka Government over its recent military success in the North.

While expressing hope that Sri Lanka would soon return to normalcy, he underlined the importance the EU attached to the safety and security of civilians. The Czech Minister also announced the readiness of the EU to assist Sri Lanka in post conflict restoration in the cleared areas of the North and East. Minister Schwarzenberg also underlined the urgency for a political solution to be found to the conflict.

Minister Bogollagama thanking his counterpart for his encouraging endorsement on the success of Sri Lanka in its struggle against terrorism stated that the Government would continue to pursue its goal of dismantling the LTTE structures and activities at home and abroad.

He also outlined President Mahinda Rajapaksa's determination to find a political solution to the conflict through constitutional means. Bogollagama also drew his counterpart's attention to the successful restoration of democracy and civil administration in the East. Describing the renouncement of violence and commitment given to adhere to democratic practice by some former LTTE leaders as a positive sign, Minister Bogollogama affirmed that the Government would soon restore normalcy in the North using the experience gained from the East.

Highlighting the increased activities of the LTTE Front organizations such as the TRO in Europe following the EU ban on the LTTE in 2006, Minister Bogollagama called on the Czech Presidency to lead other member countries towards eradicating the activities of the LTTE and its agents in Europe.

He highlighted Sri Lanka's concern that the LTTE, which is facing a major defeat in Sri Lanka, would be given a lifeline through front Organizations.

On the question of perceived impunity, especially against the attacks on the Sri Lankan media, Bogollagama appraised Schwarzenberg that investigations have begun on every complaint made and conclusions are nearing in some high profile cases.

Confirming the fulfilment of Sri Lanka's commitments over the GSP facility, Bogollagama expressed Sri Lanka's disapproval on the intrusive process on the extension of the GSP plus facility.

He called on the Czech Presidency's support for an early resolution of this issue.





