Nani backs on-fire Rooney to shoot down City

Manchester United winger Nani believes team-mate Wayne Rooney's form can make the difference as United seek to overcome Manchester City in their League Cup semi-final second leg here on Wednesday.

City hold a 2-1 advantage from last week's first game at Eastlands, with a place in the final against Aston Villa at stake.

Ryan Giggs opened the scoring last Tuesday, only for former United player Carlos Tevez to score twice to put City in the driving seat for what is sure to be a highly charged return match in the wake of Tevez's acrimonious public spat with former team-mate Gary Neville.

United boss Sir Alex Ferguson has insisted that United's away goal should count for nothing, as they should secure their trip to Wembley in normal time.

He has also hinted that Rooney's desire to play in every game and natural enthusiasm means that the England striker is unlikely to be rested after scoring all four goals in United's 4-0 win over Hull at the weekend.

Nani was also impressive against Phil Brown's Tigers as he made his comeback following several weeks out with an ankle injury.

The winger was hoping to fill the void left by Cristiano Ronaldo but has struggled for form this season.

However, he thinks he can build on his display against Hull.

He said: "Everyone is very happy. It's great to be top of the table and it's given everyone a lot of confidence. We're playing well, scoring goals and feeling good.

"The game against City will be very hard, but it's great that we have someone like Wayne who is in good form and feeling confident.

"It's great to see one of your strikers score four goals and it gives everyone confidence because we know we have someone who can score goals in every match.

"I'm sure it'll be a fantastic atmosphere against City and I'd love to be involved. Hopefully we can get the win.

"It was very frustrating to be out injured, but it happens in football. I'm back now and I feel very good.

"I was happy with my performance against Hull and I just want to keep improving every week so I can help the team be successful." Ferguson has already confirmed that Rio Ferdinand, who returned from a back problem against Hull, is unlikely to feature against City as he looks ahead to Sunday's vital Premier League game at Arsenal.

City lost 4-3 at Old Trafford in September but Brazilian defender Sylvinho thinks their playing style is perfectly-suited to playing away from home.





