The second prize will be a brand new three-wheeler and the third a motorcycle.

Consolation prizes will also be on offer. The draw will be held on April 27.The swimming pool is estimated to cost Rs. 30 million.

Trishaw driver stabbed to death

Rafik JALALDEEN

A three wheeler driver was stabbed to death in Wattala on Wednesday night, Wattala police OIC Percy Michael said.

The victim is Anil Perera, 25 a resident of Parakrama Mawatha in Hunupitiya, Wattala.

He was found dead inside the three wheeler parked near St. Anthony's School, with injuries on his head and face," Michael said. "We believe a person who hired the three wheeler had committed the crime," he said.

Wattala police is investigating.

Gang robs bonus money

Rafik JALALDEEN

Two gangsters had robbed Rs. 3.7 million at gunpoint from the Elephant House beverage outlet in Ranala, Kaduwela last morning, Navagamuwa police OIC Rohan Pushpakumara said.

Investigations revealed that two youth, one armed with a T56 rifle, arrived on a motorcycle bearing a fake number plate and threatened the security guards and stormed into the Elephant House outlet and fled with Rs. 3.7 million, the OIC said.

"According to a statement from company officials, the money was brought to pay bonus to the employees," he added.

Road temporary closed from January 12 to 31

The stretch of the Colombo-Kandy main road from Pasyala junction to Ambepussa will be closed for vehicular traffic from January 12 to 31 to facilitate road rehabilitation work, the Police Headquarters said yesterday.

The Police Headquarters in a press release said during this period, all vehicles proceeding from Colombo to Kandy could turn left from Pasyala junction and proceed to Ambepussa via Mirigama road, Giriulla and Alawwa.

However vehicles proceeding from Kandy to Colombo could take the normal route.

Short distance buses from Pasyala to Colombo could also use the normal Kandy road.

Remembering the MEP leader

The All Ceylon Harbour and Dock Workers' Union will mark the 107th birthday of late MEP leader Philip Gunawardene today by placing a floral tribute at his statue at gate No. 3, Sri Lanka Port Authority, Colombo.

Thaipongal Cup horse race meet

A Thaipongal Cup horse race meet organised by the Sri Lanka Turf Club will be held on Sunday from 10.00 a.m. at the Nuwara Eliya Race Course.

There will be six thoroughbred horse races. Several leading race horse owners have entered their horses.

The next race meet will be on February 3 for the 60th Anniversary Independence Cup.

Remembering Rukmani Devi

The Rukmani Devi memorial singing concert to commemorate her 85th birth anniversary will be held at the Colombo Public Library Auditorium on Tuesday. The event is organised by the Rukmani Devi Commemoration Organisation.

Help find this girl

Nipuni Gayathri, 19, has been missing since December 5, 2007.

Any information regarding this girl could be given to her mother on 0716651186 or the nearest Police Station.

Artistes to be feted

A special ceremony to felicitate the aged artists in the South will be held at Nilwala Institute of Education on January 18. Southern Province Chief Minister Shan Wijelal de Silva will be the chief guest at the ceremony organised by the Southern Province Cultural Affairs Ministry.

Annual photo contest

The annual photographic competition and exhibition organised by the Photographic Society of Kurunegala will be held at the Kurunegala Town Hall on February 22, 23 and 24.

Cultural Ministry commences literature book project

Cultural Affairs Ministry will get the professional writers to write literature books annually as mentioned in the Mahinda Chinthanaya.

Initially, a literature book will be written on the past and present events of Matara - 'Matara Vansaya'. Historical, social, economical and cultural articles will be included in this literature book and will be released in the State literary festival to be held in Matara.





