Indian Police bust Tiger credit card scam

* Two LTTE suspects arrested

* Fake passports recovered

* Global links being probed

Indian Police have busted a major LTTE fundraising scam involving the use of fake credit cards. In a major operation, a police team arrested two Sri Lankans in this connection on Saturday night in Mangalore.

Acting upon a tip-off, the police conducted a raid in a lodge in Mangalore and arrested the accused. The police have also seized 11 duplicate credit cards, duplicate passports and gold worth Indian Rs 300,000.

The fake credit cards

The arrested have confessed that they purchased gold ornaments at Karkal and Mangalore. Primary investigations revealed that the accused were collecting funds for LTTE through fake credit cards.

At the time of arrest, the duo were waiting for another Sri Lankan who was said to be the mastermind behind their operation.

During interrogation, the youths informed police that a Sri Lankan gave credit cards to them. They were asked to purchase gold ornaments from different jewellery shops from Karkala and Mangalore using fake credit cards.

Following his instructions, the youths purchased gold jewellery worth around Rs 300,000 and were waiting for the Sri Lankan kingpin to hand them over to him at the lodge. The youths have been assured a commission for the task by the kingpin.

It has been found that their SIM cards contained phone numbers of various persons in many parts of the world. The police suspected the involvement of international hands behind this racket.

The police have filed a case against them in connection with illegal migration and the use of fake credit cards.

Baala Ruban, one of the arrested, had been in Chennai in June 2006 and Sheelan had been India in January 2007.

They were stealing information from the shops by using credit cards. They were using software absorbing devices for stealing information.

The Dakshina Kannada district police have warned businessmen, bankers and other financial institutions to be cautious about fake credit cards.

The arrested had confessed that the fake passport found in the name of Kathiravelu Gunashelvan was prepared at Chennai. Mangalore North Police have registered cases against the arrested.





