Army deserters used to incite violence - NPOC

National Polls Observation Center's National Organizer Rasanga Harischandra said that some presidential election candidates used under world gangs and Army deserters to incite violence.

Speaking at a press conference held at the NPOC, Harischandra said from November 23 to January 17, 457 incidents had been reported.

The UPFA reported 141 incidents while the UNP and its allies 137, New Democratic Front 66, JVP 82 and others 31. He said that out of 457 incidents 16 were serious including three murders.

Harischandra added that these violent acts were instigated in an organized manner.

He pointed out that in some places complaints were made twice on a single incident. More than 1,200 NPOC observers are voluntarily monitoring the situation, he added.

Exco-Member of the NPOC Prasanna Adhikari said that bribing or threatening is a serious violation of election laws. It is a threat to free and fair election in a democratic society. Buying votes is also a conspiracy that violates democratic rights.

He said that certain political parties or persons bring pressure on voters using foreign funds.

He said that there were reports that some private institutions denied leave to its workers which is a violation of democratic rights. It would be brought to the notice of the Elections Commissioner, he added.

Lakshitha Jayawardene said that managements of media organizations should themselves reach a common consensus.

The 17th Amendment to the Constitution did not define the powers of the Competent Authority and whom he should be answerable.

In the near future it should have to be corrected, he said. Jayawardene said that President Mahinda Rajapaksa is not only the Head of State but also the Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces and Police. Therefore, he said the Government should take meaningful steps to curb the violence.

Saman Galapatthy said that 65 per cent of the polling cards had been issued. However, a person could submit the National Identity Card and cast his/her vote.





