Medical miracle at Karapitiya teaching hospital

Nimal ALGEWATTA, Southern Province Group Corr.

A medical team at the Galle Karapitiya Teaching Hospital led by Consultant Surgeon Andrew Fernando have performed a medical miracle by successfully grafting the severed hand of an accident victim after a five hour surgery.

Supun Nirodha Silva Samarasinghe (21) of Owakanda, Rathgama in one of his hands severed in a road accident at Rathgama on January 5. Neighbours rushed him to the Karapitiya hospital immediately carrying the severed hand in an icebag.

The youth was soon admitted to the hospital's emergency treatment unit where a six member medical team rushed to his aid and carried out a five hour operation and managed to graft the severed hand to the remaining stump successfully.

Dr. Saman Sajeewa Edirimuni, a member of the medical team recalling the feat said it was a Saturday and he was conducting routine operations in theatres A and B. All of a sudden he was alerted by the Emergency Treatment Unit saying a critical accident victim needing emergency surgery had been admitted to the Emergency Unit.

He immediately notified his superior officer Consultant Andrew Fernando. Dr. Fernando summoned four other doctors including him and Anaesthetist Dr. Hapuarachchi and rushed to the aid of the accident victim.

After examining the patient and rushing him to the operating theatre they decided to take up the challenge of rejoining the severed part on to the remaining portion of his hand.

During the operation there was excessive bleeding and they compensated by resorting to blood transfusion.

It was a sophisticated operation where bones, arteries and other parts had to be sutured systematically and they succeeded in putting the severed part of the hand back after a five hour operation.

The patient was now doing well and he would be back to normal after a few more minor operations.

Dr. Edirimuni said they were able to perform this successful operation because the people who rushed the victim to hospital had very correctly brought the severed part of the hand in a clean ice bag. The para medical and other minor staff were also of great assistance to the doctors.

The patient's parents Neil de Silva (48) and Prabha Jayathri Mendis were full of praise for the doctors and staff of the Karapitiya hospital who helped their son in his hour of need. They owed special word of thanks to Dr. N. C. Ratnayake for the services rendered.





