War heroes felicitated in Kuliyapitiya

Export Development and International Trade, Minister Prof. G.L. Peiris said the whole nation is indebted to the parents and the families that offered their children, their most precious possession to the battle to protect our motherland. Such families should be honored and felicitated by all, irrespective of one's political philosophies and party affiliations, he said.

He further stated that the worldwide belief that terrorism cannot be defeated by military means has been proven a myth by our own war heroes, the minister said speaking at the ceremony to felicitate the families of the war heroes organised by the North-Western Province Combined War Heroes Association.

This province has the highest representation in the Tri-Forces and the Police.

This special meeting was held at the President's Shilpa Shalika premises at Kuliyapitiya attended by over 3000 war heroes, their wives, children and families.

Prof. Peiris said "Venerating those who should be venerated is one of the qualities of our cultures. Therefore we should admire this activity conveying our gratefulness to the families of those who fight to save our motherland at the risk of their lives," he said.

"Our war-heroes have made the greatest sacrifices that can be made as a human for the motherland. Giving away wealth is not difficult if one has wealth. Sacrificing one's eyes, arms, legs and lives are not so easy.

"The attention of the entire world is now focused on Sri Lanka. Terrorism is a malignant presence throughout the world, and is not confined to Sri Lanka or South Asia. In recent times, the opinion that terrorism cannot be addressed at the battle field was prevalent in the international community. Now the world accepts that Sri Lanka is the best example that negates this opinion.

Our war-heroes have already made this opinion a myth. This was possible due to the great sacrifices of our brave war-heroes," he said.

President Mahinda Rajapaksa and the Government have provided all that is necessary for this endeavour. There is no greater wealth for parents than their children. The decision to bestow this ultimate possession to the motherland is a superlative one. The whole country expresses gratitude to them, transcending all political philosophies and party affiliations.

"This is a humanitarian operation, and not a cruel war. The President came forward to create an environment where all nationalities live in freedom, peace and hounour. We can all see the establishment of democracy and development following the liberation of the East. The objective of the operations in the North is the same.

The Government should be strengthened to continue this effort successfully. Ensuring victory in North-Western and the Central Provinces will strengthen the endeavour to liberate the North and bring Sri Lanka together as country again."

"This time, these forces threatened to withdraw the GSP+ duty concessions when the Tigers were hit hard. Foreign assistance was cut. Reports alleging human rights violations were published. They tried to reverse this journey.

But with the authority of the people's mandate of 2005, President Mahinda Rajapaksa, Defence Secretary Gotabhaya Rajapakse, Army Commander General Sarath Fonseka and the Tri Forces continued this humanitarian operation resolving not to bow to any force in the world. The broad support of the people of this country was the strength to move this forward." he said.





