Chevron gives $ 30 million to Global Fund

Chevron annou-nced that they will be giving $ 30 million to The Global Fund to fight AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria. Chevron is the first member of the Global Fund's new Corporate Champions programme.

According to a company spokesperson, this contribution demonstrates their strong commitment to the role public - private partnerships can play in improving health around the world.

'The Global Fund selected us as their inaugural Corporate Champion in large measure because of our proven commitment to communities where we operate. Like the Global Fund, Chevron emphasises the partnership model, which is fundamental to our community engagement approach.

The Global Fund also values the community engagement programmes we already have in place to tackle AIDS and malaria, especially our global HIV/AIDS policy, which was recognised by the Global Business Coalition with a Business Excellence in the Workplace Award.'

In a news release announcing this contribution, Chairman Dave O'Reilly highlighted values the organisation shares with the Global Fund and emphasised the business cause for this contribution, "HIV/AIDS, TB and malaria are critical health threats in many of the communities where we operate around the world.

The key to the success of the Global Fund has been the strength of its partnership and collaboration model, which is an approach that Chevron shares. For a company such as ours, it makes clear business sense to join with the Global Fund and apply our joint resources in the fight against these diseases," the spokesperson said.

This $30 million contribution will be invested over a three-year period and directed to Global Fund-supported programmes in Angola, Indonesia, Nigeria, the Philippines, South Africa and Thailand - countries where Chevron has significant operations, where the Global Fund has an established track record, and where this investment can make the most far-reaching community impacts.

'As a Global Fund Corporate Champion, we will leverage our people and assets to improve the scope and effectiveness of our existing programmes and community projects that combat AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria. We will also lend management skills and business infrastructure to develop and implement national strategies in the fight against these diseases.'

"Global companies with large, long-term investments in developing countries understand that fighting disease is a necessary part of their strategic investments," said Chairman of the Board of Directors for The Global Fund Rajat Gupta.

"The Global Fund provides the opportunity for these companies to make effective, results driven investments in national health programmes. We are extremely pleased with the commitment from Chevron."

The Global Fund has been sponsoring partnership programmes around the world to fight AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria since 2002.

Worldwide they provide over 20 percent of all the international financing to fight AIDS and two-thirds of the financing to fight tuberculosis and malaria.

During 2007, The Global Fund gave $537 million to fight HIV/AIDS; $471 million to combat malaria; and $111 million to defeat tuberculosis.

"The business community has a lot to offer in helping defeat AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria," commented former U.S. Ambassador Richard Holbrooke, Chairman and CEO of the Global Fund Business Coalition.

"The Global Fund Corporate Champions programme provides a significant new way for major multinational corporations to serve their communities without having to become experts in global health.

Chevron's leadership and commitment to this new avenue is a major step not only for the Corporate Champions programme, but also for business engagement in the fight against the three diseases."

As the first Global Fund Corporate Champion, Chevron is joining a unique partnership of governmental, private sector, charitable and community organisations dedicated to eradicating AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria around the world.

Since 2002, programmes the Global Fund has sponsored have treated 1.4 million people for AIDS and 3.3 million people for tuberculosis. They have also distributed 46 million insecticide-treated mosquito nets to prevent malaria.

The real business of the Global Fund is saving lives, and we can all be proud of our partnership in this worthy cause, the Chevron spokesperson further stated.

Bogawantalawa to diversify operations

At the recently concluded Colombo tea auction, the Norwood garden mark of Bogawantalawa Tea Estates Limited (BTEL) recorded the highest price of Rs. 375 for Dust) grade and a further Rs. 345 for the Bogawantalawa BOP grade, while the Norwood and Loinorn garden marks recorded Rs. 345 for their BOP Fannings.

Norwood and Loinorn estates come under the umbrella of Bogawantalawa Tea Estates Ltd. owners of the brands, Bogawantalwa and Ceylon Tea Gardens. Bogawantalawa is also a leading brand in the local tea market with its range of export quality, estate direct teas being made available throughout the island.

Bogawantalawa Tea Estates have also won global recognition for the manner in which they care for their workers and children. Some of the community development programmes sponsored and undertaken by Bogawantalawa Tea Estates are as follows:

Upgrading of the Wanarajah estate lower division creche is nearing completion, and 10 more creches are scheduled to be upgraded to become Child Day Care Centres in the near future.

Postnatal care programmes providing better conditions for mothers and children are currently under way while programmes are being planned to educate mothers on proper nutrition, feeding, malnutrition etc.

Assistance has been provided to estate workers in obtaining electricity to their homes while the company has intervened in facilitating bank loans to encourage saving habits among the plantation community as well.

The investment on human capital is supplemented by larger financial outlays in new tea machinery and modern technology to convert old fashioned upcountry tea factories into model processing centres.

Over Rs. 100 million has been allocated for the installation and commissioning of wood based steam boilers that consumer liquid fuel for withering and firing of tea. The company, last year planted over 60,000 eucalyptus grandis plants in the upcountry tea estates under their "managed forestry plantations" project.

These activities will enable the company to explore the possibility of obtaining carbon credits under the certified emissions reductions (CER) awarded by the United Nations for their environmental friendly activities undertaken by the estates.

Chairman of Metropolitan Resource Holdings Ltd D.J. Amabani, owners of Bogawantalawa Tea Estates Ltd, says that the owning company plans to invest further for the development of the estates coming under the purview of Bogawantalawa Tea Estates Limited.

The investing company has diversified business interests in selected areas such as hydropower, telecommunication, consultancy services and tea exports in addition to the existing Plantation Holdings.

LFSUS to uplift slum dwellers

LFSUS (Lanka Financial Services for Underserved Settlements) is non-profit company set up in Sri Lanka, through a MOU between the United Nations Settlements Programme (UN-HABITAT) and the Ministry of Urban Development and Sacred Areas Development.

The SUF achieves its objectives through dedicated technical assistance and targeted credit enhancement.

The Emerging Markets Group, London (EMG) an international development consulting firm has been engaged by UN-Habitat to provide the needed technical and management input to the initiatives in Sri Lanka.

LFSUS is a company registered as a non profit company under section 21 of the Companies Act, in order to uplift the living standards of slum dwellers through the development of bankable projects that promote affordable housing for low-income households.

The board of directors of LFSUS is a combination of professionals across the Government as well as the private sector, bringing together a wealth of experience and expertise to this endeavour.

Chairman of the Board-(representing the Bankers Association) DGM Personal Banking and Network Management Hatton National Bank P. Abeywickrema, Secretary Ministry of Local Government and Provincial Councils Cashian Herath, Additional Secretary Ministry of Urban Development and Scared Areas Laxshman Perera, Director Ministry of Finance and Planning P. Sumanapala, President Elelct.

The Organisation of Professional Associations of Sri Lanka Elmore M. Perera, General Manager Sri Lanka Women's Development Services, Cooperative Society (Women's Bank) Ltd Nandasiri Gamage and the Country Coordinator for SUF, Ayanthi Gurusinghe.

International advice and support for LFSUS is channeled through EMG the Pilot Team of SUF (Slum Upgrading Facility), a programme that is being carried out in five countries including Sri Lanka, Indonesia, Ghana, Kenya and Tanzania assisting governments in four key areas which are co-ordination of technical assistance, seeding capital initiatives to develop bankable projects, upgrading of slums and provision of urban infrastructure.

The SUF Pilot Team which includes several international professionals in related fields envisions offering LFSUS free consultation and management advice for the initial period, presenting LFSUS with an invaluable opportunity to benefit from key personnel who possess extensive experience and involvement in Slum Upgrading.

LFSUS also includes the invaluable service of NDB Bank as its Trustee Bank for this venture that is aimed at the upgrading of the lives of slum dwellers in key cities across Sri Lanka.





