The story of 'Gen.' Mahinda Rajapaksa and 'Col.' Gamini Fonseka

Prasad GUNEWARDENE

Editor-in-Chief, of the mass circulation Indian Express Shehkar Gupta says President Mahinda Rajapaksa looks a soldier though Rajapaksa had never served the Army. Shehkar made such an observation while conducting NDTV's 24x7's Walk the Talk, a few days ago. President Rajapaksa shot back in lighter vein saying-"I acted as a soldier".

'Gen.' Mahinda Rajapaksa

'Col.' Gamini Fonseka

This interesting dialogue between Shehkar and Rajapaksa brought to my memory on Mahinda Rajapaksa's cinematic talents and how he stepped into the silver screen to act as a Army General. Mahinda from his youth had many facets and talents as an acrobatic man. Fit as a fiddle, with an average height, he possessed a commanding personality similar to a soldier with a straight walk.

Sri Lankan's doyen of the silver screen, the late Gamini Fonseka observed this young man Rajapaksa from the 1970's. From that time Gamini was determined to have this young man in his films.

But, Rajapaksa, born to a political family moved towards politics as his profession. Like Rajapaksa, Gamini too was a determined man. He never gave up. Rajapaksa's victory at the 1989 General Elections and Gamini's debut to Parliament at the same poll brought the two men more closely.

Rajapaksa standing in the Opposition and Gamini sitting in the middle as Deputy Speaker provided more opportunity to Gamini to observe the talents of this budding man Rajapaksa.

In that Opposition of the Sri Lanka Freedom Party, Rajapaksa was a tough figure alongside former Royalist ruggerite and CR&FC Fly Half, Clement Victor Gooneratne, popularly know as CV.

The Rajapaksa-Gooneratne combination was strong enough to take on at least 15 Government members together at times of 'crises'.

Whenever Gamini Fonseka took the Chair, he would ensure that Rajapaksa was inside the Chamber. How? Rajapaksa was one of the two privileged opposition members (the other being the late Dharmasiri Senanayake) who could visit the Deputy Speaker without appointment.

Gamini was very close to Rajapaksa and the latter was even afforded the opportunity to use his office in Parliament as opposition members did not have official rooms. So, Mahinda Rajapaksa was constantly seen in the Deputy Speaker's office though they represented two different political parties.

Their friendship was greater than politics. Gamini afforded all these facilities to Mahinda to study the latter's movements, expressions and hidden talent. I was then the Parliament Lobby Correspondent for 'The Island" newspaper. Since Gamini was my uncle, one day I asked him why Mahinda Rajapaksa was always in his office."

Well, first of all that's not your business and Mahinda like me doesn't fear anybody and I will tell you why in time to come". I kept silent as I knew my uncle never wanted a second question from me.

One day there was commotion inside the Parliament Chamber. The Chair gave a ruling to oust Matara District SLFP MP, H.G. Sirisena (now Director-Development Lottery) for violating orders from the Chair.

Former Sergeant-at-Arms, the late Ronnie Abeysinghe was instructed to bodily remove Sirisena from the chamber. Ronnie was also a well built stocky man who was earlier Mr. Ceylon. As Ronnie marched towards Sirisena, CV Gooneratne advanced towards Ronnie to prevent Sirisena being carried away.

The Chair furious over the developments, directed the Parliament Officer-In-Charge of the Police, Chief Inspector Subash Weerasinghe (now Superintendent of Police) to bodily remove Sirisena. Weerasinghe summoned policemen to follow him to the chamber.

The news reached the ears of Mahinda Rajapaksa. In walked Rajapaksa from the Opposition entrance, almost pole vaulted from the third row to the 'well' like a soldier. None could stop him.

He took on the advancing posse of policemen all by himself and the cops disappeared within seconds. Sittings were suspended and Rajapaksa won the day for the Opposition. In the pandemonium, Gamini Fonseka observed the acrobatic role played by Rajapaksa to defend Sirisena.

At lunch time that day, when I met uncle Gamini on the corridors of the first floor, I was told to inform Mahinda that the Deputy Speaker wished to see Rajapaksa at his office. I conveyed the message to Lakshman Kiriella who was on his way to the Members' Dining Room.

This was the time that Gamini Fonseka gave thought to do a film on the war in the country. He was also in the process of studying the talents of his colleagues in Parliament.

The "Sirisena episode' in the House that day gave an insight to Gamini as all members irrespective of political parties and race were involved in the incident where Rajapaksa led from the front.

Thereafter, Gamini began to invite these five prospective actors regularly to his office for friendly 'chats' at leisure time. It was done with a purpose. He discussed the war and the ethnic problem at length with them. By then he had already framed the script in his mind. But, the five men were never told what was in the offing.

Sometime later when I walked into the Deputy Speaker's office to meet uncle Gamini, Mahinda Rajapaksa was just making his exit from his room talking to Gamini's Coordinating Officer, Al Fassy Sherriff. I sought permission to speak to him.

He said, "Wait a minute man, I am doing some changes to a script". I asked what it was. He said," Earlier, I planned to play the character of a General but now I want Mahinda to play that role as he has a commanding personality". With changes done to the script, Gamini demoted himself to the character of a "Colonel" giving way for Mahinda Rajapaksa to play "General".

The film was the "Nomiyena Minissu" which paved the way for Gamini's long time dream to make Mahinda Rajapaksa an actor. Today, the celluloid "General" of "Nomiyena Minissu" is the true Commander-in-Chief of all Armed Forces in his capacity as Executive President.

EXTRACT - NDTV 'Walk the Talk'

Shehkar - You never went to the Army, but you look a lot like a soldier.

President - I acted as a Soldier.

Shehkar - You acted as a General in a movie?

President - Yes

Shehkar - Movies apart, war is a dirty business.

President - I had a very good friend, a good actor. He is one of the best actors in Sri Lanka, Gamini Fonseka. He asked me to act in the 1970s but I said 'no'. When I was a young MP in 1970, he asked me to act in a film but I declined. Then he became an MP and became the Deputy Speaker. One day he invited me to come and act as a General. My brother, who is the Defence Secretary, was a Colonel that time, and I thought...

Shehkar - In one shot you'll become five ranks above him?

President - Yes, I thought I'll give him a call immediately and tell him I'm already a General.

Shehkar - I believe the film was about the LTTE, as well.

President - Yes. About capturing a person and a team goes to rescue a prisoner.





