US $ 105 m for road development

A US$ 105 million road development project has been designed to rehabilitate 350 kms of C and D class roads in Northern, Eastern and Uva provinces. The

From left: World Bank Senior Infrastructure Specialist, Amali Rajapaksa, World Bank Country Director for Sri Lanka, Naoko Ishii and World Bank Senior Communication Officer, Chulie de Silva at the press briefing yesterday. Picture by Saliya Rupasinghe

project has been prepared as a joint program for the road sector between the Asian Development Bank (ADB), the Japan International Corporation Agency (JICA) and the World Bank, World Bank Senior Infrastructure Specialist, Amali Rajapaksa told a press briefing yesterday.

The main objective of this project is to increase the share of roads in fine condition in Northern, Eastern and Uva provinces enabling easier and faster access to markets and other socio-economic centres.

Development of provincial roads project is expected to be completed by 2015 and the US$ 105 million credit from the International Development Association (IDA), the World Bank's concessionary lending arm will completely finance the project.

She said that the development of provincial roads is to support the routine and periodic maintenance activities through a comprehensive road maintenance program and assist in improving the performance of the provincial road departments.

The work will include rehabilitation and widening of existing roads inclusive of bridges with construction of lined drains and retaining walls.

The project has allocated a total of US$ 90 million for the refurbishment of provincial roads and of that US$ 50 million for the reconstruction of 150 km of roads in the Uva Province, US$ 20 million each to reconstruct 100 km roads in the Ampara district and 100 km roads in the Jaffna district, Rajapaksa said.

The project has allocated US$ 10 million for road maintenance development. This will financially assist the maintenance activities and setting up safety signs on recently refurbished roads. She said US$ 5 million has been allocated to improve the performance of the provincial road departments, which will strengthen the areas of contract management, procurement, social and environmental safeguards and capacity development of the construction industry.





