Lost opportunities and climate change Can Sri Lanka wait?

Wasantha Ramanayake in Copenhagen

Ours is a country of lost opportunities, the war has deprived us of many things; to become an aviation and a marine hub, oil explorations, to become a up-market tourist destination, out of which other countries in the region benefited. Now these are our priorities. However, for many countries across the globe it is a different reality. They are in a transition. They are giving up oil and coal for alternative energy sources such as wind, solar, bio-mass even nuclear, continued Environment Minister Champika Ranawake.

Environment Minister Champika Ranawake address the Copenhagen cop 15.

The UN climate summit tagged "World's greatest debate," "Greatest debate on earth," heard and seen through media across Europe during December 07 -18, it was not so much to ours i.e. local media. What is wrong with ours? Fair enough, it is a debate on the very existence of entire human civilization. Minister Ranawaka voiced his concerns and opinions; what does climate change meant to Sri Lanka, while having a break during exhaustive negotiations during the UN Climate Summit in the Danish Capital.

"Many countries are in this historical transition from oil and coal to wind, solar, bio-mass and even nuclear," he continued. Developed countries in Europe, Britain and even America have set to reduce oil and gas consumption reducing carbon dioxide emissions.

"Even advanced developing countries such as India and China are in reshaping their energy outlook i.e. that they are phasing out of coal and oil.

"These countries are in a transition period from the fossil fuel to green energies," driven by the drastic effects of climate change and scarcity of petroleum resources, the Minister pointed out.

Fading fossil fuel and threatened sustenance of civilization

He pointed out that one reason for moving away from fossil fuel is the scarcity of the coal and fossil fuel such as diesel.

"Only last year we experienced oil-shock as oil prices went up record levels," the oil shock reminds us of the grim reality of solely basing on the fossil fuel. If we do not find alternative energy sources, human civilization could not sustain.

The Minister explained that the fossil oil is a limited resource that would eventually run out and the production would reach its maximum or the upper limit and then it should go down.

The oil production of the world is likely to peak in 2015 and would begin to go down eventually. So are the other fossil fuels such as petroleum gas, and coal. Minister said that the petroleum gas would peak its production between 2020 - 2025 and coal production would peak between 2030 and 2035.

Scarcity is one reason for these countries to invest a lot of money in the sustainable energy projects such as Wind, solar and bio-mass before a crisis could occur, for smoother transition without major changes in the life styles.

Apart from the scarcity, the Minister pointed out the water, soil, air especially ozone pollution would be another factor forcing this transition from fossil fuel to other energy sources.

The most important of this pollution is the heat pollution i.e. heat accumulation due to excessive green house gas emissions such as carbon dioxide, which would warm the earth that would trigger drastic climate changes. He said that the 60 percent of the global warming is caused by fossil fuel burning.

Section of the huge lounge area of the Bella Centre, Copenhagen, venue of the UN climate summit.

Sri Lankan reality

He says that majority of people are not aware of what climate change is, although they are just in the middle of it let alone their perception of it in terms of threat to the very existence of the human civilization. How long could we be in ignorance and inaction? Minister Ranawake predicted that the country will have to grapple with the issue very soon, may be in less than a decade.

Inter-Governmental Panel on the Climate Change (IPCC), the expert UN body of climate scientists who regularly research and report on the subject, predicts more rains in the wet zones and lesser and lesser rain in dry zones.

The Minister explained that in the Eastern Province priority of people could be to conserve water; however, in the west where more rain is predicted, it would have other related challenges.

In the west rapid urbanization and more rain in more humid and hot weather poses increase in vector borne disease such as Dengue and Malaria. "What is the use of life in sick cities," he queried.

But have not we done anything?

Government initiatives

"We have," the Minister says. The Government has taken the initiatives; it has taken several policy decisions but adds that there are more to be done. He pointed out that Sri Lanka could not phase out fossil fuel to reduce CO? emissions; since it does need a lot of energy from oil, gas and coal for the development and there could be hardly any money to be invested in very costly alternative energy projects. The post-war development of the Northern and the Eastern provinces, infrastructures development and livelihood development are the basic priorities of the Government he said.

The Minister stressed "that the short-term development goals based on the fossil fuel is not sustainable and short lived. We need to look at these issues and we need policy changes to contain these issues." The Green Lanka initiative is designed to address the policy issues to take Sri Lanka. Green Lanka focuses on a number of environmental issues; water shed conservation, water body management, soil conservation, air quality management, clean energy generation using bio-masses, solar and wind energy, to improve public transport. In agriculture, the main focus is on the production of chemical free organic foods and clean industries and waste recycle and waste management.

He said that the industries based on renewable energy and renewable energy industry would create a large number of employment opportunities and could save a lot of foreign exchange.

He said that the Government has taken a policy decision to limit coal fired power plants to two. He also pointed out that in the years to come priorities of the Foreign Ministry too could see a change to climate change issues.

"We do not want benefits but want money for the environment debt we the rich countries owe to the developing."

Is Sri Lanka not vulnerable?

Commenting on possible Copenhagen outcome Minister Ranawake said that a political agreement would not be effective in combating the climate change. He said that the political agreement would not be bound by any international law. "This is the question of civilization, it is not a mere survival problem," he reiterated. Sri Lanka although highly vulnerable to Climate Change it is placed in a relatively disadvantageous position, the Minister said.

The Minister revealed that the country has heavily suffered by the last year's heavy rain and this year's prolonged drought that had devastated rice harvest by 15 percent and 25 percent respectively. But Sri Lanka is not recognized as a "most vulnerable country, or a least developed country."

We do not belong to any of the countries categorized as the least developed such as Ethiopia or Afghanistan or most vulnerable countries to climate change such as Malawi or Vietnam that have better chances of getting the assistance for adaptation and mitigation to the climate change from the developed countries.

The Minister disclosed that Sri Lanka has applied for the membership under the both categories and the applications are still pending.

The Minister, however, pointed out that the country would be benefited by the Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation (REDD) program under the UNFCCC. "We are carbon neutral," the Minister argued. He elaborated that total annual carbon dioxide emissions from the country is 12 million tons is absorbed by the country's forests cover. He said that under the REDD program the country's forest cover which is a major carbon sink would get financial assistance for its maintenance without being subject to the deforestation for timber or cultivation. He said that Sri Lanka had submitted an action plan and the country would get benefits after 2011.

The Minister also voiced the common concern of many countries; that the United States, which is the second largest Co 2 emitter, has not signed the Kyoto Protocol and regarded it as a major setback. The Minister said dearth of commitments by developed countries who were historically responsible for the GHG emissions, annually causes the death of 300,000 persons especially in the developing countries and render some 16 million annually affected.

The Minister warned that the failure to address the issue would result in climate change terrorism, migration and host of other related issues which could be very complex and hard to deal with.





