Online edition of Daily News - Lakehouse NewspapersThe transportation of essential consumer goods to Jaffna peninsula, via the land based A-9 road recommenced yesterday, after a lapse of more than two decades. A convoy consisting of more than 25 lorries and containers carrying over 350 metric tons of essential food items left the CWE warehouse in Welisara yesterday morning, after a simple ceremony, chaired by Social Services and Social Welfare Minister Douglas Devananda. 

 The first essential consumer supplies convoy consisting of more than 25 lorries and trucks carrying more than 350 metric tons, left for Jaffna via A-9, yesterday morning, after a lapse of more than 20 years. Here Jaffna parliamentarian and Social Services and Social Welfare Minister Douglas Devananda inspects the lorries prior to its departure. - Picture by Ranjith Jayaweera Minister Devananda addressing the gathering described the use of the A-9 to transport goods to Jaffna as a very significant development in bridging the North and the South. While complementing the Security Forces who gained full control of the A-9 highway last month, the Minister said the use of A-9 to its full potential, after a lapse of more than 20 years, would act as a catalyst for a new economic resurgence in the peninsula. The use of A-9 to transport consumer goods to Jaffna is expected to bring down the cost of living in the peninsula drastically. In addition, the travel costs of Jaffna residents, who want to visit areas in the South including Colombo are expected to come down in a big way with the resumption of public transport via A-9 in the near future. During a major period of the last two and a half decades, authorities had to resort to the costly exercise of using sea and air routes, when transporting goods and passengers to the Jaffna peninsula. I n addition the doors of the southern market too remained closed to the Jaffna farmers and businessmen due to the closure of A-9, considered as the main land based link between Jaffna and the rest of the country. The new initiative is not only expected to deliver goods to Jaffna, but is also set to bring back the produce from Jaffna farmers and businessmen to Southern parts, expanding their market prospects. The convoy which left for Jaffna yesterday, included 13 containers, three freezer trucks and eight lorries. The goods included 100 MT of sugar, 100 MT of dhal, 65 MT of cooking oil, seven MT of fresh fruit etc. The convoy which left at 10 am was expected to reach its destination Kaithady in Jaffna later. Jaffna Government Agent, K. Ganesh is expected to receive the consignment with arrangements being made for the goods to be transferred from the Kaithady warehouse to stores in Kandavil, and to be distributed from there. According to Commissioner General of Essential Services S.B. Divarathne two such convoys are to be sent to Jaffna every week. Earlier in the month the first military convoy took the A-9 after a lapse of 24 years. Even though the A-9 was open for a brief period from 2002-2006 during the Ceasefire agreement, the LTTE used it as an opportunity to extort millions of rupees from those who used the road. January 19, 1985: LTTE terrorists blast, the Yaldevi passenger train and rail track in Murukkandi, Kilinochchi. Military transport using the full length of A-9 is hampered to a great extent. February 17, 2002: The A-9 from Omanthai to Kilinochchi reopened as a result of the Ceasefire Agreement. April 8, 2002: The entire Jaffna-Kandy A-9 road reopened. The LTTE uses the opportunity to extort money from civilians, who use A-9, in sections of the road which they control. October 11, 2006: Muhumalai entry\exit point closed as the Government withdrew from the CFA. January 9, 2009: After taking full control of the strategically important Elephant Pass, troops once again regain full control of the main land based link between Jaffna peninsula and the South. March 2, 2009: The official use of the Jaffna-Kandy, A-9 road takes place, with military convoys using the road to transport military personnel on leave back and forth. March 9, 2009 : The first organised convoy carrying essential supply's to Jaffna from Colombo takes the A-9, after a lapse of more than two decades.



