A study in Pique and shamelessness

General Sarath Fonseka has every right to come forward to contest the Presidential Election, subject to any legal issues. That said, there are four aspects of his entry into the fray, and his election campaign that to my mind besmirches his current crusade. These, I set down briefly.

First, one can question his Motives in coming forward against the President. From his own mouth so to say, it has become clear that it is SPITE and PIQUE that was the driving force behind his decision, nothing less. He set down a litany of woes which he personally suffered, allegedly due to Presidential bad faith.

He was retired before his time, he was not given the perks he was entitled to while the other Service Commanders got theirs, he was not trusted etc etc, were some of his complaints. He also had sundry complaints against his immediate boss, the Defence Secretary.

None of these reasons originally given by him has any National Dimension as the motive for contest, Personal loss, disappointment, grudge is his spur.

Somewhat lacking in candour as well as gratitude, no reference was made by him on and after his entry, to the benefits we are told he received at the hands of the President and the D/Sec, save a brief, almost grudging thanks to the President.

Whether Fonseka's allegations are true or not is not the issue I make here but the view that what motivated him to contest were not National or Patriotic Concerns, but purely Personal Concerns. Pride and Prejudice perhaps, but certainly SPITE and PIQUE, specially Pique.

Second, his very noticeable trait of claiming that victory over the LTTE was entirely, or almost entirely due to his efforts and none else.

A kind of "I Specialist" as said, casting a Nelsonian eye on the huge, the decisive portion done by the President, and the rest, apart from him, by the Defence Secretary the other Service Commanders, the Civil Defence Leaders and the Servicemen and women, not to mention the families of these people.

Fonseka's contribution itself was huge, brilliant and well planned, and the campaign brilliantly executed by his Brigade and Group Commanders. But he gives little or no credit to the huge, even decisive and pivotal role played by the Navy and Air Force, their Commanders and sailors and Airmen.

Soon after the Nandikadal victory, TV interviewed each of the three Commanders of the Army, Navy and Air Force. Fonseka rightly referred to his role but it appeared that the victory was due entirely to him.

No credit or reference was made to the Navy's blasting of 8 LTTE arms ships (floating arsenals really), or the Air Forces's role in that, and its pin point bombings of "identified targets" during Fonseka's campaign. Some cosmetic reference was made to the President's efforts, that's all.

Fonseka must realise that had those 8 ships got through, as many others did earlier under the UNP's treacherous "blind eye" policy, victory may not have been assured.

The third aspect is, to my mind, the most devilish, and also incidentally, probative of the motive behind Fonseka contesting his former Commander in Chief for the Presidency, namely pique and spite.

It is the Identity of the forces, or rather some of the political forces he has ganged up with, as their common candidate. When sometime back someone told me that Fonseka was to come as the candidate of the UNP (UNF) I promptly replied "rubbish", and that it was an impossible alliance.

Joining his persistent detractors of the war, those who insulted him as none else had done, ("Not fit to lead even the Salvation Army" by Mangala Samaraweera who now thinks that despite that incompetence, Fonseka can lead the country! "Any fool can fight a war" by Kiriella who now thinks any fool like Fonseka can also lead the country; Fonseka's Army is advancing not to Alimankade but to Pamankade, not to Kilinochchi but to Medawachchi by Ravi Karunanayake who now thinks Fonseka has got him sense of Direction corrected towards "Temple Trees", and the capture by Fonseka of a useless Rock, Thoppigala by Mr. Ranil W, who now thinks he must capture the Presidency instead joining those who ridiculed him, and now rationalising that he has forgiven them their Tresspasses, and contrastingly not forgiving the President and the Defence Sec who both stood by him firmly against an array of hostile forces both internal and foreign, for alleged wrongs, indicates not mere ingratitude but a total lack of scruples in a spiteful and indecent quest for revenge and power. Fonseka's Faustian Alliance!

A final and rather humorous aspect of Fonseka's campaign is the plethora of election promises he is spraying on the electorate. It's easy of course to do so, and many or all do it. But he is hitting the ceiling and the sky seems to be the limit! One must admire the moderation perhaps in his promise of a Rs. 10,000 to Public Servants & Estate Employees, why he did not promise a Rs 20,000 raise is a wonder, seeing that it's easy to do so, fighting an almost impossible battle! So go for it, sure!

Promising Paradise from the Opposition barricades, totally ignoring Reality and practical possibilities is one thing, fulfilling them is another. In that context, President Mahinda Rajapaksa needs to be more circumspect too, and that accounts perhaps for the comparatively lesser Paradise he promises the electorate.

In all this what angers one, the impartial and balanced individuals is that the enormity of the total eradication of LTTE terror that we were vulnerable to these past years, by this Govt led by the President against all terrific odds, the Relief we have in being assured of safety from a lurking suicide bomber dealing sudden death on our people, the Relief we have now from the silence mostly, of wailing sirens of ambulances speeding mangled bodies to hospitals to try and save their lives etc is totally and ungratefully forgotten, ignored, and only or mainly the downside of the Govt's actions (there are many admittedly) is stressed.

Yes, "the evil that men do, (certainly) lives after them, the good is oft interred with their bones". This has been proved by the UNP and its supporters regarding eliminating the LTTE. For me that's "Paradise now," largely.





