On the voter and 'the morning after'

Presidential elections are not like parliamentary elections, provincial council elections or local government elections. In these other (and lesser) elections, candidates can legitimately dream of consolation prizes.

If they don't win but their party wins, they can hope for deaths and other disqualifications that would push them up the preferential list and into the particular political body.

If their party loses, they can still be in the opposition provided they poll enough preferential votes, and if they haven't they can also wait for elected members of their party to die. There is reason for hope. Not so in the case of presidential elections, where there is just one winner and a bunch of losers.

Yesterday I wrote about the voter's moment of glory, the moment in which he/she is relevant. Today, let us accept that we, as voters, are past-tense as far as the winner is concerned.

Sure, those who voted for the loser can pretend they voted for the winner (provided they didn't make a song and dance about supporting one of the candidates who lost), but that's not going to make them any more relevant than anyone else. Presidential Elections are winner-take-it-all affairs. Well, let me qualify it a bit: 'winner plus his most loyal backers'.

The voter's moment of glory. AFP

Where can the voter do? Well, since there is one winner and a bunch of losers, the voters can be divided into two categories: those who are thrilled that the man they voted for won and those who voted for a loser.

Today, some will celebrate and others will be a bit down in the mouth, naturally. Life goes on, though, and in the 'going-on life' we don't suddenly acquire wings because we got a buoyant-moment and neither are we crippled because the majority backed someone else. One thing remains: responsibility.

The candidate we backed may have won. This doesn't mean our civic duty has ended. Politics doesn't begin with the announcement of an election and does not end the moment resulted are released, I pointed out yesterday. Not even if 'the other guy' won. If we championed a cause and saw candidate as the best articulator of that cause, his failure does not necessarily kill the political project which persuaded us to vote for him.

What has happened, then, is that one particular (and admittedly powerful) device available to us to achieve that objective eluded us. There are other ways and a determined and righteous individual will not give up and indeed should not for that is the essence of democracy.

What about the winner? Do they now defer to the elected, sit back and relax? As I said, the voters' relevance declines with every minute after the results are released and continue to do so until the next major election is called.

We elect after all an all-powerful executive president compared to whose powers we are pretty hapless creatures. On the other hand even the most powerful are prone to the constraints of the eternal verities of birth, decay and death. Their suns rise and they inevitably fall as well.

There are little things we can do, not out of spite, but out of a sense of responsibility. Our work was not over yesterday. Our work, one can argue, actually begins today anew. 'Civic duty' doesn't go to sleep. It cannot go to sleep, cannot retire (like Dayananda Dissanayake can't retire, courtesy Sarath N Silva).

There is a cardinal rule pertaining to citizenship that we tend to ignore: praise where praise is deserved, criticize constructively when criticism is required. If we choose to be lazy as citizens, we lose the right to complain.

We are loath to praise someone we did not vote for because party colour is more important to us than nation. We love to look the other way when our hero slips because, again, party colour is more important than nation. In both instances we hurt ourselves, we rob meaning from that term 'citizenship'. In short we incapacitate ourselves.

Let's get serious now. One of two things would have happened: either your guy won or he lost. If you were truly passionate about the candidate you voted for, the agenda that he championed etc., and he won, then you have to support him more by being vigilant about him straying from his manifesto than cheering him at every turn.

If 'the other guy' won, should the option be to go to sleep until the next election comes around? No, not in a decent democracy. The responsibility is to support the nation (not the elected) by being informed, leaving behind party colour, cheering that which deserves cheer and objecting to that which needs to be objected.

Through it all, if the elected charts a path that is ideologically antithetical to the pathways that we prefer in terms of the Utopias that inspire us, then it is imperative that we fight on, democratically, to win others over to our cause.

There is one voter who is different from both groups described above: the man who is elected. He has the most difficult task, that of recognizing his mortality, that of remembering that even of almost half the electorate voted for someone else, each and every one of them is a citizen and that as President he has to represent and be mindful of the concerns of each one of them, for he is the President of Sri Lanka and not a political party or a constituency.

Let him try to deliver the promises of his manifesto by all means, but let him not be arrogant in his moment of triumph and afterwards. Let him pick his team, but let him not punish those who worked for his opponent(s). Let him have the wisdom to mobilize all resources at his disposal, especially human resources regardless of party colour.

I have no illusions about politicians, let me add. Hastily. This is why I defer to the voter, my fellow-citizen whatever his/her party colour. Let us be vigilant. That's the minimum we can give for the privilege of being citizens in this beautiful country called Sri Lanka.





