Reborn Challenge Cup quarter finalists found

BERNARD PERERA

De Mazenod College Kandana the runners to Zahira College last year once again made their way to the quarter final yesterday beating Holy Cross College, Kalutara three goals to nil at Sugathadasa stadium. This was the second game played yesterday for the Reborn Challenge Cup Invitation Schools Soccer championship organised by Hameed Al Husseine 80 Group for the second successive year which also mark the schools 125th anniversary.

P. A. D. S. Madushanka put the Kandana school in to the lead in the eleventh minute. Mazenodians were in full control of the first session and went out for lemons with this lead 1-0. Though they were in control M. Y. G. Maris did not want to maintain discipline and was found guilty on two occasions and referee pulled out the red card in the 21st minute.

Mazenodian minus a player for almost 55 minutes did not allow their opponents to take the advantage and played well during the balance period. M. D. H. de Mel struck the second goal for Mazenodians in the 51st minute. Madushanka made it three nil in the 71st minute to see the Kandana team enter the quarters with a comfortable win.

The first game of the day saw St. Benedict's College come out as victors overcoming Hindu College three goals to nil. For winners D. Victor Jerome Grero and T. Rahuman scored.

Fazal sets new record

Mohamed Fazal of Zahira College playing for last year's champions set a new record scoring nine goals against St. Thomas' College, Matara in their match for the Reborn Challenge Cup Invitation Schools soccer championship on Saturday, the opening day of the championship at the Sugathadasa Stadium.

Mohamed Fazal a member of the under-19 schools team that toured China recently and represents Renown SC in the Dialog Premier League has entered the record books as the highest goal getter in a single game. None have achieved this feat any tournament in Sri Lanka Fazal also scored six goals playing in few games in the Premier League.

Isipatana College created the major upset on Saturday when they outplayed a favourite team to enter the quarter Hameed Al Husseine two goals to one.

N. Priyankara scored both goals for winner while M. Rahaman scored the solitary goal for the losers.

De Mazenod College Kandana will take on Maris Stella College in the first quarter final at 3 p.m., while Isipatana College will confront Al Hilal College in the second game at 5 p.m. at Sugathadasa Stadium today.





