Sri Lanka has full voting rights at UNHRC - Minister

Disaster Management and Human Rights Minister Mahinda Samarasinghe yesterday strongly denied the assertion as to Sri Lanka's alleged demotion in its status at the main global forum on human rights - the UN Human Rights Council.

Samarasinghe stated that Sri Lanka is not only a full member of the Council, with all voting rights, since the Council's inception in June 2006, but also holds one of the four Vice Presidencies of this prestigious Body.

He added that his visit to Geneva and his meetings with UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, Louise Arbour, has no connection whatsoever with Sri Lanka's membership of the Council; such membership can only be determined by member States of the UN Human Rights Council.

The Minister is to meet Arbour to continue the dialogue that was initiated between the Government and the High Commissioner's Office on possible cooperation between her office in Geneva and the Government following Arbour's visit to the country in October 2007.

The Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka, which had its accreditation reviewed in October 2007 was subsequently accorded 'B' status by the International Coordinating Committee (ICC) in Geneva. The ICC is an independent gathering of national human rights institutions which monitors and regulates such institutions worldwide.

Samarasinghe reiterated that there is no connection between the status accorded by the ICC to Sri Lanka's Human Rights Commission and Sri Lanka's status at the UN Human Rights Council.

The Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka is a body constitutionally and statutorily guaranteed functional independence from the Government.

Any assertion to the effect that there is a connection between the Commission's accredited status and the ability of the Government to represent Sri Lanka at the UN Human Rights Council is factually incorrect.

Furthermore, the review and accreditation of the Sri Lankan Human Rights Commission by the ICC is purely a matter for those institutions. A member of the Sri Lankan Government has no role to play in such decision making processes.

Minister Samarasinghe will not be making any interventions on behalf of the Sri Lankan Human Rights Commission as accreditation is a matter solely for the Commission.





