Online edition of Daily News - Lakehouse NewspapersAs there's an incredible demand from Sri Lankan students to study in Singapore based colleges and Universities during the last couple of years. Global Education Link from Singapore launched the Singapore Education Services (Pvt) Ltd. 

 G.E.L. General Manager Aravindan Regunathan exchanging the MoU with Singapore Education Services Administration Manager G. Chapman.

 Picture by Sudath Nishantha The main objective of the Singapore Education Services (Pvt) is to facilitate the students who are looking for their advanced studies in Singapore, General Manager G.E.L. Aravindan Regunathan said. "With the internet age and quick air links the World is getting closer and it is one reason for the Sri Lankan students choosing to study in Singapore. "By choosing to study abroad in Singapore, international students have an opportunity to not only be plugged into an education system that promotes excellence, but also be a part of a global community. As English is widely used, students will never feel out of place while experiencing the local culture," Regunathan added. "We are catering O/L students for Diploma programs and A/L students for the Degree programs." The Government of Singapore is inviting students with different cultural origins of other countries to study in Singapore." Over the last four years, GEL has organized overseas educational visits for more than 500 schools across Asia mainly from India, China, Vietnam and Indonesia to attract students to study in Singapore. As we saw the potential we decided to focus on Sri Lanka as well. These visits were productive as many students of different countries are now in Singapore to undergo programs of different magnitude, for industry visits and also to take up short courses. G.E.L is registered under the Ministry of Tourism Board Singapore and is a part of the Ministry of Education Singapore. There are list of Universities which has affiliated to the Singapore Institute Of Management University, the National Universities of Singapore, the Nan Yang Technological University, the Singapore Management University, MDIS University, Schools, Educational institutes, and training providers facilitate a wide variety of options for exchange programs, immersion programs and training courses for the clients. G.E.L. General Manager Aravindan Regunathan and Singapore Education Services Manager - Administration G. Chapman in the exchanging after signing the MoU of the joint partnership.



