Online edition of Daily News - Lakehouse NewspapersThe Board of Investment of Sri Lanka (BOI) has granted investment approval to Aus Agri (Pvt) Ltd, for a pioneering project to manufacture animal feed using leaves and green stem of the Gliricidia plant, which will supplement the income of rural outgrowers.

Sheila Baxter Training Centre (Pvt) Ltd Director Maxwel Mervyn and BOI Chairman/Director General Dhammika Perera signed the agreements.

The US $ 250,000 project is sponsored by Australian based Aus Agri (Pvt) Ltd. This is the first time that Gliricidia plants are used to produce processed animal feed.

The company will set up its first manufacturing plant in Mahailuppallama, Anuradhapura and will also set up another plant in Puttalam later.

Commercial operations of the plant at Mahailuppallama will commence later this month.

Directors of Aus Agri Ltd, Robert Irwin and Chamara Perera signed the agreement on behalf of the company.

Perera said the animal feed produced will be exported to markets in the Middle East.

The company expects to produce 100 tons of animal feed weekly which will be increased up to 400 tons.

Gliricidia is a medium size tree that typically grows to 10 m in height, with a broad canopy.

Initially Aus Agri will collect the Gliricidia from outgrow farmers in the area, providing them with an additional income. The company will provide encouragement and support to develop the outgrower system.

The company expects to have an outgrower farmer base of 50,000, which will help develop the rural economy.

The venture also expects to grow Gliricidia in 3,200 acres in the second phase of the project to complement the outgrower system.

Aus Agri will also purchase cassava (mannoc) and maize from local farmers as well as buying rice polish which is a little used by-product of the rice milling process.

The BOI also granted approval to Sheila Baxter Training Centre (Pvt) Ltd., to commence a training institute for skills development.

The US$ 500,000 project is sponsored by the Australian based institute of the same name. Director of Sheila Baxter Maxwel Mervyn said that the centre will provide training for skills development, which will aid students hoping to migrate to Australia.

The institute will provide training in Hair Dressing, English, Accounting and IT for 1,000 students annually.

The institute will set up its first centre in Colombo and hopes to set up more centres in Kandy, Galle, Nuwara Eliya and Kurunegala.

The institute will create 50 new employment opportunities which include a panel of 20 training staff, said Mervyn.



