Opposition hand behind polls violence

Lakshmi de Silva

JNP Leader Wimal Weerawansa yesterday revealed that NDF Presidential candidate Sarath Fonseka and his campaign team are orchestrating violence to attack their own meetings or supporters and blame the UPFA and President Mahinda Rajapaksa for election related violence.

Weerawansa said they had information that there were a number of Army deserters and retired Army men and other political elements who were used to create incidents of violence so that Fonseka could say all these illegal and criminal acts were committed by the supporters of President Rajapaksa.

Weerawansa said they had information that Fonseka and his campaign partners were fully aware that President Mahinda Rajapaksa would win the January 26 presidential poll with a resounding majority.

Therefore, they were also planning to blame President Mahinda Rajapaksa for the violence they themselves were creating to claim that violence was used to win the election.

We also have information that Sarath Fonseka will be addressing election rallies seated in his bullet proof vehicle alleging that his life was in danger.

Answering questions Weerawansa said the last trump of Sarath Fonseka is to deceive the voters was to deny that there was a pact with Tamil National Alliance leader R. Sampanthan but anyone could guess that the TNA, proxies of the LTTE would not support a former Army Commander who defeated their leader Prabhakaran in the battlefield.

Evidently Sampanthan was not supporting Fonseka out of philanthropy but was with a selfish motive of gaining some political advantage.

Probably Sampanthan wanted to take revenge on President Mahinda Rajapaksa for defeating the LTTE and killing his boss Prabhakaran using Sarath Fonseka to do it.

Answering a question about the alleged arms purchases from Sarath Fonseka's son-in-law's company Weerawansa said though Fonseka could be questioned or even arrested the Presidential Election time was a very sensitive period and legal steps were being pursued but cautiously.





