Telcos must share networks

Harshini Perera

The telecommunication industry in Sri Lanka has become very profitable during the early stages of its history but it has shown a slow down Sierra Global Network, Director/CEO, Dr. Arosha Fernando said. Fernando was interviewed for Daily News Business

Q: How will you make available your services to the newly liberated areas?

A: Sierra Global Network is the telecommunication services arm of the Sierra group. We have been operating in Jaffna for the last 20 years where we had a permanent office. After the liberation of the Eastern province the telecommunication operators wanted to set their operations in those areas.

Therefore, Sierra Global Network has assisted them with the services. At present we work with Hutch, Airtel and other operations in the Eastern province. We have completed over 25 base stations in the North for Mobitel.

We have engaged in the expansion work for Sri Lanka Telecom and signed up an agreement with LankaBell to construct three towers commencing from the last week. At present we are negotiating with Suntel and few other operators for their future expansions in the Northern and Eastern areas.

Q: What can you say about the market in the North and Eastern areas?

A: The market in those areas will not be easy for the telecommunication operators to penetrate as the infrastructure facilities in those areas are not developed properly. It will take a considerable time to the areas to be normal as any other area.

The Sierra company has constructed the Jaffna Court Complex, Jaffna Technical College and number of other buildings. We need to be committed and take up challenges to which my staff is always lined with.

Q: How can you place the telecommunication industry in Sri Lanka among the other countries in the region?

A: Though the Sri Lankan market used to be profitable at the early stage, due to the competition, especially cut-throat competition, all the operators are suffering. Every operator is trying to find new ways to promote their products and services. Sri Lanka was one among the few countries in South Asian region to adopt new applications to the industry. Sri Lanka adopted the new technologies such as 3 G and LTU or 4G. The operators should look into ways and means to reduce the cost and to be innovative. Sierra as a strategic partner has assisted them to achieve the objectives.

A: A comparative drop has been resulted in the growth due to the world economic condition. It is expected to pick up again with new technologies.

We were the first few companies to adopt technology as well as training according to the technology. Sierra adopted a training on CDMA technology even before the technology hit Sri Lanka.

The majority of telecommunication sites have been implemented in the country by our company such as the SLT, LankaBell, Suntel, Dialog Broadband and Tritel.

In the same way the newest technology will be adopted by our company and we anticipate being the for runner in adopting technology.

Q: What are the strategies taken by you to improve the quality of services?

A: Every year, we recruit about 40 new trainees' straight from the Universities, technical colleges and institutes. We have been doing this for the last six years. We mix them up with the experts in the company to make the best combination. We have the most talented experts in the construction field.

Q: How should the telecommunication industry overcome present challenges?

A: I think better cooperation between the telecommunication operators is important rather than continuing to build their own networks. They should seriously look into the shared network with each other operators.

Q: What are your future plans?

A: Our plan is to be a strategic partner to all the operators that take off most of their headaches. We will be expanding our services to the other countries in the future. We have already completed few targets in Africa. Hence, we will soon look into the African market in the future.

Q: What is your advice to young people to climb the corporate ladder?

A: One should be honest and give the fullest commitment to the duty. He/she should have the ability to take up challenges.

Q: What is the country you wish to visit overseas?

A: South America and South Africa

Q: What is the place you like to visit in Sri Lanka?

A: Nuwara Eliya

Q: How do you spend your leisure?

A: I engage in swimming during my leisure

Q: What is your philosophy in life?

A: To be honest to yourself and have a vision and a dream. The other ingredients will follow if you have these two.





