Business Advertorial

Harnessed to provide value-added information:

Lanka Bell takes infotainment to new heights with BMS and FMS

CDMA technology, with which pioneer operator Lanka Bell made over-the-counter 'fixed line' connections possible in Sri Lanka, is now being harnessed to provide value-added information services to business and residential users.

From exchange rates and local and international news to horoscopes and the latest Hollywood and Bollywood gossip, Lanka Bell users now have access to real time business and fun information via SMS on their CDMA phones, with the launch of BMS (Business Message Service) and FMS (Fun Message Service).

Key words sent to 1588 from any Lanka Bell CDMA phone open up an amazing array of information that is transmitted to the phone within seconds, adding value to what was originally a simple phone connection.

For those using BMS, on offer are updates on local news, international news, exchange rates, Sri Lankan flight information, business news, financial news and the weather.

FMS users may choose from cricket scores, sports news, horoscopes, jokes, news and gossip from Bollywood and Hollywood including the top 10 movies, reviews, the top 10 songs in Hollywood and Bollywood, the top 10 songs on the Sinhala charts, useful tips and quotes.

"Lanka Bell phones are no longer just a utility. These value-added services make them amazingly versatile, and a great source of entertainment."

Earlier this year, Lanka Bell became the first 'fixed-line' telecommunications company in Sri Lanka to offer voice-based short messaging with the launch of 'Bell Voice SMS' a unique new fun service that enables owners of Lanka Bell CDMA phones to record send voice messages to any network, fixed or mobile, for the first time in Sri Lanka.

BOI promotes development of 'Knowledge City' at Henagama

The Board of Investment of Sri Lanka, has sought in recent years to attract projects dealing with education. These are urgently needed, as education should reach all parts of the country.

One of the most recent projects will be a new Knowledge City at Henagama that will be built on a land of 122 acres.

This new institute will be equipped with the latest facilities and services. The institute will focus on teaching information technology and other knowledge based education.

The Board of Investment of Sri Lanka (BOI) will develop a Knowledge City with all modern facilities and services. The Educational Institute will have distinctive focus on Information Technology and other knowledge based education. BOI plans to develop this Education Institute as a Public Private Partnership (PPP) enterprise.

The key objective of this planned institute will be to cater to the growing demand in Sri Lanka for world-class educational infrastructure.

The institute will impart education in fields such as information technology, management and engineering.

In addition, the institute will provide opportunities and facilities for carrying out cutting edge research and development activities. Infrastructure facilities such as uninterrupted power, water supply, conference facility and parking facility will be available at the institute.

Hostel facilities for students alongside residential accommodation for faculty and other staff would also be provided within the institute. The BOI intends to cater for the growing demand in the country for high quality education. This will be achieved by attracting a world-class educational institute.

CCS teams with Triad as communications partner

Ceylon Cold Sto- res (CCS), has teamed with Triad in a bid to take the Elephant House legacy to unprecedented spheres.

With a host of popular brands - Cream Soda, EGB, Necto, Soda, Orange Barley and Orange Crush - that appeal to a diverse cross-section of consumers, Elephant Soft Drinks and dominant beverage brand that has been a household name for almost a century, now looks to further dominate the Sri Lankan beverage market through the development of aggressive, innovative marketing and communication strategies.

In strengthening its dominance and to take the brand to newer heights, Elephant soft drinks will continue to pitch itself squarely against multinational beverage brands. In gathering its resources to do so, CCS has chosen to partner with Triad, which is Sri Lanka's truly local agency.

Referring to this new alliance Vice President and Head of Beverages of CCS Srikanth Selladurai noted: "our choice of Triad as a communications partner stems from a number of compelling reasons. They have an unmatched record in establishing and growing local brands, confidently pitching them against multinational giants.

This is a direct result of their ability to tap into and understand the local consumer sentiment and psyche. Then of course, we have in the past, seen their commitment and drive to work with one vision and their ability to give true meaning to team work."

Joint Managing Director of Triad, Dilith Jayaweera commented: "At Triad we see this partnership as one of the most compatible brand fits that an agency can achieve with a client - we are one in spirit and in our ultimate goal - we both want to prove that "Sri Lanka can!", and as such we are very confident of making Elephant soft drinks a case study, both in the Sri Lankan and global beverage marketing scenario."

The other Managing Director of the company Varuni Amunugama Fernando said, "winning the Elephant soft drinks pitch was a dream come true for this maverick advertising company, with a 'never say die' attitude.

The Triad team looks at this achievement of the new year with excitement and enthusiasm, believing the year 2008 to be a milestone for the company as we celebrate 15 years of passion and teamwork that has successfully chartered a new course and culture in the local advertising industry."

Bags highest number of accolades:

Leo Burnett scores big in TV category at Reggies 2007

Leo Burnett Solutions Inc. (LBSI), the local office of Leo Burnett Worldwide, recently maintained its position as Sri Lanka's most creative agency, by winning a grand total of 14 awards at the 2007 Reggie Candappa Craft Awards - the Reggies.

LBSI walked away with the highest number of accolades for the night, once again topping the table, and concluding the year as Sri Lanka's most awarded agency.

Of special significance was LBSI's receipt of three of the most coveted awards for the night which included the Best Concept in TV for Stage Light and Magic's Noir Theatre festival for the commercial created by Creative Director Anusha Wijeyaratne, Best Cinematography for Mobitel's "New Teacher" commercial, focusing on Mobitel's coverage which was conceptualised and directed by LBSI's Subash Pinnapola, Creative Director.

LBSI was also awarded "Best Logo design" for their in-house identity, the interpretation of the network's global mantra "Reaching for the stars".

These awards were of even greater significance as they signalled the agency's continuing strength in creativity, especially in the TV medium.

The agency has received many awards in the past for its work in TV, including the only TV Gold for two consecutive years at the Sri Lankan Advertising Awards - the Chillies - in 2006 and 2007.

Chamber of Construction Industry Sri Lanka which pioneered the promotion of export of construction related professional services and construction capacities is now inviting vendors of furniture and fittings and accessories and landscape architects to join its second trade mission from February 8 to 14 in Qatar.

This invitation is extended in view of the heavy demand for such goods and services that has been identified consequent to a needs assessment carried out by the Chamber.

All reputed manufacturers and vendors of furniture, joinery and accessories are invited to express their interest to be considered for inclusion in the Trade Mission.





