Asiri Group of Hospitals recently renewed contract with Suntel Ltd., as their telecommunication partner for better service.

Reiterating Suntel commitment for continued enhancement Director Sales and Marketing, Suntel Ltd Hasitha Abeywardane said, "the communication solution powered by Suntel on behalf of Asiri Group of Hospitals is yet another demonstration of our commitment to provide customised solutions to empower our corporate clientele by delivering solutions which meets their specific needs and demands both contemporary and futuristic to serve our clientele".

Under the new agreement Suntel Ltd., will facilitate upgrading of the communication infrastructure of Asiri Group of Hospitals with an advance communication system which is scalable, highly reliable, secure and integrate all the three hospital facilities under the Asiri Group to form one communication network.

The communication solution provided by Suntel will enable Asiri to attune itself to adjust to all new developments in the communication technology whilst concentrating on their core business.

Chief Operating Officer, Asiri Group of Hospitals Manjula Karunaratne said, "it is with great confidence that we have entrusted Suntel Ltd., with the upgrading of our communication solution as they have proved themselves as a viable partner who has a vested interest in our business growth and has the necessary expertise to support and service our communication needs"

In provision of telecom solutions comprising of voice, data, internet services and virtual private networks, Suntel is constantly engaged in a process of continuous assessment of evolving needs of its corporate clients which allows them to provide seamless enhancements to communication solutions in constant consonance with ever evolving technology.

Asiri Group of Hospitals has positioned itself as a premier health care service facility in Sri Lanka. Over the past decade it has quietly but firmly established its brand as an entity "dedicated to serve with Compassion".

Pre Paid users that are equipped with Mobitel SMART connections are automatically eligible for a loyalty programme called 'SMART Bonus.' This youthful and dynamic product is yet another customer centric innovation from Mobitel.

CEO, Sri Lanka Telecom Mobitel Suren J Amarasekera said, "We are proud to have launched the first and only loyalty programme for the Pre Paid segment through SMART.

This has created waves across the Pre Paid segment in Sri Lanka by offering value that is unmatched by our competitors. With the launch of SMART Bonus, it will continue the legacy of SMART, offering greater rewards and creating excitement among the SMART community.

SMART Bonus is a hassle free programme with a multitude of benefits where SMART users are eligible for rewards, which are granted every 30 days. We are delighted to begin the awarding of the first set of bonuses on January 1, 2008. SMART users have a prosperous start to their year", he said.

The features of SMART Bonus are that every new SMART user will be enrolled into the programme automatically with rewards based on SMART Bonus points.

These include Rs 1 spent on making or receiving local or IDD calls equal to one SMART Bonus Point, with the exclusion of taxes and levies as well as HOT IDD usage.

If SMART Bonus points without taxes and levies accumulated after every 30 days are 200 points or above, customers are entitled to 20 free M2M SMS and 10 free M2M minutes for five days.

If a customer has a total accumulation of 1000 points or above, he or she will be entitled to 40 free M2M SMS and 20 free M2M minutes for 10 days. An accumulation of 2000 points or above results in 80 free M2M SMS and 40 free M2M minutes for 15 days. All Mobitel customers can check their SMART Bonus Points by dialing *150# on their SMART connection.

In addition to this, every SMART user who accumulates 600 SMART Bonus points within six months will get a chance to win fabulous prizes through a lucky draw and those with an accumulation of over 60,000 points in six months will be offered priority services at Mobitel outlets as well as invitations to special events on a first come first serve basis.

#############################

Dialog facilitates Mahawewa Sivraja deaf and blind school

It was a memorable day for the kids of the Mahawewa Sivraja deaf and blind school when they received new computers, music instruments and a newly refurbished hostel from the Change Trust - the CSR project of the Dialog Telekom.

The deaf and blind school, a personal donation of the renowned artist Solius Mendis in 1958, housed some 130 physically challenged kids and is manages by the All Ceylon Buddhist Congress.

Their hostel was refurbished and colour-washed through a shramadana by the staff of the Change Trust. The new computers and music instruments were handed over to the Principal Niranjalee Wickramanayake by Manager Dialog Telekom Nirosha Dissanayake.

"We receive government grants only for staff salaries. We have to seek assistance from donors and well-wishers for the maintenance and other work of the institution," said Wickramanayake.

Dialog Telekom responded to our plea within a very short period. "The Dialog Telekom staff was extremely kind enough to conduct a shramadana campaign and fulfil a major requirement of the school," she said.

The donation of computers and music instruments is a great help to develop the skills of these needy kids, she added.

Manager Dialog Telekom Nirosha Dissanayake said that his company is geared to dedicate itself for the betterment of the physically challenged children and this program is one of many such projects.

"We will do our best to bring some light into their lives," he added.

############################

First ever competition held at Tigo zone

The newly launched Tigo Zone held its first gaming competition last week. Tigo Zone members participated in racing against each other playing Need for Speed : Most Wanted on Sony Playstation 2.

After the preliminary rounds there were 20 finalists who were qualified for the final round. After almost five hours of hard core racing of some of the most extravagant racing cars found in the world, Zahid Muhammed emerged the champion racer and won himself a brand new Nokia 6300 from Tigo. Vinod Kumara was the runner up.

"Through events like these we want to popularise the value added services that are being offered by Tigo which are mainly targeted at the young consumer" said Brand Manager VAS Channa Munasinghe,.

Video gaming is among the many activities at the new Tigo Zone offered free of charge to it's members.

"The purpose of Tigo Zone is to give the customers a different value added service experience. Tigo Zone is also the one-stop-shop for all Tigo value added services" said Manager VAS Chamila Fernando.

At the Tigo Zone you can now enjoy the hottest new movies, challenge your friends to a PlayStation duel, listen to your favorite music tracks or kick back and surf the web with your friends.

Members can choose from a wide range of movies and games available at the Tigo Zone or they can bring their own.





