



Lankan forgers linked to card scam in UK

Dozens of people in Hemel Hempstead, UK have fallen victim to card cloning fraud at petrol stations in a scam worth thousands of pounds.

Motorists filling up at filling stations in the town have then discovered that their cards have been used to withdraw thousands of pounds at cash points in the Far East.

Despite the introduction of chip and pin technology fraudsters have found ways to record card details, which are then used to create duplicate cards which can be used in countries with less transaction security.

Dozens of residents have made complaints about three filling stations in the town but police investigations have homed in on the Jet station in Queensway.

Police have confirmed they are investigating the petrol station after receiving around 28 complaints but said they were getting full cooperation.

"There's no suspicion whatsoever that the management was involved in it at all, or that it will continue," said spokesman Colin Connolly.

Brenda Welman, from Hemel Hempstead, last filled up at Jet on December 13 and discovered in the New Year that pounds 700 had been withdrawn from her account by fraudsters in China.

She said: "I always thought you were safer paying by card than carrying cash around."

Bryan Redman, from Hemel Hempstead, had pounds 75 taken from his account by fraudsters using an ATM in Thailand.

Brenda Styles, from Gadebridge, used the filling station regularly and discovered on New Year's Eve that fraudsters in Thailand and Sri Lanka had taken pounds 470 from her account.

Other attempts to withdraw money from accounts have been stopped by vigilant banks. Hemel Hempstead MP Mike Penning also became a victim of fraud when someone in China tried to withdraw cash from his account using his pin.

He said: "The police told me the person who was doing the cloning is long gone so I will continue to buy my petrol from Jet. It is important that we support local business."

Jet manager Raj Skandarasa said he was very upset at what was happening and that he contacted the police after his customers alerted him about their cards being cloned.

The frauds come in spite of a clampdown by banks and petrol stations, which last year joined forces to launch a campaign reminding people to guard their cards.

Nick Vandervell, a spokesman for UKPIA, the trade body which represents petrol stations, said: "It was my feeling that we pretty much got on top of this problem after the 'Guard Your Card' campaign at filling stations last year."

An APACS spokesman said: "Petrol stations have high payment turnovers, which could be particularly attractive to fraudsters."

During 2006 in the South East region pounds 180.2 million was lost in card frauds on UK-issued credit and debit cards. Hemel Gazette





