Schools invitation soccer begins

Bernard PERERA

The third annual Hameed Al Husseinie 80 Group organized All Island Invitation Schools Football tournament will get under way on January 16 at the Sugathadasa stadium with opening ceremony scheduled for 2 p.m.

Sixteen teams have been invited from various parts of the country, said the chairman of the organizing committee M.Z.M. Farook addressing a press briefing at the school auditorium on Tuesday.

Schools invitation Soccer tournament organizing Committee Chairman M.Z.M. Farook addressing the media at the briefing held at the Hameed Al Hussieni College Hall last Tuesday. Also in the picture are 80 Group President M.I.M. Ramza, General Manager Best Deal M.S.M. Rifam and 80 Group General Secretary H.A.M. Munawwar. Picture by A. Maduraweeran

He said that the tournament commenced in the year 2007 with the sole aim of promoting the sport as well as to promote fellowship among the players from their young age. The championship organized by school Hameed Al Husseinie 80 Group has received the praise from all quarters interested in the game of soccer said Farook. The School also has a proud record of producing many soccerites for the National team in the recent past.

This tournament also paves the way for these young soccerites to play at the international stadium which is one of the main objective of a young players. This tournament by giving this opportunity has given the young players be engaged in the sport for a longer period as this will give them chance to prove their abilities in front of a large crowd which will be of vital importance for them to get the entry to Club level.

He added that the teams from outstations will be provided with food and lodging until their team get knocked out from the tourney, in addition travelling too will be paid for the outstation teams, said Farook.

The winner will be awarded the Challenge Trophy, The Champions Trophy medals and certificates, while the first and second runners up too will be awarded with trophies, medals and certificates.

Zahira college Colombo defeated St. Benedict's College Colombo to win the Championship last year.

Best Deal a Company run by few Hameed Al Husseinie 80 Group which is based in Dubai is the main sponsor for the tournament while ten more co-sponsors have come forward to make this event a success.

Farook further added that next year the organizers hope to increase the number of teams and also to invite few International schools for tournament with a view to promote the game among the international schools.

As a start this year the organizers have invited Colombo International school and Lyceum international School to play an exhibition game on the final day January 24 prior to the final.





