Drive

Rs. 2.5m vehicle emission testing facility at Mag City

Mag City has invested Rs 2.5 million on a new facility for testing vehicle emission and repairing vehicles that need emission reduction.

At the new facility

Assistant General Manager of Mag City, Jagath Parakrama said that the Emission Testing Certificate will be compulsory when obtaining the revenue licence. It is important to test the emission levels of the vehicles and to ensure that the atmosphere is free from poisonous gases.

"With this new facility, vehicle owners now can test their vehicle emission levels and do the repairs for the vehicles to reduce the emission level. Though we do not issue the Emission Testing Certificate Mag City is undertaking vehicle repairs for reducing emissions", he said.

"There are certain designated centres to issue these Emission Testing Certificates for vehicles. Vehicles which designated disqualify from the tests from these centres could come to Mag City for repairs on reducing emissions of these vehicles," he said.

"We introduced this facility last year and there is a good response from the customers for this new service at Mag City. Most of the vehicle owners are keen on passing the vehicle emission test, he said. The new facility is also equipped with the latest technology and well trained staff, he said.

Maruti hikes prices of high-end products

India's largest passenger carmaker, Maruti Suzuki, has hiked prices of high-end products by Rs 5,000-10,000 from January 28, attributing it to higher input prices and foreign currency movement, which affects imported prices of components.

Hyundai will also announce 2% markups on its entire range next week. The company spokesman said that would work out to about Rs 5,000 on Santro and up to Rs 25,000 on Sonata.

The price of A Star hatchback, which was launched in November 2008, has been increased by Rs 10,000 while prices of all variants of SX4 Sedan have been hiked by Rs 9,000. The price of Swift Petrol LXi has been revised upwards by Rs 5,000. For the higher variants of Swift-VXi and ZXi-and all variants of its diesel version, the prices are now higher by Rs 6,000. The new prices for Swift DZire (all variants in petrol and diesel) are higher by Rs 7,000.

"The price increase has been necessitated due to the increase in input costs like steel and foreign currency changes. There has been regular fluctuations in currency, which has forced us to go for this increase," the company spokesperson said. The price of steel has gone up for carmakers as all major steel suppliers have increased their contract prices, even though metal prices have softened in the spot market over the recent past.





