Online edition of Daily News - Lakehouse NewspapersWe can reach World Cup, say confident Afghanistan Afghanistan's cricketers, who learnt the game as refugees and once converted downed military helicopters into changing rooms, believe destiny is on their side as they target the 2011 World Cup. The Afghan team booked their place in April's World Cup qualifying tournament in South Africa here on Saturday with an 82-run win over the Cayman Islands. The win put them top of the World League Division Three and ensured a third successive promotion, all achieved just eight years after being affiliated to the International Cricket Council. Afghanistan coach Kabir Khan claimed that there was no reason why his team cannot make it to the 2011 World Cup finals to be held in India, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka. "I'm personally quite confident and hopeful we can do it," said Kabir, a former Pakistan Test player. In April's qualifier, Afghanistan and Uganda, who finished second in Division Three, will join Kenya, Scotland, Netherlands, Canada, Ireland, Bermuda, UAE, Oman, Namibia and Denmark and battle for the four places available at the World Cup. A place in the top six will guarantee one-day international status for the next four years. "I'm very proud. It is the happiest day of my life and a golden day in the history of Afghanistan cricket. It is a great achievement and I can't believe the way the boys have done it," added Kabir. "I know quite a bit about some of the other teams (who will be in South Africa), but first we are going to enjoy our victory. "There will be lots of invites for players to events and lots of television interviews, but after that we are going to sit down and plan a training camp in either Pakistan or India." The qualifying tournament in South Africa runs from April 1-19. Afghanistan did it the hard way, however, after coming perilously close to losing to the Caymans on Friday before the match was abandoned because of rain. On Saturday, at the second time of asking, they were a team transformed, posting 230-8 in 50 overs with skipper Norooz Mangal leading the way with 70 and Asghar Stanikzai making 66 not out. The Cayman Islands were bowled out for 148 with Mohammad Nabi taking 4-23. "This is a very big day in the history of Afganistan cricket," said Norooz. "It will be very hard work in South Africa and we will be playing against some very difficult teams but I think if we all work very hard in the next few months we have a very good chance of making it to the World Cup." Afghanistan finished top of the six-nation group here with four wins in five matches. Uganda and Papua New Guinea also had four wins but PNG lost out on a place in South Africa due to an inferior run rate. Uganda finished their programme with a 99-run win over hosts Argentina. They struggled to 182 all out before Argentina were dismissed for a paltry 83 to slump to their fifth defeat. The Caymans and Argentina are both relegated to Division 4.



