A security culture in our society

Dr. Ruwantissa Abeyratne

Studies have shown that stringent measures, when adopted against a particular type of crime belonging to a generic group (such as hijacking in the spectrum of unlawful interference against civil aviation) would be effective enough to reduce that particular type of crime.

However, it might give rise to increase in other forms of crime belonging to that generic group. Called the spill over effect, this pattern has applied to civil aviation, as seen in the decrease in offences against aircraft after the events of 11 September 2001.

In order that basic strategies are employed for preventing crime and to combat crime when prevention is impossible, crime prevention strategies adopt two methods of combating crime.

The first method is to prevent or stop potential criminal acts. The second method is to apprehend and punish anyone who commits a criminal act. These methods follow the philosophy that the prevention of crime can be achieved by increasing the probability of apprehension and applying severe penal sanction to a crime.

Security measures must also be capable of being strengthened

For example, it was thought that installation of metal detectors at airports increases the probability of detecting and apprehending potential hijackers or saboteurs. This is all well and good except for the fact that we have to go a step further, and have the awareness that most explosives used are made of plastic and we should have means of detecting plastic explosives.

Theoretically the high risk of being apprehended decreases the potential threat and the stringent penal sanction that may apply consequent to such apprehension compound the ominous quality of the preventive means taken.

Intelligence gathering

The gathering of reliable intelligence remains the first line of defence. Although modern technologies clearly aid terrorists in terms of weapons and targets, technology can also be used against terrorists. Governments endowed with the necessary technology can keep track of terrorist organizations and their movements with the aid of computers.

At the same time, electronic collection methods and signals intelligence afford the possibility of eavesdropping on and intercepting terrorist communications, leading to better predictions of their operations. One of the instances where intelligence gathering has worked well to prevent terrorism occurred in September 1984, when the Provisional IRA spent an estimated œ1.5 million in the United States on a massive shipment of seven tons of arms.

With the help of an informer about a forthcoming shipment of weapons, including rockets, to the Provisional IRA from the United States, the FBI informed British intelligence, who in turn contacted the Irish, and the ship carrying the arms was tracked by a US satellite orbiting 300 kilometres above the earth. The satellite photographed the transfer of the arms to a trawler.

Finally, two Irish Navy vessels intercepted the trawler and British security forces arrested the crew. This incident shows that intelligence gathering with the help of high technology can cut off the transfer of missiles and other weapons to terrorists.

A risk based approach?

Traditionally, responses to terrorist acts which cause death and injury to persons and acute damage to property have been reactive rather than proactive. Aviation is a good example.

When terrorists attacked several aircraft on 11 September 2001, the security response was to secure the cockpit doors of aircraft and screen passengers prior to take off. Of course these are excellent measures to ward off similar attacks. But how far have we thought of new and emerging threats?

It is reported that Juval Aviv, an Israeli security expert has pointed out some example of reaction. Aviv has pointed out that after a person with criminal intent had tried to light his shoe on fire on board an aircraft now everyone has to take off their shoes at the security checkpoint before departure.

When a group of conspirators had tried to bring aboard liquid explosives, the reaction of the security community was to ban liquids on board aircraft. He says he is waiting for some suicidal maniac to pour liquid explosive on his underwear; at which point, security will have us all travelling naked!

A key principle towards more risk-based security is the idea that addressing all risks at the same level, regardless of their severity, is actually less efficient than concentrating the bigger part of one's resources on the most severe risks. Governments must carefully weigh the options, which present themselves to them, and make the right decisions.

The primary role of the authorities must be to centralise intelligence and threat information. Airlines are major interested parties and need to be informed in due time. Assessing and prioritising the different risks is a typical government duty.

A certain risk can be addressed or mitigated by a number of possible measures. Here the role of governments should be to assess which of these options will pose the lesser impact on industry and society. This impact can be operational as well as financial.

Security management systems provide an effective tool that would ensure a risk-based approach to security. Within a security risk management environment, consideration is given to threats that are often ill defined, constantly evolving and the result of deliberate and intentional actions.

In addition specific security threats must be considered unpredictable and likely to be indiscriminate in nature. For example while intelligence and law enforcement agencies involved in preventing terrorist activity may uncover information suggesting pending attacks, it is necessary and prudent to assume they may not be able to identify and stop all possible threats all of the time.

A prepared society

At the central focus of a security culture is society itself and its members must be made aware of the risks they face. Education is crucial, of the threats posed by abandoned suitcases, suspicious looking characters and crowded places such as hotels, supermarkets and airports.

For instance, the entrance to an airport and check in area are extremely attractive for terrorists and therefore pose a serious threat to society. Members of a vigilant society must know all the odds they face and be prepared, avoiding identified risk areas.

Aviv cites the example of citizens of Israel who are so well 'trained' that an unattended bag or package would be reported in seconds by citizens who know how to shout publicly, 'Unattended Bag.' The area will be quickly and calmly cleared by the citizens themselves.

Security measures must also be capable of being strengthened quickly at any time as a result of increased levels of security risk. In addition, by virtue of their nature, they are usually highly visible and intrusive and may often conflict with the facilitation measures and needs that require ready access to facilities and services to expedite the functions of a society.

This is not the case with the vast majority of controls in a safety environment.

These factors require recognition and assessment when specific preventative security controls and associated regulatory standards are considered and developed. Recognising these factors, the need exists for an integrated systems managed approach within various organisations, at both regulatory and industry level, that have responsibilities relating to the delivery of safety and security outcomes.

Such an approach has the ability to offer a range of benefits including: integration of existing organisational quality management systems into a comprehensive and aligned organisational structure and culture that ensures a more cohesive and standardized approach to how security processes should be implemented with overall better and more uniform standards of service delivery.

From what is going on around us in every corner of the world, we could deduce that this is as good a time as any to be prepared.





