Online edition of Daily News - Lakehouse NewspapersV3 were deciding of going going, What they were showing showing! "Hey guys, there's this really interesting drama called 'Boeing Boeing' which will go on boards at the Wendt" pipes Shaz at one of the V3 meet-ups over coffee and scrabble. Sachi, who's trying to scrabble his way to a Scrabulous win, asks "What sort of drama is that?" Shaz replies, "Oh it's totally cool because it is about a guy who juggles three relationships where his significant three-quarters are engaged to him!" Ruwi says, "Wow! I'd like to see that". Sachi perks his ears and widens his eyes and forgetting all about Scrabble exclaims, "Wow I'd like to be that!" Ruwi and Shaz giggle and wiggle and chorus, "Well, Sachi I'm sure you'd find it difficult to keep even one!" V3 attended the opening show on Friday that was directed by Neidra Williams and Jehan Bastians and produced by Miranga Ariyaratne which brought a massive crowd who were rather intrigued to know what kind of delicious dish was going to be served on this (ehem!) dramatic flight. 'Boeing Boeing' opens when suddenly the lights go off and 'Sin, Sin, Sinora' plays in the background (front ground rather because it's loud) and Gehan Blok the lead actor who plays Bernard the 'naughty boy', engaged to three different stewardesses, comes on stage. "Is he like that in real life?" whispers Sachi. "Of course not! Back to the show and we see Bernard coyly surrounding his American airline sweetheart Janet played by Keshiya Leitch at his prime residence in London town. So by the time we're bored with the flightful PDA, in comes Long (played by Charith de Sliva) not really strong and we don't know why 'Long'. Bernard enlightens Janet to say, "It was an old nickname we used to call him". Shaz giggles and says, "Yes, surely 'Long' in someplace private". More giggles and Neidra Williams who plays the affectionate and loyal housekeeper Bertha makes a grand entrance. The play describes the funny 'scheduled' relationship Bernard has with three beautiful stewardesses, the American cowgirl Janet whom Bernard likes in 'someplace private', a soft-spoken and sweet German (who likes her Frankfurters) and Jackeline (Celine Cramer) who is French. Bernard reveals to his 'Long' friend that all of his fianc's names beginning with the letter J and when they are in town, Bertha changes the photographs so that they wouldn't suspect anything. "Long, it's all about organization and the key to picking the right girlfriend on schedule as she gets off her flight and when the next one comes, all planned perfectly to detail" says Bernard. However, Long is rather skeptical which is good 'long-thinking' and tells his friend that it is impossible to manage things like that but try to find the best pick of the lot and make it work with her. "Bernard is really a rabbit if he wants to make many children with three fianc's!" says Ruwi. Shaz can't help laughing which draws some 'Shhh' from the crowd around V3. "I think he wants to have a good time - that's what guys do, don't they?" Sachi ponders. The drama initially becomes a whole circus with Bertha finding it difficult to keep the momentum and even talks to Long about it. Just like they both predicted, the whole thing blows in Bernard's face. "Naturally, even drama has the truth in it, you can't juggle three at once" says Sachi, now like Freud. "But it was nice knowing how to do it though" says Ruwi. After the drama unfolded, V3 were enthralled by the production. "It was really awesome right guys?" asks Shaz. "Yes, definitely a funny and interesting script. I enjoyed it more than going to the movies" replies Ruwi. "Very well done and it's really worth a laugh!" adds Sachi. "Yes, my favourite character was Jackeline, she's pretty and really nice in her French-English accent", said Ruwi. Suddenly Shaz remembers, "Hey I met Michelle Herft the last time I came to the Wendt, she's awesome and very helpful". Sachi asks "who's she?" Shaz replies, "The girl who plays Judith". Sachi notes, "Well, she's tall and beautiful." V3 agreed that Long, played by Charith was by far one of the most awesome characters but Shaz thought Gehan was good because he was good-looking. "Oops now don't let his girlfriend know, ok?" says Sachi with a wink. Overall, V3 was happy to review 'Boeing Boeing' and many in the audience were like 'Lucky bloke! Why can't we have three?' Well boys, you know what? The best things always come in threes!



