A long step back to a better future

History repeats itself because no one was listening the first time - Anon.

With the APRC submitting its first set of recommendations after one-and-a-half years of deliberation through 63 sittings, we are caught in the whirligig of history, or rather its repetition. There are many who already say that what has happened is only a retreat into 20 years of political history, to the time when the 13th Amendment to the Constitution was adopted.

It is not surprising that many would tend to scoff at the new importance given to the 13th Amendment, in a bid to resolve the national question. Such skepticism is not entirely out of place. It would certainly have been better if we had a much wider set of proposals for the devolution of power, but the search for such a process should also take into consideration the realities of politics as we have it today.

Last Thursday night the Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi lost a vote of confidence in the Senate and was compelled to resign. What most commentators saw in it was the result of a particularly flawed electoral system in Italy, which compelled the forming of large coalitions to take over the reins of power, which is not the best recommendation for a stable government.

The Italian people now face the possibility of having to vote in another General Election, which would again produce a result leading to the continuing of the revolving-door politics that country is now noted for.

The reality before us is that Sri Lanka faces a similar situation in our own politics, where under the current system of elections, no party can be assured for forming a Government without a coalition with other smaller groups that may not have the same political goals as the larger partner.

It is this electoral system that breeds instability in governance, which makes major constitution reform well nigh impossible in Sri Lanka today.

In such a situation, there is the need to look at the available means even to make a cautious beginning at resolving the national question.

The solution may not be whole, but if carried out with commitment it could at least be the beginning of greater change in the future, when the weight of 60 years of freedom, has brought more maturity to our politics and politicians.

Long delayed

It is a sad fact of our politics that the proper solutions for pressing issues are not provided in time. The time best time to resolve the language Issue would have been at the time of Independence. At that time the issue had not surfaced in the more acute form it did not the mid-1950s.

But, when it did happen, the proper solution was not provided. Carried away by racist chauvinism we adopted a one language policy and thought the matter was closed with the supremacy of the majority established.

Yet, it took 20 years and the constitutional changes brought about by the Indo-Lanka Accord and the 13th Amendment for the one-language policy to be abandoned, de jure, and Sinhala and Tamil to be accepted as official languages, with the inclusion of English as the link language. It is still not in place de facto.

Twenty years further down the line, the APRC has now recommended that all steps should be taken to fully implement the provisions of language in administration as it is in the law. What this shows is that we have spent 40 years in search of a solution that was available to us at the time the crisis began to surface.

Through this period we have had departments and commission to deal with the aspect of implementing language policy, but it is clear that the right actions have not been taken. The test of our maturity today is whether we are ready even now to fully implement the provisions of law that give equal status to Sinhala and Tamil, and begin to put at least that key issue behind us.

Style and substance

The necessity for the APRC to prod us into fully implementing the 13th Amendment flows from another such act of refusal to apply the available remedy at the proper time. The 13th Amendment brought about a far-reaching change in our structures of governance.

The fact that those who were the most vehement, and even violent, opponents of it are now enjoying the benefits of it by way of seats and ministries in the Provincial Councils shows the nature of the reforms adopted.

Again regrettably, we have refused to accept the spirit or the substance of reform, while only taking up its style, mainly for the perks that follow.

Twenty years after the 13th Amendment was adopted, at a time when President JR Jayewardene had control of 5/6th of Parliament, a great deal of political effort has been spent on seeking ways and means of negating the very purpose of that Amendment.

Over the years we have seen Presidents and Ministers from different Governments, from the UNP that brought in the Amendment and others that opposed it but had to work with it, seek to use the Amendment to get more powers to the Centre, in sharp contrast to the express purpose of the aim of the Amendment.

With President Rajapaksa's pledge to fully implement the recommendations of the APRC, he will have to pay all attention to reining the desire of empire builders in Government, in the form of ministers who are so eager to take on to the Central List more and more items that should be best left in the Devolved List. We are reminded of George Santayana's observation that: "Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it."

The repetition of policies where the best schools in the provinces were grabbed and put into the central basket as National Schools; or the best functioning provincial hospitals were given the title of National Hospitals to be in the Central List; and even the better maintained and longer roads in the provinces were deftly converted to National Highways to please the fancy of ministers is not something we can allow anymore.

Water power

I am reminded here of what Joe Seneviratne, a former minister of the North-East Provincial Council, told me of one of his experiences in that office. With all the excitement of devolution, it had been decided to launch a new water supply scheme for the city of Trincomalee, the capital of the North-East region.

The engineers of the Local Government service, who obtained the help of their colleagues in irrigation too, had toiled to produce a plan for the scheme, which they all felt would bring great relief to the people of Trincomalee and also raise the quality of life in Trinco as an emerging major port-city.

The Governor of the NE, a retired military officer, was also very enthusiastic about the project, and promised all assistance to ensure its success.

Once the proposals had been finalised the Governor had brought it to Colombo to be presented to the then President. He had left Trinco on this mission with great hopes of success, knowing well the public statements of the President about the importance of urban development.

Two days later the Governor returned to Trinco a defeated man. On meeting the ministers of the NE PC his one observation was that he did not know the mindset of politicians, who could turn down a project to provide good drinking water to the people.

For that was the result of his meeting with President Premadasa in Colombo. Water supply for Trincomalee was not a matter of priority the Governor had been told.

This is not a criticism of President Premadasa alone. It is just one example of how politicians ensured the negation of the spirit of devolution introduced by the 13th Amendment.

There are many such examples to show how the politicians have deliberately prevented the sharing of power with the provinces, leading to the considerable dissatisfaction that people in the provinces, particularly in the North and East, have with the Centre and its political manipulations.

The opportunity is now before the Government and the country to change this pattern and move towards greater understanding among people through practice and example. Small as this measure is, it is an opportunity that should not be missed. It is necessary to bear in mind the aphorism that "each time history repeats itself, the price goes up."

The cost in ignoring history has been very far too high in terms of life, blood and development, to continue any more with the same blindness towards reality.





