Fertiliser shortage still exists in A'pura

The authorities have failed to remedy the fertiliser shortage being experienced in several areas in Anuradhapura district.

The farmer organisations in Rajangane, Welioya, Wilachchiya Padaviya, Wahalkada and Kebithigollewa have urged the District Secretary and Anuradhaprua Agrarian Services Deputy Commissioner to intervene in providing them required quotas of fertiliser subsidy as a lapse on their part would badly effect the paddy cultivation in the district.

The issuing of fertiliser by Lak Pohora Company has been slow and only the Commercial company has been distributing fertiliser subsidy, the farmers organisations complain.

Though the Government has warned the maximum price of a bag of subsidised fertiliser the farmers allege that in certain areas such as Maha Wilachchiya, Padaviya and Welioya a bag of such fertiliser was sold at various prices ranging from Rs. 350 to Rs. 400.

The transporters and the Agrarian Services centres point out that the transport commission of Rs. 36 per bag is not adequate to cover the transport expenses. A bag of subsidised fertiliser is being issued by the company at Rs. 314 to the transport agents.

The farmer organisations placed the difficulties the farmers have to undergo in getting the fertiliser subsidy in time and in required quantities.

If the Commercial company curtails the distribution of fertiliser subsidy the farmers would suffer immensely and the progress in paddy cultivation would be hampered.

Farmers brought this matter to the notice of North Central Chief Minister Berty Premalal Dissanayake.

"We wouldn't insist in providing us fertiliser at the subsidised rate of Rs. 350 per bag. We agree to buy fertiliser at any price not exceeding Rs. 1,000 per bag in the open market. But the fertiliser subsidy should be extended to fruits, vegetables and all other crops.

If not the co-operatives could be facilitated to distribute fertiliser subsidy to the farmer organisations, or otherwise the Government should take the responsibility to transport the fertiliser levying a uniform transport charge on farmers islandwide", the farmers representatives proposed to the District Agriculture Committee.

They informed the Committee though the Agriculture Minister and the Chief Minister once pledged to construct fertiliser stores in the 40 agrarian services divisions in Anuradhapura, the programme has yet not been implemented.

They pointed out that if such metholodogy has been followed such a shortage or scarcity of fertiliser subsidy wouldn't arise.

The Government Agent and also the Chairman of the District Agriculture Committee, H.M.K. Herath told Daily News that the Government would be informed about the farmers' request with regard to the distribution of fertiliser and the reduction of the present rate of subsidy on same conditions laid out by the farmers for necessary action.





