I will ensure better future for rural people

President Mahinda Rajapaksa said his victory at the forthcoming election will ensure a better future for the farmers, rural masses and all Sri Lankans who truly love the Motherland.

President Rajapaksa was speaking at a massive rally at the Ampara UC Grounds on Thursday.

The President said that he would not allow any force to divide the country which was freed from the scourge of terrorism by the Government, again. "We reunited the country which was in shatters due to terrorism," he said. He said he was able to end an era in which certain forces were attempting to betray the country to terrorists.

He stressed that he would not allow any force to suppress the people again.

The people in rural villages in the Ampara district underwent numerous hardships and obstacles due to terrorism, he added.

He added that the country was brought under one banner eradicating terrorism in the North and East and the Government will bring unprecedented development to the country in the ensuing years under his leadership.

He said the people in this area can travel anywhere in the country without fear. The Government succeeded in fulfilling the 94 percent of the pledges outlined in the Mahinda Chintana within four years.

The President stressed that the Government will fulfil all the pledges outlined in the extended version of the Mahinda Chintana in the coming years and the country will witness unprecedented development in all spheres during his next term.

Unprecedented crowd

An unprecedented crowd was present at the election rally attended by President Mahinda Rajapaksa at the Ampara UC grounds on Thursday for the first time in the country's history.

People in their thousands thronged the Ampara UC grounds from rural villages such as Gonagala, Bakmitiyawa, Mangalagama, Nillamba and Aranthalawa where thousands of innocent people were hacked to death by the terrorists in broad daylight.

They voiced their anger against the sinister forces who are attempting to betray the country's victory over terrorism. The people in the East underwent untold hardships and obstacles due to terrorism, they said.

They disdained the Opposition's moves to remerge the North and the East with contempt and kept on shouting slogans not to reverse the achievements gained by the country for the past four years.

Kalmunai Urban Council member Kaththan Ganeshan expressed his unreserved support to President Mahinda Rajapaksa's candidature at the forthcoming Presidential election.

President Rajapaksa welcomed Ganeshan amidst the rousing applause of thousands of people who flocked to the Ampara UC grounds yesterday.





