Japan's reassurance

Japan and Sri Lanka have again reaffirmed their bonds of friendship following the visit of Japanese Peace Envoy Yasushi Akashi to the island over the weekend.

Japan has considered Sri Lanka as one of her closest friends ever since President J.R. Jayewardene appealed to the international community not to isolate Japan, at the San Francisco parley in 1951. However, religious and cultural links have existed between the two countries for centuries.

In today's context, Japan has become Sri Lanka's number one provider of funds and development assistance. Japan pledged nearly two billion Yen to Sri Lanka's development drive during President Mahinda Rajapaksa's recent State visit to Japan.

Many Japanese companies have invested in Sri Lanka. Japan has granted funds for the establishment of many institutions in Sri Lanka.

Japan has been playing a leading role in Lanka's peace efforts on its own and also as part of the Co-Chairs which also include Norway, US and the European Union. It is in this capacity that Akashi visited Sri Lanka.

President Rajapaksa and other senior Government figures have told Akashi in no uncertain terms that the Government remained firmly committed to a negotiated political solution. It was stressed that the Government does not believe in a military solution.

Akashi has expressed Japan's satisfaction on this point and many other countries have praised Lanka's commitment to a political solution despite suffering some of the worst acts of terrorism.

Akashi, on his part, has also quashed speculation that Japan would curtail funds to Sri Lanka following the abrogation of the Ceasefire Agreement. The Government has apprised the international community on the reasons for its withdrawal from the flawed truce signed in 2002, which the LTTE has violated over 3,000 times.

The Japanese Government will continue to support Sri Lanka in view of achieving sustainable peace based on a political solution, Akashi has said.

To this end, the Government has expedited the All Party Representative Committee (APRC) process, with the final draft expected to be presented to President Rajapaksa next week.

As Akashi has pointed out, the road to peace will not be easy to traverse. The current military action has to be seen in this light. The objective is to weaken the LTTE to a point where it will opt for negotiations, not violence. In any peace process, pitfalls are inevitable. Perseverance is the key to lasting peace.

An eye opener

The recent case where a man has spent 50 years in remand should be an eye-opener to legal authorities in the country. The charge against him does not warrant more than a few years in prison, if the case went ahead according to the normal procedure.

However, in this case he has languished for nearly 50 years in prison, seemingly forgotten by all.

Half a century is a very long time in a person's lifespan. If he was sent to jail in line with proper legal procedures, he could have been rehabilitated within a few years. He could have made a substantial contribution to society. Now he is 80 and well past his prime.

The Justice Ministry and prison authorities should take this opportunity to go through their records again and check whether there are any more cases of this nature. This seems to be a glaring example of prison bureaucracy that has virtually robbed a person of the best period in his life.

Legal authorities should now formulate simpler procedures to effect remand and jail terms to avoid bureaucratic jumbles. It is also heartening to note that the courts system is taking steps to reduce law's delays, another cause for long remand periods. Some minor cases drag on for years, and suspects have to be in remand during that period if no bail is granted or if they are unable to pay the same.

There are also instances when innocent people have been sent to prison for crimes they had never committed. But that is fast becoming a thing of the past with the latest crime solving techniques including DNA testing. The Police as well as the legal system must be necessarily be kept up-to-date on the latest techniques in this regard.

As far as we know, Sri Lanka still does not have a proper mechanism to compensate people who are wrongfully remanded or imprisoned. This case indicates the need to evolve such a mechanism. In most other countries, substantial compensation is granted to the individuals concerned and their families. The legal authorities should study such mechanisms and tailor a suitable system for Sri Lanka.

This also brings into focus the concept of legal aid for litigants who cannot afford to hire lawyers to represent them in courts. Most litigants are not aware that such a system exists for their benefit.

The Daily News publishes a page on this subject to create awareness among the public. More media outlets should join this noble exercise so that justice can be meted out to all, regardless of their social standing.

Geneva Conventions:

Privileged terrorists, deprived soldiers

The four Geneva Conventions concern the protection of the wounded and the sick (GC I), the wounded, sick and shipwrecked at Sea (GC II), prisoners of war (GC III) and civilians (GC IV) respectively. Further, Additional Protocol I of 1977 relates to the protection of victims of international armed conflict and Additional Protocol II deals with, for the first time, the protection of victims of non-international armed conflicts.

Debate

Revive the Green Revolution

Today, the sector of agriculture has got a severe blow as our farmers fail to produce the amount of food that this nation requires. It is no exaggeration to say that agriculture which was the backbone of the economy of this nation is today in tatters due to the faults of our past politicians.





