President promises safety for all

President Mahinda Rajapaksa yesterday vowed to build the country in which the people of all communities could live in peace without fear or intimidation.

The President made this vow before thousands of people who flocked to the historical Thirikkovil Hindu Kovil premises in Thirikkovil yesterday. The election rally was organized by President's Ampara district coordinator Eniya Bharathi.

Large crowds at a rally addressed by President Mahinda Rajapaksa in Thirikkovil yesterday. - Picture by Kamal Jayamanne.

President Rajapaksa participated in a special pooja at the historical Kovil before he addressed the meeting. He is the first Head of State to visit this Kovil which is believed to have been constructed by King Chola of South India.

President Rajapaksa said all communities should shed petty differences and live together protecting and promoting well established democratic norms in the country.

"The people in Thirikkovil underwent numerous hardships and obstacles due to terrorism and the Government ended that gruesome era for good," he said.

The President said there should not be differences among the people over ethnicity, caste or religions and all communities should live as sons and daughters of Mother Lanka.

He added that he has the responsibility to ensure the safety of all communities and he is dedicated to protect and promote their safety.

President Rajapaksa stressed that all facilities are given to the fishermen involved in deep sea fishing. "The Government will infuse new technology to the agriculture sector in the area too," he said. He added that the people in Thangawelayudapuram would be resettled in their original homes soon and the Government ensures all facilities to them to live in their original places with dignity.

The President said the people should provide better education to their children and the Government is ready to provide all facilities to them.

He added that the Eastern province has seen massive development in terms of infrastructure. He said the Pottuvil-Habarana road via Batticaloa is being carpeted and the Government is developing all rural roads.

"We are ready to provide all facilities to this province which was battered by protracted conflict. The Government has carried out a number of development activities in this Province too," he said.

The President stressed that the country was brought under one banner after 30 years and requested the people to join hands with the Government to bring prosperity to the country.

President Rajapaksa added that all parts of the country should receive the dividends of development equally and no preferential treatment should be given to any parts of the country.

"If my village is given gold, other villages in the country should also receive gold," he stressed.

He said the Thirikkovil Hindu temple will be developed soon. President Rajapaksa added that a cultural centre is expected to be built in Thirikkovil to promote cultural values in the area.





