Facing the realities of global economic setback

Vipula Wanigasekera

The global crisis that took the economic world by storm in 2008 may continue to do so with various magnitudes thus impacting on industries across the board. In spite of the versions that some countries are gradually coming out of the situation, one of the most affected fields is tourism which is considered by consumers as an elected excess and not a necessity.

Lanka needs to have a mechanism to assess overall spending of holiday makers during their stay rather than isolating the payment for the hotel accommodation.

People will be more cautious in spending for leisure travel and will look for more meaningful, rather than extravagant vacations. This is revealed in a recently released research by the Tourism Journalists Association which shows that Domestic tourism will grow as tourists will travel around their own countries than fly to another. This is one of the cheapest way of having a holiday that will in turn balance out the anticipated lack in foreign tourists into hospitality industries that are dependent on long haul travellers.

The second option is to travel to nearby countries. Next best thing is going to neighbouring countries where they're not expected to spend as much as a jet-setting spree. Europeans may go backpacking across their continent; Americans to North or South; while Asians may island-hop around the tropics.

It was with this reason that emphasis were made to entice the potential from India in which the Sri Lankan industry can compete with other countries for Indian Corporate business and holiday makers citing that Sri Lanka is still a value destination compared to Malaysia, Thailand and Singapore.

The same report describes faith tourism-Sabbaticals, Pilgrimage, Airline staff travellers and other religious tourism subcategories are among the top travel choices in 2009 and this would be the case for 2010 too. Also popular are personal spiritual vacations where the travellers meditate and "self-help.

"Shouldn't this be queue for Sri Lankan Tourism while we continue to long for the Sea, Sun and Sand visitors. Visits to Cultural/historical,Ramayana sites are abundant in our country that would compensate the decreasing numbers to 3S locations.

The forerunner to the visits to such places would be education and awareness that should be adequately covered in communications methods and modes.

Another trend in Europe is Camping - A cheaper vacation option that is preferred to replace five-star resorts.

The folk that would be interested to go on nature trips and explore the great outdoors and take part in adventurous activities should have opportunities and packages.

Here again the primary purposes of this kind of tourism are nature-appreciation, and retreat from city life. Sri Lanka has many DMC experts who are capable of providing such facilities who await opportunities to offer their creative packages that would make the visitors leave the country with life time memories.

Environmental issues have come into play in a big way as educated tourists choose accommodations that are identified and certified green. It is a strong selling point today where hospitality industries in many countries are advocating the implementation of eco-friendliness in locations and products which some of our hoteliers are already pioneering.

This is a sensible alternative for the budget-conscious traveller. The upgrading of accommodation facilities to tourism standards is the answer and encouragement is expected towards that.

Sri Lanka needs to have a mechanism to assess overall spending of holiday makers during their stay rather than isolating the payment for the hotel accommodation. For instance, an average Indian spends as high as 16 percent of his expenditure on shopping which is a contribution to the overall economy of the country.

The Internet plays a major role among FITs when working out their itineraries. Apart from getting information about the country and places plus prices, they are also offered with three-dimensional imaging of places that would give them better understanding on where they are going to be.

As predicted in 2009, Asian countries will continue to be popular tourist destinations in 2010 too. Sri Lanka's dilemma is to stand up to massive promotional campaigns and aggressive sales promotions engaged by the neighbours not only because of their financial strengths but also their dependence on tourism as an industry being extremely high.

Sri Lanka is expected to strike a balance. It needs to follow the basics to face the macro factors that are affecting long haul travel to keep the industry moving.

The traditions are moving away much faster with these uncontrollable elements as well as changing traveller needs.

Secondly to bring out what is unique into programs and they consist of locations, products as well as innovative programs.

Towards realizing these goals, the industry works hard with the authorities and the blessing above all is the peace that the country has gained followed by the removal of travel advisories. That said, the present conducive situation must be exploited before the country loses its glamour with heavy promotional campaigns and incentives offered by competitors.

Latest addition to exclusive luxury hotels

Sorowwa Resort and Spa opens on 27:

Surrounded by the breathtaking Habarana Lake and the Pidurangala and Ritigala mountain range is the home for the luxurious Sorowwa Resort and Spa the newest addition to Sri Lanka's exclusive chain of luxury hotels The breathtaking lake and the sorowwa view, the picturesque bird's eye view of the virgin forest and the astounding sight of the elephants that come to the lake to quench their thirst add glamour to this cosy 24 roomed Sorowwa Resort and Spa which will be opened for the guests on Wednesday January 27. Owned and managed by two eminent consultant doctors Nawaz Jeffery and Damayanthi Nanayakkara the hotel would be the ideal venue for those who want to explore the Cultural Triangle, the ancient cities Polonnaruwa and Anuradhapura and the eighth wonder of the world the Sigiriya rock.

A Experience the excluding seclusion, luxury and romance; Sorowwa Resort and Spa is a landmark of impeccable taste ready to offer the panoramic view of the picturesque surrounding that your eyes may hesitate to leave.

The hotel boasts the finest hideaway and experiences a holiday in the dry zone, which would no doubt be a collection of long lasting memories to the visitors.

Bask in the grandeur in close proximity to two ancient capitals of the then Ceylon the resort is ready to welcome its valued guests with a charming tradition of significance that makes you comfortable during your much sort after vacation at Sorowwa Resort and Spa. The resort beckons you to experience the soothing tranquillity and relax into the quite ambience to feel the difference of the best; and the hotel offers you and your entire family a special holiday experience. With elegantly appointed 24 luxury rooms have their own private balconies or patios with the panoramic view of the lake or the sorowwa.

The rooms are well equipped with all required facilities and king size bed, Internet, IDD and sat elite television Wake up from a heavenly slumber to indulge in a breath of fresh air and un-wrap your mind to the luxury engulfed with picturesque landscapes and the lake.

In an idyllic setting the fully air conditioned hotel restaurant, the open bar, the seminar hall and the ayurvedic spa is geared to provide services for its guests from January 27.

Unwrap you mind to the luxury to savour the hospitality at Sorowwa Resort and Spa in the dry zone and feel the difference to your self and explore to a world with rich flavours and creative healthy cuisines prepared by the executive chef.

French hotel giant Accor reports revenue drop

French hotel and services giant Accor on Tuesday reported an 8.5-percent drop in its revenue in 2009 to 7.065 billion euros (10.095 billion dollars) because of the effects of the global economic crisis.

But the group said it was keeping a target of a pre-tax operating profit of between 400 and 450 million euros for 2009 as indicated last August.

"In a business environment still severely hit by the recession" the hotel business saw a 9.8-percent drop in revenue, Accor also said, with a particularly high drop in earnings from its upscale and midscale hotels.

"In the hotels business, the fourth quarter saw an improvement in business compared with previous quarters, with the occupancy rate showing the first signs of stabilizing in December," the earnings report said.

"Revenue for the quarter has demonstrated the firmer resistance both of the hotels business in Europe compared to the United States and of the economy segment compared with the upscale and midscale segment," it added.

Accor employs more than 150,000 people and runs 3,982 hotels around the world, including the Ibis, Mercure, Novotel and Sofitel brands.

PARIS, AFP

India's Eiffel Tower rises from coconut groves

It's been copied in Las Vegas and hangs on a thousand keyrings: now another replica of the Eiffel Tower is to be built in former French-occupied India, 8,000 kilometres (5,000 miles) from the original.

Authorities in Pondicherry, the one-time capital of French India, have started construction of a 100-metre (330 feet) model of the famous iron landmark to attract tourists to the southeastern coastal region.

The replica, being built at a cost of 450 million rupees (10 million dollars) in the enclave of Yanam on India's east coast, will have a restaurant, a viewing gallery with telescopes and an elevator — much like its sister in the French capital.





