600m long fly-over at Kelaniya to cost Rs. 2b

Chamikara Weerasinghe

The Ministry of Highways and Road Development together with the Road Development Authority has commenced construction of a fly-over across the railway line near Vidyalankara Pirivena in Kelaniya. This fly-over would cost Rs. 2 billion.

The General Manager of the Road Development Authority, R.W.R. Premasiri said the construction activities officially commenced yesterday. The fly-over will be 600 metres long and it will be 14 metres in width. "The construction is expected to ensure smooth transport on the Colombo-Kandy highway at all times and would eliminate traffic delays due to the closure of the rail-gate," said Premasiri.

"This will be a major project of the RDA for 2008," he said. The construction is carried out with funds from the Government of Britain, who will also oversee its progress, he said.

The RDA plans to complete construction of the fly-over by the end of June, 2008. Explaining how the RDA would carry out the construction , Premasiri said, "Two lanes will be closed for traffic and two lanes will be opened for the use of transport near the construction site."

"We regret the inconveniences caused to the public as a result of this. We request them to use alternate routes during the phase of construction," he said.

Colombo bound traffic may use Route Number 1 and travel from Dalugama Junction via R.S. Perera Mawatha, Nungamugoda Road, Waragoda Road, Biyagama Road, Peliyagoda Roundabout and Baseline Junction. They may use route Number 2, from the Tyre Corporation, 3 from Thorana Junction and proceed via Nungamugoda Road to Waragoda, Biyagama and Peliyagoda Roundabout to Baseline Junction.

Route Number 4 is from Belummahara Junction-Weliweriya-Biyagama-Kaduwela-Battaramulla-Rajagiriya-Borella, Route 5 from Belummahara Junction-Weliweriya, Biyagama-Kaduwela, Battaramulla-Rajagiriya-Borella and route from Kiribathgoda-Makola Road-Sapugaskanda-Bollegala-Biyagama Road to Baseline Junction.





