Managing economy on our own

Hema SENANAYAKE

This has reference to the article called 'No devaluation No IMF bailout' published on January 19. In that article Director Economies Government Peace Secretariat, Rohantha Athukorale said one important thing: "Sri Lanka must manage its economy on its own."

If we are to manage our own economy first thing we should do is to reduce the trade deficit with an objective to balance it out in the medium to long term. If there is an immediate crisis in foreign exchange reserves the Central Bank has only one option and one word: 'borrow'. Whether you borrow it from IMF or targeted Bond issues to Sri Lankan Diaspora in Mid East or from other willing foreign Central Banks, is only a micro economic decision to be made.

On the other hand devaluation of currency is a macro economic policy tool that can be used to promote exports in a bad global economic environment.

objectives and policy tools

It is also a policy tool, that can be used to discourage imports if import substitute enterprises are encouraged. The objective is to narrow the trade deficit facilitating to improve foreign exchange reserves.

If anybody who perceives that there is a foreign exchange reserve crisis and suggests devaluing the currency as a solution is in fact is a not solution. If the crisis is imminent 'temporary borrowing' is the best tool.

If there is no immediate crisis as suggested by the sources of Central Bank then there should be no rush to borrow and should think of appropriate devaluation as it will help to promote export while reducing the local demand for foreign exchange.

However comparing temporary borrowing instrument and a policy tool is ridiculous. Both tools might be useful for the Central Bank. Ability to borrow for short term will not negate a policy tool that is useful to promote export and reduce the local demand for foreign exchange. This is an environment that should be used to promote import substitute enterprises.

Countries cannot prevail economically with huge trade deficits. It is true for the United States and true for Sri Lanka too. Though we need to promote export to pay for our imports the concept of export led growth is coming to an end. We need to use local resources to produce for the well being of the members of our society.

With the global economic crisis, which is going to last at least for another decade, the United States and major western economies essentially made the WTO redundant.

Those countries used and will be used in near future enormous fiscal incentives to protect their local industries and financial institutions, which is not fully acceptable to WTO. But being true to our commitments to WTO Sri Lanka should not provide outrageous fiscal incentives to export industry as intimated by the Daily News article instead we must provide maximum incentives to local industries that produce to local market.

fiscal incentives

Even foreign companies that come with important technological transfers to produce and sell in the local market must be supported perhaps by fiscal incentives.

To do all these we need one important thing. That is we must put a system in place to produce money in right quantity, distribute them among various economic agents and destroy money when it is necessary in order to put the local physical productive power into production.

Then only we can start to manage our own economy as suggested by Atukorale.

Most economists and Central Bankers now know that the great American monetary experiment done in the last century to put such a system has now failed and is beginning to end with this global crisis.

Sri Lanka and other countries as well cannot depend on that erroneous system which America itself cannot rely on. But this global crisis clearly showed that the given physical productive power cannot be used for production if the money system is faltering. Is the Sri Lanka's money system well on target? This is a question that the government must raise from its Central Bank and other economic advisors.





