



Inter-Company Netball Championship on Jan.12 and 13

Bernard PERERA

After a successful completion of the inaugural 'Sri Lanka Sports.com' Netball Challenge 2006 which was held as part of fourth anniversary celebration of its sports website of Sports Line Marketing (pvt) Limited will stage its second tournament on January 12th and 13th at the National Youth Center Indoor Stadium, Maharagama.

The tournament is played for Cup, Plate, Shield and Bowl Championships. This new format gives more opportunities for experienced and up and coming teams to show their talents and compete in an equal manner.

Since the tournament received more entries than last year the format of the tournament has been designed to accommodate more teams and 24 top teams representing prestigious companies in Sri Lanka will battle for the supremacy in Cup, Plate and Bowl in this years Competition.

This will also go in to history as Sri Lanka's first ever inter company netball tournament completely conducted in an indoor stadium on a carnival atmosphere.

Apart from the main Championships awards there will be a special awards for the cup winners. Sri Lankasports.com Challenge Trophy will be awarded to the Cup winners and certificates of participation will be awarded to all members of the participating teams.

According to the official team draw held on December 12, 2007 Twenty Four (24) teams were drawn in to six groups of four A,B, C,D,E and F.

The Finance and Guarantee (F&G) Group a member of Ceylinco Group will be the Co-sponsor of the event. Popular Radio channel Ran FM will be the electronic media partner for the event.

Hatton National Bank was crowned as Cup winners while Seylan Bank took away the Cup Runners Up trophy. David Peiris Motor Company won the Plate Championship and runner up award went to Sampath Bank.

Commercial Bank took the Bowl Championship while Star Garment winning the runners up award. Ceylinco CISCO was the Shield Champions and Ceylon Biscuits received the runners up award.

Apart from the Challenge Trophies all players will receive a certificate of participation.

The entire tournament will be conducted under the technical assistance of Ms Thilaka Jinadasa, Director -Technical and Coaching of the Academy of Netball, Kotte. Yogananda Wijesundara a well known sports administrator and the former director of National Institute of Sports Science (NISS) will be the match referee of the tournament.

This tournament has received the Blessings of the Netball Federation of Sri Lanka and the Mercantile Netball Association. and Deputy Chairman of F& G Group Mr Mervyn Jayasinghe will be the chief Guest and The President of the Netball Federation of Sri Lanka Mrs Shereen Kumaratunga will be the guest of honour.





