Ganga Addara

By the Mahaweli river:

Beverley JANSZ

Built on a scenic location bordering Lanka's most renowned Mahaweli River, is Ganga Addara, the newest boutique type hotel in Athugalpura Kandy. The hotel began operations in April, 2007 and has become a most popular destination for both foreign and local tourists who seek the unique Kandyan hospitality. All rooms are equipped with star class facilities including hot water, satellite TV, A/C, private balconies, telephone and room service.

Built on Devana Rajasinghe Mawatha at Getambe, Kandy the hotel offers a large banquet hall for weddings and other functions, tours to Peradeniya Botanical Garden, Dalada Maligawa, Ambekka Temple and other places of tourist interest in and around Kandy.

The restaurant offers International and Sri Lankan cuisine prepared by a well experienced executive chef, Anura Ranawanagedera and his kitchen brigade. Managing Partner, Rohan de Silva, formerly of Queen's Hotel, Kandy a versatile and well experienced hotelier, takes special care to offer guests a most memorable stay at Ganga Addara.

Asitha Ruwanpathirana, (Chairman MD),

The hotel stands on a beautifully landscaped property, with a kiddies wonderland equipped with an electric train, bouncers and other toys for childrens' entertainment. It has a Billiard Room.

Rohan de Silva (Managing partner).

All guest rooms have been built in such a manner to offer guests a panoramic view of the curving point of Mahaweli River and the Gannoruwa bridge.

'Api Venuwen Api'

The Ceylon Hotels Corporation has been providing a yeoman service to both foreign and local tourists, for the past 40 years.

CHC owns and manages rest houses, hotels and motels in some of the most scenic locations in Sri Lanka.

Tissamaharama Rest House

Since the Galle Face Hotel Management Co. took over the Ceylon Hotels Corporation, they have re-focused more on providing affordable food and accommodation to the foreign and domestic tourist.

As their outlets are in some of the most beautiful locations, their prime concern now is to provide facilities to Sri Lankans to tour Sri Lanka and experience and admire the great things done by our ancestors' Chief Executive Officer, Ceylon Hotels Corporation, Anura Lokuhetti said.

A maestro in the travel trade, Lokuhetty explained 'A person who was born in 1983 has been only hearing about the terrorist problem in this country. As a result, Sri Lankans do not realise what a great country they live in, which is full of natural resources and abundance of cultural heritage.

Kotmale Rest House

In this context under the direction of Chairman, Galle Face Hotel Management Co. Sanjiv Gardiner, the Ceylon Hotels Corporation is offering special packages at affordable prices for Sri Lankans to show their children the great work done by our ancestors, Lokuhetty said.

Admiring and facilitating the service rendered by our Security Forces to restore peace, we have offered special packages for families, up to 20 per cent on week days and 15 per cent on week ends on all CHC hotels, rest houses and motels. In all CHC Avanhalas, a special discount of five per cent is being offered on meals.

Under the direction of Chairman, Galle Face Hotel Management Col. Sanjiv Gardiner, all CHC hotels, rest houses and motels have taken steps to offer its guests authentically and hygienically prepared food.

CHC also boasts of serving locally grown garden fresh vegetables and fruits grown by farmers who live close to the respective hotels and rest houses.

Polonnaruwa Rest House

By doing this CHC is trying to develop community participation is developing domestic tourism. In all hotels and resthouses, the CHC serves only fresh milk.

Lokuhetty said that Sanjiv Gardiner's vision is to develop domestic tourism by providing facilities at affordable prices to Sri Lankans.

The Ceylon Hotels Corporation has also designed a unique tour packages for busy executives and professionals to provide facilities for their parents to spend holidays at any rest house or hotel owned by the CHC. 'We will take care of their parents'. This package includes transportation to visit religious, cultural and other scenic locations.

One such offer is picking up the parents from their homes, taking them for breakfast at Ambepussa Rest House, lunch at Swisse Hotel, Kandy, over-night stay at Queens Hotel, Kandy, evening pooja at Dalada Maligawa, overnight stay at Queens Hotel, Kandy, lunch at Pinnawala Elephant Orphanage and bringing them back safely home. This is a unique package. A special package is also offered to groups of over four persons, Lokuhetty explained.

Another special feature at CHC hotels is that guests could enjoy a truly Sri Lankan hospitality and feel at home. All CHC rest houses and hotels also have the facility for weddings and home-coming functions at their beautiful locations, Lokuhetty said.

Specially priced gift vouchers are offered by the CHC. These can be purchased from the Ceylon Hotels Corporation, No. 411, Galle Road, Colombo 4, or at any of the CHC outlets. These can be presented to their customers and loved ones who could enjoy a most memorable holiday at a beautiful location.

Further details of these unique offers can be obtained from the Ceylon Hotels Corporation, No. 411, Galle Road, Colombo 4.

Novel approach by Taj Samudra Local chef to whet your appetite

For the first time since commencing operations in Sri Lanka the Taj Samudra Hotel has appointed a Sri Lankan as its Executive chef. Veteran hotelier, Dhaithya Krawage has been selected to be Taj Samudra's first Sri Lankan Executive Chef.

After finishing his studies, Krawage joined the Ceylon Hotels Corporation (CHC) as a trainee cook in 1980. While at the CHC, he followed a course at the Ceylon Hotel School, and joined Hotel Triton, Ahungalla as a trainee steward. While at Triton, Krawage also followed a Diploma Course on Food Production conducted by Hilton Colombo. At the same time, he followed a Diploma course in professional cookery.

Dhaithya Krawage

In 1992 he joined Taj Samudra Hotel, Colombo as a sous chef at the hotel's Fine Dining Restaurant.

In 1994, Krawage left for Abu Dabhi and joined Forte Grand as a chef Garde Manager (Cold kitchen chef) after 1-1/2 years he returned to Sri Lanka.

In 1994, Krawage left for Australia on an invitation from Kerry Packer, world renowned cricketer and media personality who owns channel-9, Public Broadcasting Ltd, Consolidated Press Holdings etc. From 1994 to 2001 he worked for Kerry Packer. A special feature here is that Krawage travelled from North Pole to South pole with Mr. Packer as his private chef during this period, he catered to Princess Caroline, Queen of Monacco, the late King Hussain of Jordan, Bill Gates, Microsoft chief, Michael Douglas, well known Hollywood Actor and Tom Cruse well known Hollywood Actor, etc.

In 2001, he returned to Sri Lanka and joined the Deer Park, Polonnaruwa as an Executive Chef. In 2002 he left for the Maldives and joined Coco Beach Hotel as the corporate chef. In October 2007, Taj Samudra Hotel opened its doors for a Sri Lankan Executive chef and Dhatiya Krawage was the lucky hotelier to be selected as Taj Samudra's first Sri Lankan chef.

The Sri Lankan special spicy dishes will be prepared by Executive Chef Lakshman Liyanaarachchi for all Sri Lankan food lovers at the Coffee Shop - Cafe Emerald of the Ceylon Continental Hotel during dinner. Sri Lanka curries presented in a delicious form of a buffet will be offered to guests from 7 pm to 11 pm during the festival. To enlighten the evening there will be an action station, traditional Sri Lankan decor, prizes & surprises too.





