The Reverie

Words: Please don't forsake me!

Premil RATNAYAKE

After you have put your typewriter to bed, you look for some sleep at home but the words keep chasing after you - words that you missed to use or did not use. It is a race that plagues you. You have no freedom.

They keep drumming your ears: they are like some sprites. In your fatigue you had forgotten how sweet they were during the first part of the day when they were dancing on your typewriter: their sweet melody had ceased for you, temporarily you know, but now with their over-love to be with you, to continue with you, irritates you.

You want to sleep: a man looking for slumber has no need for love.

During the day that had passed not so long ago you were making celestial love with them.

The typewriter was aching, though with pleasure, under their weight and you were ecstatic. You were humming to yourself thumping on the machine until your fingers ached, for it was a divine trilogy, you, the typewriter and the stream of words.

The story came out well steady and euphonic. It was like a dream-dance, the words lifted you to some soul-stirring fantasy and you had imbibed them so well your beloved machine kept rattling and then you sensed someone was behind you, trying to read over your shoulder. Naturally you were mad.

It was some reporter trying to snoop; now that was bad journalism and you wanted to turn around and whop him. But the words and the machine keys kept tugging at you.

You dismissed the intruder with an all-meaning stare and got back to typing.

The story was now getting on well and you were thankful to Providence - or it Muse? but what could a story tell without the dear words? A good thing that words cannot express themselves by themselves, for, they are bereft of a mouth organ.

There is an intimacy built between the words and my machine like a clandestine love affair - an affair I envy but cannot do without - what if my fingers refused to move and the words failed to overwhelm me - yes, I need the overwhelming - it's like the need for the nectar sometimes you need to sit at the machine of my creativity and begin a story. But I know if you become blasphemous and write trite, write doggerel the Muse will disinherit you and the words will accuse you of betrayal and leave you. That is the time you feel that your beloved whom you have loved for ages has deserted you, your heart strings have snapped and you are left with no story. I could dimly hear them whispering:

The typewriter: "These days you are not coming to me, my beloved."

The words: "I cannot help it; our master is desecrating our Art."

The typewriter: "Yet he is our master......"

The words: "True. But I cannot help him unless he keeps to our sublime Art which I have pledged to follow like a religion."

The typewriter: "Please have pity on him. These days he is sick - drunk throughout the day...."

The words: "Pity the man who has forsaken Art for the sake of drink? That I will never; go and wake him up with your rattling; you have the means. Unfortunately I have no voluble communication medium to bring him to his senses.

The hazy dream woke me up with the musical rattling of the typewriter, my sweet mistress.

Then I had made the pledge not to betray my Art and saw the words descending on my machine. I was elated; my machine was elated and the words were dancing..... the trilogy was in place. To hell with drink - I shall keep writing religiously ..... the true Hemingwayean one honest sentence ..... but words..... please don't forsake me!





