Online edition of Daily News - Lakehouse NewspapersIn Sri Lanka wide economic disparities are responsible for inequalities in food availability and food consumption among various social strata. We need to discard various myths like that of good nutrition being synonymous with expensive food. As medical students (1958-1964) we were taught by our medical school teachers that if a person wanted to get all the essential amino acids (which are found in proteins) vitamins and minerals we have to advise our patients to consume eggs, milk and other animal proteins such as beef, liver and mutton. 

 Vegetarian food is not lacking in any nutrients in comparison to non-vegetarian food Even today many doctors are seen advocating the consumption of expensive animal foods for recovery from illnesses. The increase in prices of all foods in our country leaves a majority of the population devoid of "so-called nutritious animal foods" such as fish, meat and eggs. The need for the hour for both families and institutions is to try and substitute low-cost nutritious foods into the budget. This article is an attempt to evaluate the economic advantages of a vegetarian diet. It has been estimated that the cost involved in the production of animal foods is 6 to 10 times greater than that involved for vegetarian foods. (Proc 9th Int.Congr. of Nutrition held in Mexico (3-9 Sept 1975). The caloric return is much greater when good land is used to grow food grains rather than to produce milk. At least 50% more biologically useful calories can be obtained from the crop in terms of the yield as compared to milk produced. It has been estimated that it is possible to feed 7 times as many people on crops consumed directly than crops first consumed by livestock and then converted to meat and milk and eaten by people. If countries were to accept a predominately vegetarian diet, many more people could be fed on same acres (Paarlberg D. Prospects of improving world food supply and nutrition. World Rev. Nutr. Dietat, 16.414) When vegetarian food is consumed by man, if relatively well digested, the food yields more nutrients than had it been first fed to the animals and the animal products (meat liver, ham, bacon, sausages etc.,) then fed to man. The efficiency with which animals convert the feed into food for man is thus only partial I am citing a few examples of foods and the nutrient content of vegetarian and non-vegetarian foods. Just to cite few examples (per 100g of edible portion) (a) Hens egg (100g) supplies 176 Kcals 13.3 g of fat 60 mg of calcium, 2.1 mg of iron and 360 megram of carotene. (b) Fowl (100 g of edible portion) supplies 109 Kcal of energy 25.9 g of protein, 0.6 gm of fast, 25 mg of calcium. (c) Mutton (100 g of edible portion) supplies 194 Kcal of energy. 18.5 g of protein 13.3 g of fat, 150 mg of calcium, 2.5 mg if iron and 9.0 mcg of carotene. (d) Pork (100 mg of edible portion) provides 114 Kcal of energy, 18.7 g of protein 4.4 g of fat, 30 mg of calcium, 2.2 mg of iron. (e) Fish (100 g) contain 650 Kcals of energy, 16.6 g of protein, 1.4 fat, 1.0 mg calcium. (f) Soyabean (100 g of edible portion) provides 342 Kcal of energy, 43.2 of protein, 19.5 g of fat (no cholesterol in soya) 240 mg calcium, 11.5 mg of iron and 426 mcg of carotene. (g) Dhal (100 mg) contains 372 Kcals, 24 g of protein, 1.4 g fat, 154 mg of calcium, 9.1 g of iron and 12.9 mcg carotene. (h) Peanuts (Ground nuts) 100 g edible portion contains 567 Kcals, 25.3 g protein 40.1 mg of calcium, 2.8 mg of iron, and 37 mcg of carotene. Per unit cost of non-vegetarian food such as fowl, mutton, pork, beef, fish and milk is 10 to 40 times that of vegetarian foods such as soyabean, dhal and ground nuts. Thus, although some non-vegetarian doctors argue that animal foods are good sources of proteins and calories the actual available protein and calories to man is significantly lower. Thus man ends up paying an extra amount of money for nutrients which are actually not fully available to him. Coming to the consumer level, vegetarian food is not lacking in any nutrients in comparison to non-vegetarian food. Non-vegetarian diet does not contain fiber that prevents colon cancer. In Sri Lanka non-vegetarian foods are extremely expensive compared to vegetarian diet. About 14 per cent of the total protein and 17 per cent of the calories of normal non-vegetarian diet are believed to be met from animal origin. It is estimated that if these calories are consumed from vegetarian sources then about 5000 Kcals per day per person would be made available to the world over. Tannenbaum SR, significance and Potential for the Tropics, Pllenum Fress New York, 1976). It is a misconception that vegetable foods are lacking in vital nutrients. If a comparison of the relative costs of per unit - of protein and calories is calculated, the vegetarian sources clearly emerge as cheaper sources of both good quality proteins and calories, vitamins and minerals. It is clear that non-vegetarian food is neither superior, better off nutritionally, nor it is economically advantageous though it is true that the amino-acid profile of some animal proteins such as eggs and milk ranks better than some of the vegetable protein. However this can be overcome by supplementation of the limiting amino acid through other foods such as, legumes (Soya, dhal lima beans) ("mekeral") beans and "dambala" and eating rice or bread and dhal or peanuts (ground nuts) which can be used as curries etc. All the other vegetables and fruits contain high quality proteins, calories, vitamins, minerals and fibre (which animal food does not contain). Vegetarian foods do not contribute to development of cancer, obesity hypertension, gall bladder calculi, diabetes, hypercholesterolemia and vegetarian diet is very much cheaper than animal diet. Asthma is a common, chronic disorder of the airways resulting in recurrent attacks of breathlessness, generally accompanied by wheezing, chest tightness and cough, which varies in severity over time. Worldwide, over 150 million people have been diagnosed with asthma. The condition affects about one in 10 children and one in seven adults. The incidence of asthma is rising - in Western Europe, it has doubled in the past 10 years. In the USA, the number of people with asthma has risen by over 60 per cent since the early 1980s. Asthma is a public health problem in developing countries too. In India, there are 15-20 million people with asthma. In Kenya, asthma affects 11 per cent of the population, in Nigeria 18 per cent. Asthma is caused by abnormalities in the smooth muscle and by inflammation of the airways. Chronic inflammation makes the nerve endings in the airways hypersensitive to external stimuli such as cigarette smoke and cold air. Many people with asthma also have allergies to pollen, house dust, mites and animal fur which can also stimulate the sensitised nerve endings. Such stimulation leads to contraction of the smooth muscle and narrowing of the airways, making it hard to breathe normally. In addition, inflammation makes the airway lining swollen - further impending air flow in and out of the lungs. Asthma has a significant impact on patient well-being, and the ability to lead a normal working, social and family life. In many countries, hospital admission rates for children with asthma are increasing. Globally, over 180,000 people die from asthma each year. In the USA, death rates have doubled since the early 1980s, to 5,000/year. Mortality is often linked to poor education about the disease, failure to use anti-inflammatory medication, poor compliance, or inadequate evaluation of the severity of asthma (by patients or healthcare professionals) Globally, the cost of asthma is estimated to be higher than that of TB and HIV/AIDS combined. Olive oil is good for you and the planet In the UK, sales increased by nearly 40 per cent between 2000 and 2005. At the point of purchase, our brains tend to conjure up visions of bucolic groves and we seek out the finest 'virgin' or 'first press' so as to ingest its health benefits. Global oil standoffs tend to involve crude rather than vegetable. But the latter may spark conflict one day. A quarter of all vegetable oil consumed is from soybean, with palm oil running a close second. Both types are charged with habitat loss, particularly deforestation and the dramatic decline of species. One in 10 common or garden products in the supermarket basket, from shampoo to ice cream, contains palm oil. But when it comes to cooking oil, olive is king. In the UK, sales increased by nearly 40 per cent between 2000 and 2005. At the point of purchase, our brains tend to conjure up visions of bucolic groves, and we seek out the finest 'virgin' or 'first press' so as to ingest its health benefits. However, given the size of the market and the industrialisation of olive farming, hillside groves are rare. More than four per cent of the EU's agricultural land is given over to olive farming, while 2.5 million producers make up a third of EU farmers. Until last year the famous Cap (Common Agricultural Policy) encouraged industrial farms to grow olives in larger quantities than ever by giving them subsidies. Water shortages, drought, soil erosion, and desertification and pollution from agrichemicals can be attributed to progressive industrialisation in olive farming across Mediterranean regions. Then there's the impact of the processing and disposal of liquid effluent from olive mills to contend with. Olive oil's audacious marketing and subsidies get the goat of British oilseed rape producers. Good-quality versions (with high omega 3 content) include Mellow Yellow, a cold-pressed rapeseed oil (farrington-oils.co.uk); Hillfarm oils (hillfarmoils.com), and virgin rapeseed oil from Oleifera, a farming cooperative in the Borders (oleifera.co.uk). This is not to say that rapeseed oil is the perfect ethical oil (that accolade goes to groundnut oils from developing communities): the vast majority of the 450,000 hectares of oilseed rape grown in the United Kingdom is winter grown, though spring-grown crops offer better habitat cover for wildlife and require less fertiliser. It would be nice to reinforce the message that homegrown products are valuable and that the more sustainable they become, the better. Taking aspirin on a regular basis can prevent liver damage which afflicts millions and can result from alcohol abuse, use of certain drugs and obesity-related disease, a study said Monday. "Many agents such as drugs and alcohol cause liver damage, and we have found two ways to block a central pathway responsible for such liver injury," said Wajahat Mehal, lead author of the Yale University study. "Our strategy is to use aspirin on a daily basis to prevent liver injury, but if it occurs, to use TLR antagonists (a class of molecules that block receptors known to activate inflammation) to treat it." The study, published in the Journal of Clinical Investigation, was conducted on mice. Mehal explained that drugs that have failed clinical trials and were not pursued due to their toxicity for the liver could be used if combined with aspirin. "This offers the exciting possibility of reducing a lot of pain and suffering in patients with liver diseases, using a new and very practical approach," said Mehal, an associate professor at the Section of Digestive Diseases and Department of Immunobiology of the Yale School of Medicine. The preventative benefits of aspirin to combat cardiovascular diseases and certain types of cancer are have already been studied and documented. Your key to better health: Diabetes is a common metabolic disorder in which the amount of glucose (sugar) in the blood is too high because the body is unable to use it properly. This is because the body's method of converting glucose into energy is not working as it should. There are two main types of diabetes: Type 1 Diabetes develops when most or all of the cells in the pancreas that produce insulin have been destroyed. People who develop diabetes under the age of 40, especially in childhood, usually have this type. It is treated with insulin injections and diet. Type 2 diabetes develops when the body can still produce some insulin, though not enough for its needs, or when the insulin that the body produces does not work properly. This type of diabetes usually appears in people over the age of 40. It is treated by diet alone, or by a combination of diet and tablets, or by a combination of diet and insulin injections. What are the symptoms of diabetes? The main symptoms of diabetes are: Type 2 Diabetes develops slowly and the symptoms are usually less severe. Some people may not notice any symptom at all and their diabetes is only picked up in a routine medical check up. Some people may put these symptoms down to 'getting older' or 'over work'. Although diabetes cannot be cured, it can be treated very successfully. Knowing why people with diabetes develop high blood glucose levels will help you understand how some of the treatments work. Type 1 Diabetes is treated by injections of insulin and a healthy diet. Type 2 Diabetes is treated by a healthy diet or by a combination of a healthy diet, exercise and medicine. Eventually people with Type 2 Diabetes may need insulin injections, although they are not totally 'dependent' on the insulin. A small but growing number of women with cancer in one breast are deciding to have the other one surgically removed to avoid the possibility that a tumor develops there in the future. Women diagnosed with cancer in one breast are at heightened risk for a tumor in the other breast as well, but doctors have struggled to determine which women are at highest risk of such an outcome. The United States needs to first modernize its food safety system before it decides whether to reorganize agencies that inspect and regulate food, Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said. Vilsack said he wants the USDA to focus meat inspection on prevention and containment of dangerous pathogens that cause food-borne illness. A British team has for the first time successfully used a new "test tube" fertilization technique that better predicts which of a woman's eggs will most likely result in pregnancy, a top fertility expert said on Monday. The treatment combines currently used prenatal screening with a new computer program that can scan the eggs for flaws in chromosomes that may lead to miscarriage. Children whose parents give them more free rein to roam are also more physically active, new research from the UK shows. Parents are becoming less and less likely to allow their children this kind of independence, Dr. Angie S. Page and her colleagues from the University of Bristol point out, and more research is needed on how to change the social and physical environment to allow parents to feel more comfortable giving their children more autonomy. Exposure to waste water does not appear to increase the risk of Helicobacter pylori infection, which is associated with ulcers and stomach cancer, or hepatitis E infection, the inflammation of the liver, a study in Swiss sewage workers shows. But the risks may be different in areas where people are more likely to be infected with H. pylori or more virulent forms of the hepatitis E virus, Dr. Philipp Hotz of the Med. Poliklinik USZ in Zurich and colleagues suggest. The new council of the SLMA The following are the members of the Sri Lanka Medical Associations New Council elected last week for this year. Dr. Dennis J. Aloysius has been chosen as the Past President representative of the SLMA in the Council. Dr. Aloysius is a member in our HealthWatch Medical Advisory Panel.



