Top 10 Chinese athletes in 2008

Following are the top 10 Chinese athletes in the year of 2008 selected by Xinhua News Agency on Tuesday:

1. Guo Jingjing (diving)

The 26-year-old retained the titles in the 3-meter springboard and synchronized springboard (with partner Wu Minxia) events at the Beijing Olympic Games, making her the most decorated female diver with six career medals in four Olympics.

2. Liu Zige (swimming)

Liu, 19, won China's only swimming gold medal in the Beijing Olympic Games. She broke the world record of the women's 200 meters butterfly en route to the Olympic champion.

3. Zhang Juanjuan

(archery)

Zhang, 27, broke one of the Olympics' tightest strangleholds by upsetting South Korean defending champion Park Sung-Hyun 110-109 to win China's first ever Olympic archery gold. South Korea had been unbeatable since 1984 in the women's individual event.

4. Zhang Yining

(table tennis)

The 26-year-old led the Chinese team to the women's team title at the Beijing Olympics and then successfully defended her singles crown, increasing her Olympic gold haul to four. She was also one of the members of China's winning team in the 49th world team championships.

5. Zhong Man (fencing)

The 25-year-old became China's first male Olympic fencing champion by winning the men's sabre individual event at the 2008 Beijing Olympic Games. He was also the first man from Asia to win a gold medal in the sport.

6. Zou Shiming (boxing)

China's first ever Olympic boxing champion. The 27-year-old won the 48kg gold on the last day's competition of the Beijing Olympic Games.

7. Yang Wei (gymnastics)

Yang, a member of the winning team in the 2000 Sydney Olympic Games, led China back to the top of the podium in Beijing, avenging their humiliating defeat in Athens four years ago. The 28-year-old went on to take the all-around gold.

8. Yin Jian (sailing)

China's first Olympic sailing gold medalist. Yin, 29, won the women's RS:X in the Beijing Olympics.

9. Du Jian

(Paralympic swimming)

The 24-year-old won China's first gold medal at the Beijing Paralympic Games. He went on to win another three gold in the men's S3 class.

10. Cering Wangmo

(mountaineering)

The 21-year-old Tibetan woman mountain climber was the last torch bearer who took the Olympic flame to the top of Mount Qomolangma, summit of world's highest mountain, on May 8.





