2010 Presidential Elections and `62 Coup-d'état - will history repeat?

An ambitious but untested politician, ex-military commander entering the fray at the Presidential stakes is a phenomenon this nation has not experienced in its eighty year old history of national elections. This surprise move by Sarath Fonseka (SF) who is already facing corruption charges levelled against him has confused even the politically mature citizens, let alone the average voter and the man on the street.

However, making a comprehensive assessment of a future Sri Lanka under an Executive President in the calibre of SF, who has amply demonstrated his political immaturity, naivety and malleability, within a short spell of four-week campaign, is not much of a difficult task.

It would be interesting to note many parallels between the above and Madam Sirimavo Bandaranaike`s first premiership of 60-65, when some top brass of Armed Forces and Police conspired to overthrow her democratically elected Government and set up a military junta. The infamous Coup-d'e-tat of 1962. This failed attempt and Fonsaka's, entry. the former, an armed coup by service/forces top rankers, while the latter a political conspiracy by a bunch of rejected, bankrupt politicians backed by interested foreign elements who capitalize on such situations for achieving their own goals.

Let`s compare and contrast the similarities of the two eventualities. The 62` coup-d'e-tat was staged by a few military leaders, who lost the privileges they enjoyed from the days of the British colonial masters, after the change of regime in mid-fifties for the purpose of regaining lost pedestal, whereas in 2010 Presidential Elections we have a person in SF, driven by hatred, egocentric leanings and feeling inadequately recognized after failing to win his demand for an unprecedented and overall commanding position over all Armed Forces.

The 62` plotters had among them a very senior civil servant of the day, as the co-brain child of the coup, and also received the blessings of two unsuspecting and gullible former Prime Ministers, who were made to believe that it was a "forum" including one of them, the current PM, a few top military and civil administrators who will run the country as planned, until "democracy is restored." This is exactly what today`s promoters of SF are trying to inculcate in the minds of voters. "TO RESTORE DEMOCRACY"

In 1962 the Ex PM`s were convinced due to certain remarks and public utterances made by the powerful young minister Felix Dias Bandaranaike (FDB), a nephew and trusted lieutenant of the PM, who the opposition alleged was planning to set up an authoritarian rule, a situation somewhat similar to the chargers levelled against President Mahinda Rajapaksa by the political chums of SF.

This same FDB was responsible for successfully defeating the attempt in 62. Coming back to our main actor, SF a political amateur who is surrounded by a power thirsty , hate and revenge driven "circle of advisers" who earlier vilified , ridiculed and demoralized him at the most critical stages of the war, now successful in convincing the disgruntled Retd General, who lacked sufficient experience, to believe that he fits the vacuum created by "rejects" in the likes of Ranil & Somawanse, to contest as common candidate against the extremely popular, experienced and " politically tempered" incumbent and defeat him and take over the reigns as executive President.

There is an apparent success in his run up for presidency mainly due to the misbelieve of our people who think a " change "will always bring prosperity to the nation . This trend and lack of foresight on the part of average voter and all conspiracies will be defeated by the majority repeating history the same way FDB thwarted and crushed the ` 62 coup. The unpatriotic gang of conspirators, their co-horts and the poor General will be dumped in history`s dustbin by the intelligent voter in 2010 . History will repeat.





