Online edition of Daily News - Lakehouse NewspapersIPL - is it worth the risk? If the terrorist attack on the hapless Sri Lankan cricketers in Lahore, Pakistan is an indication, then all sports will have to take the utmost caution and security in the future. One thought that the senseless attack on the Israeli athletes in Munich, Germany during the 1972 Olympics which killed many, was the last of sportsmen being targeted. But apparently it is not so. Sport, especially cricket in the sub-continent is sure to go through hard times, before the dust finally settles and the game is to resume again. Sad when one thinks of the damage done to the time honoured game of cricket. At the moment a lot of cricket is being played away from the sub continent. Australia are the hosts of South Africa, Indians are the hosts of New Zealand and the West Indies are having as their guests England. Once these Tests are over, the next thing in the cricketing calendar is the Indian Premier League which is due to start next month. The IPL is the money rich game and the offers are too tempting for cricketers to say no. The organisers of the IPL are very keen to see that the tournament is not derailed and are promising the best of security to the players who will figure in the tourney. It is said that health is wealth. And the cricketers who have signed up to provide the action would better watch out. Wealth is not everything. It is better to stay alive rather than risk life and limb for money. Several leading Sri Lankan cricketers are obliged to play in the IPL, having signed for three years. But the million dollar question is: Can the organisers of the IPL provide water tight security for the players? The organisers can promise. But this being a private fling are the organisers well equipped to see to the safety of those figuring in the tourney? The tour is slated to run for well over a month and those entrusted with providing security would be tested to the maximum. Although the IPL has the blessings of the International Cricket Council, the tourney does not see countries participating, but only individuals and so anything unforseen happening, the respective cricket boards and the countries could not be held responsible. The participants are playing at their own risk. And is the risk worth it, one might ask. But then isn't it said that money is the root of all evil and so the temptation for the cricketers to participate. The organisers of the IPL are promising mind-boggling money. But can money buy the security that a high risk tournament like this requires? Well the answers would be known only after the tournament. The Sri Lankan cricketers who are still to recover from the trauma that was their life threatening attack by terrorists in Lahore, Pakistan must still be thanking the almighty for saving their lives. What they now need is the correct counselling to forget what might have been and get back into their cricketing togs and play the game and get back their winning habits. In the First Test against Pakistan and in the Second Test till it had to be aborted after the terrorists attack the Lankans led admirably by Mahela Jayawardena had the better of the exchanges. Most outstanding was right hander Thilan Samaraweera who hit back to back double hundreds which is no mean feat against a strong Pakistani attack. We have queried as to why he has not been given a go in the limited overs game? The other day Kumar Sangakkara went on record saying that Samaraweera must be given a go in the limited overs game. We hope that Samaraweera who suffered most in the attack will have a quick recovery and take his stance at the wicket. It is nice to see the Australians getting back their wining ways in the Test matches against South Africa in Protealand and winning the First Test and having the better of the exchanges in the Second Test at the time of writing which is the third day. After their defeats in Kangaroo land, not many fancied the Aussies to rebound in SA. But the Aussies led determinedly by Ricky Ponting are calling the shots. They have some young and talented cricketers in left handed opener Philip Hughes who became the youngest batsman to hit twin hundreds and lower West Indian George Headley's record. Another stylish left hander Marcus North with strokes all-round the wicket and with a high back lift reminiscent of that great batsman Brian Lara, medium paced right arm bowlers in Andrew McDonald and ben Hilfenhus who can move the ball both ways and Mitchel Johnson a left arm pacie who can knock the best of batsmen out. In the ongoing Test and on the first day the wicket in Durban looked a placid one. But on the second day it played up and afforded the South African pacemen a lot of bounce and did they knock out the opposing batsmen with some life threatening short pitched bowling. In reply the Aussie pacies Mitchell Johnson, Peter Siddle, Ben Hilfenhaus and Andrew McDonald gave as good as they got with Johnson breaking the finger of captain Greame Smith and putting him out of action for the rest of the series. The incessant short pitched bowling which saw batsmen being hit and some ducking for dear life brought back memories of the bodyline era which was given life by the Englishmen led by Douglas Jardine in an endeavour to stall that run making machine Sir Donald Bradman. The England batsmen led by captain Andrew Strauss too are having a good run scoring heavily against the West Indies in the Caribbean. But the same cannot be said about their bowlers. If how Australia and England are performing is an indication, then the ashes series that would begin soon should be one of the best contested in the annals of this series. Andrew Strauss has been reeling off centuries with consummate ease.



