Online edition of Daily News - Lakehouse NewspapersIronically, it was not the blacks who elected Mr. Obama as President of United States of America, but blue collar whites, and that's interesting. American working class whether they are white or black, are no longer colour blind, as they have to face the economic reality. So America is transforming itself to a new nation. This is the political reality of democracy. Democracy which has become a curse in Africa and in some parts of Asia has rescued America from a total disaster. But then economic damage has been done and America is nothing more than a Rambo with a big machine gun without bullets. It should be remembered that Obama is not part of the solution, but part of the problem and symptom of a complex problem that America is faced with. Anyone who could provide hope and change could become a saviour of the nation. In fact it is the white nation that black Obama man is trying to save. So the prophecy of Chief Seattle is becoming true "We may be brothers after all, we will see." Obama has many challenges in front of him, in fact he has to think as a white working class man in black clothing to overcome most of the challenges. His economic challenges are fundamental in nature and changing those fundamentals would not be easy and could carry heavy political risks. Although the President is being selected by the majority, real economic powers in America are being shared by few families, both white and black. This was why writer mentioned, "This is the first time that America is facing the reality of democracy." All these years democracy was superficial, as Government did not represent the majority (Majority was not keen to vote as it would not make a difference). Now since the majority can not find their ends meet with their income, have woken up from the hibernation. Guardian angels of the nation have run away with the cash box, the happy hour is over. There would be a clash of Democracy and Capitalism in years to come, and this would be the acid test for the Obama administration. Soon it will be known to public that whether it is black president or white president, it will make no difference in "White house". Slogans such as "Hope and change" would become mere words unless people are willing to make fundamental changes in their life style and economic thinking. This is the irony of Democracy, majority always want a magic solutions, not sacrifices and changes in their life style. They like to hear what they need from their leaders, but when it comes to action they expect everything from the Government. Democracy is probably the worst form of Government to fix a problem, but one of the best systems to identify a problem, before it becomes a too bigger problem. Sadly in this case it has become a too bigger problem already, and symptomatic treatments will not heal the patient. America has become too expensive place for everything. Their labour costs are so high (in spite cheap Latino labour in South), their medical expenses are beyond the reach of common people and their dreams are too expensive and unrealistic. They have shot them self in the foot, over and over and again in pursuit of a great dream. This was very well reflected in their sub prime mortgage crisis. When they were exposed to market reality, they realised that they have artificially inflated the house values, based on their perceptions and greed. If you are to believe that political leadership will give a doze of reality to its people, then you are living in a fool's paradise. Instead they will try to say things that people would like to hear, ignoring the real problem. Just as much as Kings used religion to control people, politicians will use promises to control people under democracy, during their tenure in office. And once they are voted out of office, it becomes someone else's problem. So the problem gets magnified while politicians change the baton and party goes on. But having said this, America has a 2nd chance of correcting her mistakes under Obama. This is a unique opportunity for Americans to forget the glory of their past and start all over again with a more realistic vision. They do not have to be a super power to in the eyes of the world and live on burrowed money. They must realise that they are not dealing with Red Indians any more, now they are dealing with a yellow race whose heart beat is nothing, but money. To put this in perspective, Red Indians were nothing but bunch of nature lovers, Russians were nothing but bunch of ideological hypocrites, Japanese were intelligent robots, but this Yellow race is different and they are like parasites. To get rid of them would not be that easy, as they could provide cheap labour, cheap money and false sense of security. Yet, how could one teach a person who has been spending 10,000 Dollars per month to live with 1000 dollars per month, who will do this? I am not sure whether politicians would risk their carrier to do this; instead they will print more money and give 20,000 dollars as if they are giving from it from their own pocket. These are the nature of challenges that America is facing now and black man in white house has to deal with it sooner or later.



