Online edition of Daily News - Lakehouse NewspapersSri Lanka is a growing market and Kuwait Airways will make further investments to meet the projected demand, said Chairman Kuwait Airways, Mohamed Salah. 

 Chairman, Kuwait Airways, Chairman, Mohamed Salah with Senior Manager Sri Lanka and the Maldives, Dherar Al Nassar and District Sales Manager, Kuwait Airways, Sudesh Abeysinghe are seen in discussion. - Picture by Shirajiv Sirimane In an exclusive interview to the Daily News Business he said that this was one reason for the airline to operate uninterrupted frequencies to Sri Lanka for 41 years making it one of the first carries to fly to Colombo. "Like any other destination Sri Lanka too has gone through many bad patches but the country today is moving towards resilience". Under whatever circumstance the airline never interrupted its services to Colombo," he said. He said that they now have decided to add the fifth frequency to Colombo this year. "We have observed that current seat factor is not adequate to meet the demand," he said. The passengers have now realized that though Kuwait airfares are the lowest the service has not been compromised. It's also no longer an airline to carry domestic workers, Chairman said. "One reason for us to add an additional frequency to Colombo while most of the other airlines are shutting down destinations due to global recession, is because of the new student, tourist and transit market that is emerging," he said. The connections offered to London and beyond from Kuwait are the chief reason to this new market. "The airline is hoping to reschedule some of its flights next winter giving better connections to Sri Lankan passengers," he said. Salah who was previously the airline's engineering director, said that recent promotions launched in Kuwait by Sri Lanka Tourism and Tourism Deputy Minister, Faiser Mustapha are also slowly opening up a tourism market for Sri Lanka, he said. Asked to comment on the proposed move to privatize the airline in two years he said that the government seriously looking at this and will offer 35 percent stake to the private sector, 40 percent to the public, keeping 20 percent with the government. The airline will be purchasing six aircraft this year and would be adding new destinations to Australia, China, Singapore, South Africa and North America. In addition the frequency to present destinations too would be increased. Commenting on the future of the aviation industry he said that the aviation in the Gulf region would not be affected since people in the region are rich. "However in the other regions there would be a further dip in the industry," he said.



