Online edition of Daily News - Lakehouse Newspapers'Women and men united to end violence against women and girls': Violence against women and gender equality is in the news with the celebrations of the International Women's Day on March 8. Although it is woman who give birth to our world, gender discrimination still exists even in the developed West. However women have come a long way since the world marked its first International Women's Day in 1911. Although women have already proved their talents in almost all the professions where men dominated earlier, they suffer silently in many societies both at domestic and social levels. However, Sri Lanka being a developing country can be proud of producing the first woman Prime Minister in the world Ms. Sirimavo Bandaranaike. The United Nation's office in Sri Lanka celebrated the International Women's Day 2009 on the global theme 'Women and men united to end violence against women and girls' at a function held in Colombo on March 6. The launch of the docu-drama 'Beating violence: Making a difference' and songs 'Bruises' and 'No one would believe' also took place at the event. A panel discussion on 'Women and men united to end violence against women and girls' was a success with lot of interaction with the audience both women and men representing various professions and organisations. The panel comprised Prof. Savithri Goonesekere, Emeritus Professor of Law and former Vice Chancellor of the University of Colombo, Additional Solicitor General Palitha Fernando, Additional JMO, Colombo Dr. Ajith Tennekoon and Kaushalya Perera from Women's Support Group. The moderator was Dr. Deepika Udagama, Senior Lecturer, Faculty of Law, University of Colombo. It was highlighted that violence against women is also linked to the spread of HIV/AIDS. Women and girls are systematically and deliberately subject to rape and sexual violence in war. Death, injury, medical costs and loss of employment are the tip of the ice berg. There are many victims of rape who bear the trauma throughout their lives due to fear of stigma and denial of social opportunities. Far too often, crimes go unpunished and perpetrators walk free. No country, no culture, no woman, young or old is immune. It is positive development that increasingly, men, too, are speaking out against this stain in our society. "Women and men should be united end violence against women. Domestic violence is hidden in Sri Lanka. Women and girls should be able to live in dignity", stressed Prof. Goonesekere. We must strengthen the legal system. This is the only way to have a fair trial when dealing with perpetrators. At community workshops, men should advice other men that the 'real men don't hit women'. Additional Solicitor General Palitha Fernando Said. "Changing mindsets and the habits of generations is not easy. It must involve all of us individuals, organisations and Governments. Together we can make a difference." We must always work together and state loud and clear that violence against women will not be tolerated, in any form, in any context, in any circumstance. We need laws that hold perpetrators accountable and enforced. The Company in fulfilling its role as an employer should recognise that an employee has a right to dignity at the work place which calls for mutual respect and consideration. It is the responsibility of the company towards its employees to provide, ensure and maintain a conducive working environment free from any kind of harassment particularly of a sexual nature. The right to work with dignity is a fundamental human right. The right to work with dignity requires respect for one another and to behave with consideration towards each other. Let us all, resolve to make a difference. On this International Women's Day, let us take time to reflect on progress made, to call for change and to celebrate acts of courage and determination by ordinary women who have played an extraordinary role in ending violence against women and girls. We also urge all persons in positions of power and authority to ensure that machanisms are in place to promote an end to violence against women. Together change is possible and change will come if we are in solidarity to end violence against women and girls. The Domestic Violence Act and Ragging Act is important in addressing violence agaist women and girls issue. Prof. Savithri Goonesekere ending the discussion said, "Basically relief should reach out to the victims. The media has a major role to play and they should not glamourize these harrowing stories specially in advertisements. We all should try to change the attitude of society to positive thinking". However, women should not be taken note of only on International Women's Day but throughout the year they should be given every opportunity to live with dignity in society. Then only will the Women's Day celebrations become meaningful.



