Online edition of Daily News - Lakehouse NewspapersBe a part of 'building up the paradise island', as the Maldives Construction Fair 2009 rolls out for the fourth consecutive year this April, from 20 to 22 at the Dharubaaruge Exhibition Hall, Male. Showcasing innovative trends in interior design, architecture, building construction and engineering, this exhibition is designed to provide a common arena for the business community to exhibit their services and products. 

 Director SAES, Imran Hassan and President Mohamed Janah at the event. Picture by Saliya Rupasinghe The MCF 2009 will also help to develop and create awareness on how the Maldivian construction industry works. "The choice of holding a construction fair in the Maldives continues to be the best choice," said Director, South Asia Exhibition Services, (SAES) Imran Hassan. "As the Maldives was chosen as the 'Indian Ocean's Leading Destination' at the World Travel Awards 2008, several new islands are under construction in the Maldives along with major infrastructure projects underway as well", he said Organized by the Maldives Exhibition and Conference Services in association with the Maldives Association of Construction Industry, this year's Fair will wow audiences with the latest products and services in the market. Over 4000 Trade/Business visitors are expected to visit the Maldives Construction Fair 2009, surpassing the 3127 visited in 2008. The visitors will include agents, distributors, contractors, manufacturers, engineers, architects and interior designers, building and construction industry personnel and general public. MCF 2008 consisted of 60 exhibitors from Sri Lanka, Malaysia, India as well as Maldives. The Construction Fair this year is quite aptly timed, as several large scale infrastructure and construction projects are underway. Forty plus islands in the Maldives are under development while ten new regional airports are also part of the greater scheme of things. A few large scale construction projects on the cards include the Hospital and Nursing Home Facility, regional airports and associated resort hotels, international hospital, marina, medical college, and an arts and cultural centre. The introduction of tourism into the Maldives was the turning point in its construction industry. It led to first-time buildings being designed and built to suit the needs of tourists. The rapid growth of the tourism sector in the 1980s compelled building owners to improve the standards used in construction. It inspired developers to explore the use of new building materials and innovative construction methods. Today, prefabricated timber houses imported from as far as New Zealand is a common method used in tourist resort construction.



