Commitment brought victories, says PM

Our gallant Forces secured victory after victory due to their commitment to defeat the terrorists, said Prime Minister Ratnasiri Wickramanayaka.

The Premier was addressing a public rally at the Galgamuwa U.B. Wanninayake Grounds in support of the UPFA candidates contesting the Wayamba Provincial Council elections.

The Prime Minister said when there is terrorism, there is no democracy. Terrorism is sans friends, sans enemies. It assassinates its near and dear as well. Terrorists are being rounded up. They have been cornered to a narrow stretch. Our Forces have thrown a security dragnet so as to seal all escape routes.

What is significant is that whilst being engaged in a war to defeat terrorism, the Government has given top priority for development efforts, to bring the development to the periphery.

"We should defend our Motherland. We have to harness all Forces at our disposal to the task of annihilating terrorism and instal democracy," the Prime Minister stressed.

Agriculture Development Minister, Hemakumara Nanayakkara said, international conspirators came to Sri Lanka in the guise of relief workers and religious preachers. They were all Tiger agents. Aeronautical engineers too arrived masquerading as 'good samaritans' and constructed airstrips to the LTTE.

They also provided the expertise to manufacture fast seacraft, claymore bombs etc. Unfortunately these foreign operatives had their 'fifth columnists' as well.

President Mahinda Rajapaksa who as Head of State was resolute in weeding out the terrorist menace from this country. He answered the terrorists in the language they could understand the Prime Minister pointed out.

Environment and Natural Resources Minister, Patali Champika Ranawaka said, because of the dismal situation the country faced all national forces began to rally round President Mahinda Rajapaksa.

The humanitarian operation started from Mavilaru proved to the world the so-called 'invincible' Tigers could be humbled into submission. Massive development programmes would be launched in the North and the East, followed by resettlement of families.

Today all citizens have the freedom to visit any part of the country. Around 100,000 acres in the East have been redeveloped.

Soon an election will also be held in the North as we do in Wayamba today. We are certain that the UPFA will be victorious.

National Freedom Front President Wimal Weerawansa said we are confident that our valiant Forces will totally eradicate terrorism from this country and leave us the legacy of a free and fair society. All those who left the country due to fear of terrorism could now return.

It is because of the judicious decisions made by the voters at the 2005. Presidential Election that the country is back at the right track. Had the Opposition been voted to power, the country would have been bifurcated by now. We are committed to enure the victory of the UPFA at the election to be held on February 14, he said.





