The stocks of teak timber worth Rs. 300,000 were seized at a random checkpoint at 49th mile post along Padiyathalawa-Mahiyangana road.

Badur Mowlood Majils

The recital of Badur Mawlood, will be conducted by Alhaj Moulavi M. N. M. Fardhy and Alhaj Moulavi A. B. M. Mubarak from January 21 after Magrib prayers and will continue until Isha prayers at the Nawala Jummah Mosque.

Book release

The Office Systems and Practice written by Youth Empowerment and Socio-Economic Development Ministry Secretary A. H. Gamage will be released at the SLIDA today at 3.30 p.m. Public Administration and Home Affairs Ministry Secretary D. Dassanayake will chair while SLIDA's Post Graduate Institute Chief adviser T. Tilakasiri will deliver the keynote address.

These lectures will continue every Poya day in English by Islamic scholars, mainly catering to English speaking Muslim in Sri Lanka.

Buddhist talk in English

Professor Bobby Dias will deliver a Buddhist talk in English on 'The Anatomical and Physiological basis underlying Vipassana Bhavana' at a meeting of the Servants of the Buddha Society on January 23 at 4.30 p.m. at Maitri Hall, Lauries Road, Bambalapitiya.

Ananda Balika 85th anniversary

Several events will be held to mark the 85th anniversary of Ananda Balika Vidyalaya, Colombo 10.

The annual Pirith Chanting and almsigiving in memory of the schools founders will be held on February 22 and 28. The Ananda Balika walk will be held on February 6. contact 0717778677.

The handing over of three storeyed hostel building for students will be held in February.

The Naada Sithuwili art festival will be held in June.

Opening of treatment room, rest hall

The Mihidum Uyana Wedihiti Sarana Trust Board, which manages the Mihidum Uyana Elders' Home at No. 100A, Batawala, Padukka, have taken steps to add a medical treatment room and a rest hall to the home.

The newly constructed facilities will be opened on January 24 at 10.00 a.m.

Prayers and Religious lectures

Prayers and religious lectures will commence on January 24. Rathibathul Jalaliya will by Moulavi A. B. M. Mubarak and Y. M. Rafi. It will be conducted after Magrib prayers and continue until Isha prayers at the Nawala Jummah Mosque.

A religious lecture will also be conducted by Dr. P. C. Pakkeer Jaufar.

Minister pays last respects

Rural Industries and Self-Employment Promotion Deputy Minister S B Nawinna paid his last respects to Dhammika Herath who was killed in a shooting during the current presidential election campaign at Ambaka-dawara in Wariyapola recently.

The Miniter expressed his deep condolence to the bereaved family members on behalf of the government.

New housing complex

The new housing complex (flats) built at Dematagoda for the benefit of shanty dwellers evicted from Slave Island was opened by Urban Development and Sacred Area Development Minister Dinesh Gunawardena on January 17. Initially keys of 320 houses built under the first stage of this scheme were handed over to the beneficiaries by Minister Gunawardena.

Addressing the gathering at the opening ceremony Gunawardena said this was another step forward in the Mahinda Chinthana program of ensuring shelter to each and every family in this country.

Help save her life

K.M. Thilini Kaushalya (15) of No. 44, Baddegama, Walgama, Matara in suffering from a hole in the heart atrial septal defect. Consultant cardiologist Dr. M.R. Mubarak has recommended a surgery to correct the defect and save her life. The surgery is estimated to cost Rs 175,000. aushalya's mother B.P. Nilmini says she is unable to foot this bill due to their present financial plight. She the public to assist her daughter's cause by sending whatever financial contributions possible. All contributions should be remitted to A/C No. 207-055952-3 at the People's Bank, Weligama branch.

Donation

A ceremony to provide school books and other requirements to the students of the Kegalle Devalegama Kandegedera Kanishta Vidyalaya was held on January 16 at the school premises. It was organized by the Dehiwala Navagalvihara Seelasamadhi Committee, Methsith Foundation and the Lions Club.





