Computer is a good tool for Language Teaching

Lionel Wijesiri

According to the findings of the Department of Census and Statistics, the current computer literacy rate in Sri Lanka is 20.3 percent and has shown over 25 percent increase from 16.1 percent reported in 2006/07.

Compared with our neighbours, this is a good achievement. It is said that the establishment of 579 Nenasalas and 2,500 IT labs in schools, has been reasonably instrumental for this increase.

Students at computer class

However Head of Microsoft Sri Lanka Sriyan de Silva Wijeyeratne thinks that with this level of literacy we are not going to build a vibrant knowledge based IT ecosystem.

He says, "Fewer than 20 percent of Lanka's 9,700 schools have IT labs. If we don't address this we will have another six or seven generations of students coming out who are IT illiterate. We can't afford that."

Causes

Most experts believe that the lack of emphasis on English Language in local schools may be one of the causes of weak Information Technology (IT) adoption in Sri Lanka. There is an element of truth in this argument.

An absence of adequate English skills can prove to be a psychological barrier stopping people from even accessing knowledge via resources such as the Internet.

Sunimal Fernando, Presidential Advisor, agrees. He said recently that English and IT skills are basically two sides of the same coin, both are needed to access opportunity in this day and age.

For many years, English language teachers in the developed world have used the computer to provide supplemental exercises. In recent years, advances in computer technology have motivated teachers to reassess the computer access and consider it a valuable part of daily English language learning.

Innovative software programs, authoring capabilities, compact disk technology and elaborate computer networks are providing teachers with new methods of incorporating culture, grammar and real language use in the classroom while students gain access to audio, visual and textual information about the language and the culture of its speakers.

There are a number of advantages of Computer Assisted Language Learning (CALL) programs. First, the users (students) can study and learn their language alone or individually with no help of their designer (teacher).

It is due to the fact that the self-access CALL program has the complete instruction, feedback, and evaluation. Second, the users can make their own decisions to develop a selective reading habit which enables them to scan a lot.

Third, CALL offers freedom for users to choose any topic of information available within the package. Fourth, Learning achievement can be increased up to 50 percent because of the CALL. Fifth, CALL is very flexible in time.

It gives the students opportunities to determine what particular topics and how long he wants to learn. Hence, when the students miss the class because of some reasons, they still have an opportunity to learn the particular topic taught in the classroom as far as the topic is available in the CALL program.

A number of studies have been done concerning how the use of CALL effects the development of language learners' four skills (listening, speaking, reading and writing). Most report significant gains in reading and listening and most programs are geared toward these receptive skills because of the current state of computer technology.

The current CALL technology, even with its current limitations, has gained much recognition in Far East Asia for the development of speaking abilities.

In those countries there has been visible success in using these programs, in particular computer-mediated communication, to help speaking skills closely linked to communicative competence (ability to engage in meaningful conversation in the target language) and provide controlled interactive speaking practice outside the classroom.

Others

In addition to Computer Assisted Language Learning, there are a number of other innovative and interactive programs being developed for teaching English. Simulation programs, while reinforcing grammar points, present students with real-life situations in which they learn about the culture of a country and the protocol for various situations.

For example, encyclopedia-type programs are information programs that allow students to conduct research in the target language.

In addition to their individual programs, computers linked together in networks are expanding the way we teach and learn foreign languages. Local area networks (LAN) are computers linked together by cables in a classroom, lab, or building.

They offer teachers a novel approach for creating new activities for students that provide more time and experience with the target language. Certain LAN setups allow students and teachers to correspond with each other via computer or to conduct collaborative writing activities in the target language. Exercises on such a system enable students and teachers to communicate back and forth.

Students can also engage in cooperative writing exercises, conversations in the target language, and problem-solving exercises. Teachers can observe students' activities and progress and make comments to individual students from a teacher station similar to that found in an audio lab.

Expanding the unique capabilities of the LAN, long distance networks - or computers linked together across long distances - facilitates communication with students throughout the country and abroad.

Computers can communicate across thousands of miles via modems and phone lines using telecommunications software. Communication abroad allows for direct interaction with native speakers. For example, commercial network services such as Minitel and teletext allow students to correspond in their own language with native speakers in Europe.

Another program - Compact disk technology, has many uses in foreign language education, including information retrieval, interactive audio and interactive multimedia programs.

The compact disk - read only memory (CD/DVD-ROM) allows huge amounts of information to be stored on one disk with quick access to the information.

In recent years, many foreign language computer programs have been put on compact disks and students and teachers can access information quickly and efficiently for use in and out of the classroom.

Digitized sound

A new dimension has been added to many of these programs - digitized sound. Compact disks that use digitized sound offer quick random access to information as well as superior sound quality.

This software has a program disk and various language disks that contain the digitized speech. With such programs, students are able to hear the pronunciation of a phrase, a word, or even a syllable or sound and then record their own voice following the example. The students can then listen to the original recording, as well as their own, and compare the two.

They can record their own voices again and compare the two until they feel their pronunciation has improved or is correct. While digitized sound is far superior to tape recorded sound, the space needed to store digitized sound is relatively large. However, continuing advances in CD/DVD-ROM technology will alleviate the space limitations.

The most recent advance in CD technology is the development of the CD-I (compact disk - interactive). This technology includes digitized sound, compressed video, animation, and possibly text to create a multimedia platform for interactive programs.

While this technology is still developing, the Phillips Corporation has recently made the CD-I available on the commercial market. Because Sega Genesis has already put CD-I on the home video game market, the advent of CD-I educational technology has begun.

In terms of the wider picture of language teaching and learning, it is unfortunate that we in Sri Lanka have not understood that computers are wonderful resources in language teaching and learning. We use them most of the time as sophisticated typewriters, allowing learners to write and to correct and amend easily and effectively.

Although many young learners seem to be much more familiar with the use of computers than a lot of teachers appear to be, there is still plenty of scope for some input in class related to computers. It is time we think about this issue seriously.





