Reaching the last bastion of the LTTE

In the face of intensive military onslaught today, the LTTE leader Prabhakaran has taken refuge within the confines of Mulaitivu area, taking innocent people as human shields.

At this stage, it is highly appropriate to ponder awhile as to whose liberation this so-called leader had attempted to mislead the entire world in the past. If his sole motive was to liberate the Tamil people, he would never have heaped so much of hardship on them as now. He could have easily come forward and fought face to face with the forces instead. During the past few weeks, these captive civilians have freed themselves from the LTTE clutches in large numbers and entered into Government held areas to ensure safety for their dear lives.

In the Eastern Province too, the LTTE fought the forces with innocent Tamils as shields but had to eat the humble pie in the end. There too the innocent civilians took refuge in Government held areas. They are now enjoying the benefits from the freedom prevailing in the East.

Incidence of civilian exodus from conflict zone in the North is on the increase during the past few weeks. This included 26 civilians from Kilinochchi on January 12 followed by 86 civilians in two batches from across Elephant Pass the following day.

There was a record 874 civilians influx into Government held areas on January 14 from Kilinochchi, Mulaitivu and Jaffna (Kevil area). They had undergone immense hardships before they surrendered to the forces of 55th Division stationed there.

There was also a mass exodus of trapped civilians numbering 1065 who reached Government held areas on January 14 and 15. They have surrendered to security forces at Kevil area (Jaffna), Puliyan Kokkarai and also at Ramenedapuram in the North.

In the face of defeat

Our security forces have already captured several vital areas from the LTTE and are on the successful march towards encircling the last bastion of the LTTE very soon in this process.

The 59th Division was able to wrest control of Mulliawalai and Thannirutru hospital area west of Mullativu on January 12. LTTE had used this hospital not only for treating their injured cadres but also for their military operations as was evident from the number of bunkers in the premises.

Security forces stepped up their operations by capturing a LTTE training camp and another airstrip on January 14. This airstrip is 50 metres wide and 1000 metres in length. This was followed by capturing Chundikulam area a very vital Sea-tiger base in the North. Security forces were thus able to ensure the control of the entire Jaffna peninsula with this prized capture of the navy base. By January 15, 58th Division were able to capture another vital place named Dharmapuram village.

Air strike

Air Force too continues to play a major role by spotting Tiger targets and hitting them with precision censing immense damage to LTTE positions.

Air Force launched an air attack on an LTTE meeting place at a location 3 kilometres west to Mulaitivu on January 13 followed by a very successful attack on two LTTE artillery positions near Chundikulam lagoon area. Entrapped civilians whom the LTTE has used as human shields are beginning to extricate themselves from their so-called leader's clutches.





