Industrial Park in Kadawatha

Eight companies start business ventures:

Sanjeevi Jayasuriya

Development is rapidly progressing in Sri Lanka and the country is in the process of transition to become an industrial country. It has a trainable workforce and the quality is on par with the international standards, Flinth Industrial Park. Chairman Rune Flinth said at the inauguration of Flinth Industrial Park at the Ranmuthugala Estate at Kadawatha.

Chairman Rune Flinth

BOI Chairman/DG Dhammika Perera

The Park was set up with an investment of US $ 10 million and eight companies have started business ventures with plans to increase the number in future.

"The GSP+ uncertainty will not affect our businesses and we are confident that we could move forward and continue in the same way. Although there has no second line of defence, we will take the risk and work accordingly," Flinth said.

"We have provided vocational training for over 1,000 youth and satisfied with their performance. The quality and the standard of the workforce have created new opportunities.

The industrial park would create best ambience for different companies to progress and realize their dreams", he said.

The country has the potential to attract investment even under trying conditions and Board of Investment (BOI) supported projects embodies every essence of quality.

These foreign ventures would facilitate technical transfers that enable the country to have access to technological advancement and innovation, BOI Chairman/Director General Dhammika Perera said. The BOI is assisting the country in its new industrial age. The state-of-the-art production and manufacturing processes would pave the way for this industrialization.

The foreign investment on this industrial park will enhance the capabilities and generate over 2,000 employment opportunities.

There is a demand for high quality labour and this is a boost for the country's talent pool, he said.

"Economic development will take off with ventures of this nature where high technology is involved. The BOI will work closely with the investor community to attract more investments in to the country," he said.

The 10 acre industrial park has been designed in keeping with the environment requirements and offers world class production facilities for companies.





