'Maapil Balakaya' will be defeated - Minister

Nadira Gunatilleke

President Mahinda Rajapaksa will defeat the Presidential Candidate of the Opposition, `Maapil Balakaya', Monkies who spread rumours and the puppetry monkies who dance according to the tune of vicious foreign elements. The Sri Lankan public will not let these elements which suffer from convulsion to defeat the President, Healthcare and Nutrition Minister Nimal Siripala De Silva said.

Addressing the gathering after launching the construction work of the new accident unit of the Ratnapura Teaching Hospital, Minister De Silva said that part of the `rumour Force' is within the health sector and they spread rumours on 'drug shortages', etc. No patients in the country have died so far due to a drug shortage.

Minister De Silva said, whenever massive hospitals are constructed by the Government, a group calling themselves 'Surekeeme Sanvidhanaya' comes and take the ownership of the hospital. The thieves in these so called 'organisations' have never given even a paracetamol to patients so far. If the Government can construct hospitals and provide other facilities, worth in the billions it is capable of protecting those facilities and does not need the help of any other organization to do so.

Minister De Silva pointed out that the Government has taken steps to identify these snakes who spread rumours and bring them to book.

They get on to public transport and spread rumours for a payment of Rs.2000 and a bottle of arrack. The snakes cannot be allowed to play with the lives of the people.

All the killer forces have now got together to defeat the leader who rescued the people from terrorism. It was possible for President Mahinda Rajapaksa to continue the war for another decade but he did not do it and did not take political advantages.

But the elements which continuously sling mud on the President during his effort to eradicate terrorism have now joined hands. Elements such as Kola Koti, Kaha Balallu, Maapillu which shook the country in the past have joined hands today, the Minister added.





