Pragmatic optimism, but not a bed of roses

We begin the New Year in a spirit of pragmatic optimism. It is however not going to be a bed of roses.

Sri Lanka was projected to record an economic growth rate of six per cent in 2008, having had a growth of 6.3 per cent in the third quarter.

There was significant growth in Agriculture (12.4 pc), Industrial (5.6 pc) and Services (5.5pc) sectors, the overall growth for the period being 6.5 per cent.

According to the Central Bank, the declining trend in year on inflation continued into November, down to 16.3 per cent, as compared to 20.2 in October.

Growth in broad money supply decelerated to 9.8 pc by end October 2008 as against 16.6 pc at year's end 2007.

Giving impetus to our efforts to continue on the road to progress is welcome news from the World Bank, which states in its annual report for 2008 that emerging economic development in South Asia is propelling Sri Lanka into the middle income status.

India, Bhutan and Maldives are the two other countries which are moving up. The encouraging news contained in the World Bank report gives us confidence to continue ploughing our way forward despite the global recession, which according to financial analysts, will not have too big an impact on our economy due to the fact that a small country such as Sri Lanka with quite a strong agricultural base, is less susceptible to the vagaries of the US and European economies.

(2) All this is good, positive. But, it will be stupid to lull ourselves into a false sense of euphoric complacency.

We don't need to be caught flatfooted in a crunch.

According to projections 2009 will see the global recession in full bloom and Sri Lanka has from now on to be ready to face any contingency.

As the old adage has it, 'to be forewarned, is to be forearmed'. And sadly, if this happened in the U.S. and if the warnings of the likes of Nouriel Roubini, Professor of Economics of the New York University being heeded, then the world would not have been in the terrible plight it is in.

His was a lone voice crying in the wilderness when he explained as early as in mid 2006 on his well read blog and in his speeches, why the bursting housing bubble would drive an unusually severe recession, states a Newsweek report.

Thus, it is imperative that we take every conceivable measure to counter any sizeable impact the global recession may foist on us. As suggested earlier, a think tank of financial experts from both the public and private sectors to regularly monitor the situation is an immediate necessity.





