S.W.R.D. and the Press

S.W.R.D. Bandaranaike's outstanding speeches and writings still continue to inspire the entire nation, either directly or indirectly.

Andrew Scott

Let us pay tribute to this great son of Sri Lanka by addressing our thoughts to some of these utterings he made about something which has a direct bearing on all of us - the freedom of the Press and the influence of the press.

Writing as far back as 1946 he said: "The very important part that the Press plays in modern society, particularly in a modern democratic society, is well recognised. Like most other freedoms, it has been after a long, and sometimes bitter struggle that the freedom of the press has been achieved. And like all freedoms, it involves both power as well as responsibility: the power to reflect as well as mould public opinion, justice and fair play."

On another occasion addressing the Press Association of Ceylon in 1959 he made a memorable speech. On that occasion he condemned Press dictatorship saying: "A dictatorship of the Press is one of the most pernicious and vicious dictatorships the world, particularly the democratic world, can possibly know. It is one of the most worst types of dictatorships. A political dictator, well, you know where he is, so that you know where you are, but with the press dictatorship you do not know.

The ordinary public do not know where they are with press dictatorship. A political leader makes his speech. They know well that it is his view. But when something appears in the newspapers, people do not attribute it to an individual. It is something impersonal and therefore has a greater force."

Addressing the Association of Reporters and Correspondents he remarked: "Reporters and correspondents play a very important part. I know that the task of reporting is a very difficult one.... When I was at Oxford, we had an undergraduate weekly paper known as "Oxford Isis" and sometimes its editor used to ask me to report the proceedings of the Oxford Union. I found it very interesting."

He was thoroughly conscious of the fact that the pressmen have to perform a difficult task. Referring to this situation he said: "Newspaper work is a very difficult task. I think, therefore, that there is a good case for some diploma course in journalism at the University of Ceylon and in the other universities that may exist in Ceylon or may be created in the future. I think it is a very sound idea indeed. I should think that the press concerns should also welcome such a training course before picking their reporters. If your association (i.e. Press Association) wishes to pursue that idea, the government can be of some help in the matter.... We shall be very glad to give you every help possible for the establishment of either a degree or diploma in journalism."





