Tribute

Stanley Wijesinghe

It is with a sad heart that I pen these few words of tribute in memory of the late Stanley Wijesinghe who breezed out of our lives, a year ago.

Stanley was one of the few executives absorbed into the service of the proposed Port (Cargo) Corporation from among the key personnel in the private wharf companies, on the eve of the nationalization of the Port in 1958. His career in the port showed steady progress. He was always methodical and systematic in whatever he did. These qualities combined with his sense of commitment, dedication and absolute integrity enabled him to easily advance up to the position of Finance Manager in the new set up.

However, his real talent came into play when he was handpicked by the first Chairman of the Sri Lanka Ports Authority (which superseded the Port (Cargo) Corporation), the late Wimal Amarasekera to head the largest single 'Catering Operation' of the South East Asian Region, the Kitchen and Canteen Section of the organisation, as its first Manager (Food and Beverages).

This involved the production and distribution of over 20,000 packeted meals and quantities of snacks and teas daily to be served to all grades of employees of the Authority at their individual work stations in widely dispersed locations in the port. It called for the efficient management of human and material resources, co-ordinating skills and even the qualities of an expert Chef de Cuisine, as it were. With a hands-on approach, Stanley managed this operation smoothly and to near perfection with a touch of panache for 15 long years until retirement in 1989.

A founder member of the SLPA Staff Officers' Association he functioned as its President for over 17 years, every time being re-elected uncontested, a clear testimony to the high regard he was held in by the membership.

Retirement was no resting place for Stanley. He willingly accepted the post of President, SLPA Retired Staff Officers' Association and continued till the year 2008 when he wished to be released from the responsibility owing to failing health. During his stewardship, he managed to secure for the members very many concessions and benefits which they enjoy at present.

Stanley was a prominent social worker in his home area, Mutwal, Colombo 15. He was the President of the Colombo North Lions Club through which he initiated several projects for the uplift of the community. He was also a willing host. Quite often he used to invite us to his club - The Fishtail Club, Mutwal of which too he was the President, to have a 'drink and chat.'

As a loving husband and caring father Stanley had discharged all his obligations to his family and especially seen to the educational needs of his three children who are now well settled in life as highly recognised professionals.

When he was diagnosed with a terminal illness he knew the time had come to meet the Creater. He took the sickness in his stride and faced the situation with courage and fortitude. I can well remember how his wife and children tended to him during his illness, rushing him to hospital at the slightest hint of danger and ensuring that the best of medical attention was made available at all times.

I can well imagine the loss it must have been to his wife - Genevive, daughter - Attracta and the two sons - Suran and Mallory. Perhaps the knowledge of the high esteem in which Stanley was held by all those who knew him and that he is being remembered and spoken of by them all may be of some consolation to them.





