Meet Krishan!

Adarae Namayen's new face of talent rises to the spotlight :

Ruwini Jayawardana

In a day when everybody entering films is clamoring to be a hero, this guy had the confidence to make his film debut with a negative role, a sure sign that he is more than confident in delivering the goods and proving his talent rather than resort to just being a label. Meet Krishan Sebamali, the newest face of talent to emerge with. A. R. Surryan and N. Nathan's movie Adarae Namayen as he expresses his ideas to Daily News 'Projector'.

Why did you choose to debut in a movie in negative light?

It happened coincidently. I have never taken part in acting before but once Anthony Rajah, who happens to be my uncle, read the script, he decided that I was perfect for this role.

I hesitated especially because it was the character of the villain but in the end they coaxed me and I am glad that I took up the challenge.

What really lured me to take part in this film is the script. It has three diverse characters for lead roles.

You get the bubbly and romantic Roshan as oppose to the arrogant and dominating Ajith.

Describe your experience acting on the sets.

Director Surryan was very supportive, organised and helped me develop my character to perfection. Everyone bonded big time and the working environment was very welcoming.

It felt like going back to my school days because about 50 percent of the movie involved shots in the college grounds. Our location was St. Benedict's College, Kotahena, and we had to wait till two for the school to conclude to begin shooting.

We used to spend time playing basketball. It was fun hanging out with Roshan. We have known each other since schooldays because we travelled to school in the same school van. I wish to thank everyone who helped me in whichever way to portray my character successfully. I am glad that the movie is doing well.

How is the viewer's response for Ajith's role?

Quite encouraging. There were mixed reactions and most of them detested the character because he was the anti-villain. Some people have mistaken me for an Indian actor because they say I have the features of a Tamil actor.

What was the scene you enjoyed acting most?

I liked the part nearing the climax of the drama when Ajith returns with his father to accept Duleeka. I had to make a long speech but I enjoyed doing that as it showed that my character had come to a certain realisation.

The scene in which I contemplate on committing suicide by walking to the edge of the top floor of a building is a scene which I will never forget because I did feel a sensation of butterflies in my stomach as I had to walk to the very edge and graze down from a long height.

Are you involved in any other film these days?

I am flying consistently to India to take part in two Tamil films on which I take up the characters of the hero.

One is the creation of Surryan which centres on a college student. It is a blend of action, romance and comedy. The stunts are an exciting aspect of the movie.

The other movie is a romance and action movie which will be shot in Rajestan. I am working on body building techniques for that. The filmmaker considered me for the role after he saw clips of Adarae Namayen being edited at a studio in India.

2009: A rocking year for Akshay Kumar

Akshay Kumar

New years and Year ends don't matter to all the celebrities of tinsel town. It's about refreshing themselves everyday as they are so critical, especially for those who have signed up for more projects till yearend. Well, then imagine Akshay Kumar who would be gearing up maximum projects in 2009.

In the earlier weeks of January, his Chandni Chowk to China will hit the screens. An action-comedy by its genre, the film is about a cook in Chandhi Chowk who accidentally lands up in China. It's the first ever Indian film to be shot at Great Wall of China. Post this project, Akki would be spotted in a psychological thriller 8x10 directed by Nagesh Kukunoor hitting screens in March.

Apart from these projects, he would be pairing up with Sanjay Dutt, Zayed Khan and Lara Dutta for Blue. Produced by Shree Ashtavinayak, major portion of this film is shot in underwater regions of Bahamas.

Akki's next film is Sajid Nadidwala's Kambakkth Ishq with Kareena Kapoor in female lead. It also has Hollywood's ever-praised celebrities Sylvester Stallone, Dinise Richards and Carmen Electra performing cameo roles.

The stunning highlights of this film would be groundbreaking stunts choreographed by a top-charting stunt master. Well, more than all, he is going be a part in Vipul Shah's next untitled flick where Katrina Kaif would be the heroine. It's noteworthy that this trio-combo struck gold this year with blockbuster Singh is King.

Introducing few International Films

K. S. Sivakumaran

What follows is a brief summary of some films this columnist enjoyed seeing at the recently concluded Kerala International Film Festival of India in the state's capital Thiruvananthapuram. The purpose is to give information to serious cinemagoers of the range of films that were produced in recent years, particularly in Asia, Africa, Latin America and West Asia.

I shall first mention the winning films in the competition as judged by the jury and the delegates at the Festival.

01. Best Feature Film: 'Parque Via by Enrique Rivero (Mexican)'

02. Best Director: 'Mariana Rondon for Postcards from Leningrad'

03. Award by the International Federation of Film Critics: The film mentioned above

I managed to see only 33 films at the KFFI. Here are my observations on some of them.

'Laila's Birthday' (Palestinian) is a film on the adversarial situations in which a former judge but presently a taxi driver encountered while returning home early to celebrate his 7 year old daughter's birthday.

'Tokyo Sonata'

His comment on political and social situations that prevails in Palestine today is revealing. He goes out to help everyone who is in some trouble or the other even if he faces undue embarrassment. Through simple incidents, a strong character is portrayed. It's a well made realistic film in warring atmosphere.

The Russian film 'Winter Evening' is a very entertaining tap dance film with fine musical scores. It is also a picture of classic ballet. The film is based on the live story of a legendary tap dancer. I enjoyed it very much I was fascinated in seeing and listening to another entertainer- a film from Turkey called 'Crossing Bridge'. 'Turkish music, particularly of the Kurds' is fantastic.

The Kurds were denied their language and music until recently. In this documentary fashioned film one could here even Egyptian, and Persian music akin to the undertones of Oriental music. 'Tokyo Sonata' (Japanese) is a very fine study of four characters in a family encountering adverse experiences.

'Boarding Gate' is a thriller and it is not different from any other films of this genre in other parts of the world.

'Farewell Gallery' is about the challenges against rigid Communistic dictatorship. A commune farmer looking after horse and sheep farms faces unrealistic demands from a commissar.

'The Photograph' is again a human interest story of belated contacts between a young prostitute with a baby and an old Chinese photographer.

'Dreams of Dust' is an African film of survival and love in gold mines. Touching.

As a teacher I found the French film 'Class' very interesting and realistic.

This is a film about students from different ethnic groups and an understanding teacher. The conflicts and the resolution are convincing.

'I'm not there' traces the different faces of Bob Dylan in his chequered musical career. Music, lyrics and songs alluring.

(More next week)

'The Day the Earth Stood Still' in Colombo

In the original movie, a flying saucer orbits Earth, and lands in Washington, DC, on the Mall. Klaatu (Michael Rennie) steps out and is shot by a jumpy soldier.

Gort (Lock Martin), an indestructible robot, steps out of the spacecraft and proceeds to melt all the weapons, including tanks. Later, the Earth comes to realize that Gort has used very little of his power to make this happen.

While lying on the ground, Klaatu orders Gort to stop and is then taken by the military to a hospital, from which he later escapes in order to learn more about this planet called Earth and its human inhabitants.

He meets Helen Benson (Patricia Neal) and her son Bobby (Billy Gray); takes Klaatu on a tour of Washington, DC; and finally stops in front of the Lincoln Memorial. Klaatu reads the words uttered by Lincoln many years ago and realizes that there might be hope for Earth.

When they begin to suspect the alien man, he reveals himself, along with the news that Gort is a member of a race of super-robot enforcers invented to keep the peace of the galaxy and will destroy the Earth if provoked. Klaatu is pursued and shot and killed by the military.

Before Klaatu dies, he tells Helen to go to Gort, and say the words "Klaatu barada nikto." If she does not, Klaatu tells her Gort will destroy the Earth.

Helen makes her way to the ship and finds Gort. As the robot moves towards her, she repeats the phrase over and over. The robot picks her up and takes her into the ship. It then retrieves Klaatu's body and, through their alien science, resurrects Klaatu.

Scott Derrickson's 2008 remake about an alien and his indestructible robot will star Keanu Reeves as Klaatu, Jennifer Connelly as Helen Benson, Jaden Smith as Jacob, and Kathy Bates. Gort has not been cast at this time and will most likely be created using SFX.

The movie is screening at Liberty cinema, Colombo, and Cinemax, Ja-ela.

Tikiri Suwanda to begin work soon

Sunil Aruna Weerasiri's movie, Tikiri Suwanda will hold its Muhurath ceremony at Arunakanthi Sevana, Obawattha, on January 9 at 9 p.m. Chairman of the National Film Corporation, Jayantha Darmadasa will be the chief guest at the event.

The movie is scripted, produced and directed by Weerasiri while a host of new child actors will make their presence with seasoned campaigners like Joe Abeywickrama, Jayalal Rohana, Anula Karunatileke, Giriraj Kaushalya, Duleeka Marapana, Jayani Senanayake, Rodney Warnakula, Priyantha Seneviratne, Ramya Wanigasekara, Sarath Cahndrasiri and others.

Pramod Mihiranga Weerasiri, a fresh young face will also be introduced to the cinema. The story and dialogues are by Lal Pagodarachchi. The movie is an Arunakanthi Film production.

Cuban Film Festival at Russian Center

The Cuban Embassy in association with the Sri Lanka - Cuba Friendship society will present a Cuban Film Festival from January 12 to 17. The following films will be screened at the Russian Center. Entrance free.





