President of the Court of Appeal, other Judges of the Court of Appeal, Commercial High Court Judges, High Court Judges, Colombo District Judge, Additional District Judges, Colombo Chief Magistrate and Colombo Additional Magistrates were at the dias.

President's Counsel, Senior and Junior members of the Official and Unofficial Bar, and Justice Imam's wife Ayesha, son Ali and relatives were also present.

Justice Imam said the High Court of the Provinces (Special Provisions-Amendment) Act No 54 of 2006 to deal with the backlog of cases with regard to Civil Appeals, is the brainchild of Chief Justice Sarath N.Silva PC.

As the Civil Appeal Courts have now been established with the law being implemented, with the establishment of more such Courts gaining momentum, there is bound to be a reduction in the backlog of Civil Appeals, he said.

Having taken oaths on February 21, 1974, he commenced his legal practice in Kandy, where he practiced for six years.

"I joined the Sri Lanka Judicial Service on 01.03.1980 as a Magistrate and served in various parts of the island in different capacities. This journey of mine from the Magistrate's Court of Gangodawila to this Apex Court has been long, interesting, eventful and arduous, he said.

"Today is certainly an important day in my life, for God has given me the good fortune to serve the public henceforth as a Judge of The Supreme Court. I am mindful of several distinguished Judges of great talent and skill who have adorned this Apex Court and seek to endeavour to dispense Justice to the best of my ability, being conscious of the numerous duties cast on me. The importance and dignity of this exalted Office occupies an eminent position in our long and rich Legal History and I shall always venture to maintain the highest traditions and standards required of me, he said.

"We have observed a Development of the Law in numerous fields, members of the official and unofficial Bar too having participated in this process of development. Hence the benefit of advanced training in specialized fields of law at seats of learning, both in Sri Lanka and abroad are necessary for us to keep in pace with the rest of the developed world," Justice Imam said.

"An independent, effective and fearless legal profession is essential to the upholding of the Rule of Law and the independence of the Judiciary," he said.

"With globalization and the ensuing effects, there exists a resultant awareness of legal rights among people which leads to a substantial increase in the institution of cases, with the demand for speedy Justice being universal. Today, most of our Courts are computerized and our Staff trained to meet the demands of modern life," Justice Imam said.

"Success in the performance of Judicial work is a combined effort of the Bench, Bar and public acceptance of the authority of the Judiciary and whatever success I have achieved as a Judge is perhaps due to the aforesaid combined effort acting in unison, he said.

Court for his utmost co-operation handed over to me.

"I pray to Almighty Allah to grant me the strength and wisdom to fulfill all my duties without fear or favour in order to dispense with justice, he said.

The new Supreme Court Judge, Justice S. I. Imam posed for a group photograph with Chief Justice Sarath N. Silva, PC and the other Judges of the Supreme Court.





