Quick Look

WPC dissolved

The Western Provincial Council was dissolved yesterday, Western Province Governor Alavi Mowlana said.

Nominations for the election will be called by the Election Secretariat shortly. Moves are underway to hold the election before the end of March.

Mowlana said that young people will be given a chance to contest and contribute to the development of the province. He also said the door is open for other parties to contest under the UPFA symbol.

Indian Coast Guard on high alert

With the LTTE on the run in Sri Lanka following the fall of its last strong-hold Mullaitivu, the Indian Government has put the entire eastern coast, including the Visakhaptnam harbour and port, on high alert.

The move comes in the wake of intelligence inputs that LTTE members could sail into India hoping to find a safe heaven not only in Tamil Nadu but also the other parts.

Several fishing boats with blood marks were found on the Tamil Nadu coast recently raising fears of an LTTE exodus into the country.

The Coast Guard is reportedly checking all vessels, including fishing trawlers, both off and on shore. However, when contacted, Indian Coast Guard Deputy Director General JP Raj denied receiving any alert from the Centre.

"After the Mumbai terror attacks, we have been on high alert, but there are no specific orders that we should watch out for LTTE militants," he said.

But according to sources in the Vizag Port Trust, the LTTE has sympathisers in the shipping world and it might use these contacts to escape the fury of the Sri Lankan Army.

"I do not know their names, but a few foreign shipping agencies support the LTTE. They used to ferry weaponry to the LTTE. The Intelligence Bureau has information on these agencies," a senior official of port told TNIE.

Express Buzz

Construction work to be expedited

Mohammed NAALIR

Minister of Water Supply and Drainage A.L.M. Athaullah directed the relevant officers to expedite the construction work of the Addalaichenai Super Market Complex which has been abandoned for a long time.

Construction work will be carried out at a cost of Rs. 150 million, Ministry sources said. The proposed market complex will come up in the premises of the Addalaichenai Jumma Mosque comprising a cultural hall, shops and lodging rooms.

Over 500 latrines to be constructed

Hiriyala group correspondent

The Sri Lanka Red Cross Society has been planned to construct 500 latrines for families selected from a number of D.S. divisions to uplift the health conditions of the rural masses.

"In a recent survey conducted by us, it was revealed that most of the rural masses do not have proper toilet facilities, which is why we intended to implement this project". President of the Kurunegala branch of the Sri Lanka Red Cross Society A.M. Bandaranayake said.

Divisional Directors of Health Services and Public Health Inspectors in the respective areas extend their fullest co-operation towards our society to make this effort a success.

Rs. 30m allocated to develop roads

A.M. Gunasekera Banda - Balangoda Central Group Correspondent

A sum of Rs. 30 million has been allocated by the Ministry of Estate Infrastructure to renovate and develop disrepaired estate roads in the Badulla District, Uva (CWC) Provincial Councillor K. Visvanadan said.

Estate roads in Haputale, Welimada, Ella, Passara, Hali Ela, Badulla, Lunugala and Soranetota Divisional Secretariat Divisions will be developed under this programme as well.

More Tamil books needed

Mahaweli Systems Corr.

The Patha-dumbara Pradeshiya Sabha of the Kandy district has decided to add more Tamil books to the local public libraries. This decision has been taken for the benefit of local public who like to read Tamil publications.

The Local Government body is interacting with school libraries in the Patha-dumbara area to popularize the reading habit among the schoolchildren too.

Savan Sahana School of Deaf anniversary

The 25th anniversary celebration of Dr. Reijntjes School for the Deaf-known in Sinhala as Savan Sahana School of the deaf will be held at the Savan Sahana School of the Deaf, Andiris de Silva Mawatha, Rawatawatta, Moratuwa on February 1 at 6.00 p.m.

Ambassador of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, Leoni Cuelenaere the guest of honour will be Bill Engbers. Treasures of the Reijntjes Foundation and Faffie Reijntjes representing Dr. J. A. Reijntjes will be the Chief Guests.

Wanted for attack on Rivira Editor

This suspect is wanted in connection with the attack on Rivira editor Upali Thennakoon on January 23, 2009, the Media Centre for National Security said. Information on the whereabouts of this suspect or about the incident can be passed onto 011-2662323, 011-2662330, 011-2662311 or 011-2693825 of the Colombo Crime Bureau.

Calligraphy classes at Iranian Embassy

Calligraphy and painting classes conducted by the Cultural Section of the Embassy of the Islamic Republic of Iran will begin on February 2.

The classes will be conducted once a week on Mondays from 3.00 pm at the Cultural Section of the Embassy of the Islamic Republic of Iran, 6, Sir Ernest de Silva Mawatha, Colombo 7. Those interested are requested to call over at the Cultural Section for registration. Call 2575680-1 for details.

Pirith at Sirimavo Bandaranaike Vidyalaya

The 35th anniversary of Sirimavo Bandaranaike Vidyalaya, Colombo 7 will be celebrated today from 8.30 a.m. at the school premises with a pirith ceremony and an almsgiving organised by the School's Buddhist Association.

A first day cover and a souvenir titled '35 years of pride' will be released to mark the occasion. The school will also welcome the new batch of Grade 1 students at this event.

Lecture on Molecular Medicine

The General Dental Practitioners' Association has invited Prof. Eric Karunanayaka of the Institute of Biochemistry, Molecular Biology and Biotechnology of the University of Colombo for a lecture discussion on "Molecular Medicine" on February 6 from 8.00 p.m. to 9.00 p.m. at the S.L.D.A. Auditorium, O.P.A. Building, Prof. Stanley Wijesundera Mawatha, Colombo 7.

D.S. Senanayake College prize day

The annual presentation of awards ceremony of the D.S. Senanayake College, Colombo will be held on February 2 at 8.30 a.m. at the R.I.T. Alles Hall. Education Minister Susil Premajayantha will be the chief guest and award prizes. Principal Dr. Asoka Senani Hewage will preside.

Old Anandians blood donation

A blood donation campaign and a health camp organised by the Old Anandians '97 Group will be held on Sunday from 9.30 a.m. to 4.00 p.m. at Ananda College, Colombo. Contact: 0777 273726.

Rahula AGM

The annual get-together of Matara Rahula College Old Boys' Association Colombo Branch will be held on February 8 from 8.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. at the Municipal Grounds, Race Course, Reid Avenue, Colombo 7.

Various competitions have been organised for members and their families. An inter-university six-a-side cricket tournament organised for old boys studying in universities will also be held.

Public seminar

A public seminar organised by the Sri Lanka Economic Association jointly with the Organisation of Professional Associations of Sri Lanka on 'Co-operative Development Peace and Security in South Asia' will be held tomorrow at 5.00 p.m. at the OPA Auditorium.

Sanghika Dana

A Sanghika Dana for 150 Bhikkus followed by an all-night Pirith Pinkama to mark the 150th anniversary of Colombo District Secretariat and to invoke blessings on the President, country, its people and the soldiers will be held today.

Ministers Dinesh Gunawardena, Susil Premajayantha A.H.M. Fowzie and Parliamentarians and Provincial Council Members will participate.

Death of former ANCL employee

He leaves his wife Malini and daughters Janita and Cecilia. Remains lying at his residence at 24/26, Janasavi Mawatha, Egoda Uyana, Moratuwa will be taken to a funeral parlour at Galle Road, Mt. Lavinia at 10.00 a.m. today. Funeral takes place at the Galkissa Cemetery this afternoon.

Death of ex-CMC member

The death occurred of E. Victor Dabare, a former Member of the Colombo Municipal Council with an unbroken service of 30 years.

A son of late Muhandiram E.D. Dabare and Leelawathie Chandraratne, he was the brother of Hema Dabare and Maureen Ranawaka.

During his tenure as a Municipal Council member, he headed several standing committees and was instrumental in spearheading many development projects in the city.

He represented the Narahenpita ward as a SLFP member for 30 years continuously.

He leaves his wife Ratna, son Poshitha an Assistant Commissioner of Labour and daughter Priyanka.





