Ex-JVP MP supports President

Speaking to the media Polgampola said the President is the only candidate who could protect the country from terrorism and support national economy based on agriculture.

He alleged that an international conspiracy being hatched to destroy JVP, the largest leftist movement in the country and against the country's sovereignty.

Polgampola said that JVP has deviated itself from the socialist course and joined hands with the extreme right to betray the party membership and the country.

He claimed that the decision to support a common candidate has split the party and members were demoralized and tend to leave the party.

He said the JVP is a movement involved in leftist politics for 50 years and claimed that it faces both the psychological and physical destruction on the face undemocratic decisions taken by the party leadership.

He claimed that although they struggled within the party to convince its leadership the danger of the decision taken to support a common candidature aligned with the extreme right the party leadership would not listen to the ordinary party membership. "They have taken the decision secretly without holding the party conference," he alleged. He said the SLFP and UNP held their party conference but the JVP could not hold the party conference.

Polgampola said that JVP joined the probationary government in 2004 and supported then Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa at 2005 Presidential Election campaign after these decisions were democratically approved at the party conference. "We discussed with former President Chandrika Bandaranaike for six months before accepting ministerial posts in the probationary government of 2004," he revealed. He added that the party discussed with then Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa for four months before supporting him at the 2005 presidential election.

"The JVP has not entered into an agreement to support Sarath Fonseka," he alleged. However, JVP entered into an agreement in 2004 and 2005.

Polgampola said that the ultimate goal of the JVP is the realization of socialist society and a national economy based on agriculture. He queried as to how the JVP leadership realize socialism with UNP which is at extreme right. He challenged the JVP leadership to reveal as to how the party could benefit out of this alliance.

Polgampola also alleged that pro-LTTE ideologies being leaked into the party through INGOs such as CGIL of Italy. "These organizations deal with both LTTE and JVP and is pushing JVP to extreme right," he alleged. Polgampola claimed that he has the support of a large number of members including parliamentarians. He also invited party membership to join him in the struggle to save the party and the country.





