For our children

Make the world a better place:

Charmaine FERNANDO

UN General Assembly called for an Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, on the Sale of Children, Child Prostitution, and Child Pornography, and entered in to force on January 18, 2002. Almost eight years later, today, it is apt to look back on what difference it had made to the global generation of children.

Children will be children

People from around the world meet often at the UN to talk about how to make the world a better place for kids. Practically, everyone agrees, hardly anybody disagrees, but the sad side to the story lies in the fact that the grown-ups have not done enough for the world's children, and it is time to think about how a kid might want the world to look and feel.

For the children by the children

For the first time ever, over 400 children from about 100 countries participated as delegates in the Special Session of the UN General Assembly on Children to have their say. The Special Session culminated in the official adoption, by some 180 nations, of its outcome document, A World Fit for Children, which outlines the promises and the obligations to take action by ensuring that the Rights of young people and children are respected.

At the United Nations, children and young people's voices have been heard side by side with world leaders, policy makers, and members of governments, decision-makers, civil society, and media, in the review of progress towards achieving goals. Young people from all over the world have strongly expressed their views about what kind of world they want to live in and they vehemently insisted that they are extremely convinced that our world has to be a 'World Fit for Children'.

Creating a 'World Fit for Children'

Children knew exactly what they lacked and wanted badly. A 'World Fit for Children' means a world founded on principles of democracy, equality, non-discrimination, peace and social justice and where the best interests of young people and children are taken into account. They said that there is time to determine what should be given priority because much more has to be done to achieve the Millennium Development Goals! Children and young people's voices were heard among world leaders, policy makers, and members of governments, decision-makers, civil society, and media, in the review of progress towards the goals of the Special Session during the last 5 years.

Children see; children do

The aim of this General Assembly Special Session for Children was to see if the previous commitment to give every child a better future effectively worked.

Changing the world order for the better

Since the Special Session of 2002 much progress has been made. Millions of young lives have been saved. Global child deaths have reached a record low, falling below 10 million per year to 9.7 million, down from almost 13 million in 1990; more children than ever are in school, more children are actively involved in decisions concerning their lives.

The world governments are evolving best practices to give a better day to the children of the world. They are attending to practical action, passing acts in parliaments, getting the laws made, providing the backdrop, infrastructure and action plans to get the cog wheels turning to give the children a better day tomorrow. Special emphasis is placed on education, health care, housing, sanitary facilities, sports facilities and opportunities in many spheres.

Parents, obligations and child rights

To guarantee children and young people, better lives, and to do what has to be done, it's best to start from home base. Parents have only to concentrate on giving their children the protection, care and a peaceful home background as an initial step.

When they are provided a stimulating background with whatever basic facilities that ensure and support the child's' rights and privileges, the children will appreciate and value the world they live in. They will learn from their adults how to protect children's rights.

Children are the assets of any country

It is the right of a child to receive loving care, food, clothes, education, guidance and protection in the cocoon of their home from the onset. The home environment should provide the necessary input for the development of the child's social, intellectual, spiritual and physical growth. It is a child's right to be looked after from infancy, through a happy and healthy childhood and the opportunity to blossom out in to his maximum potential. To this end the family, neighbourhood, society, village or town, the country and the world hold a responsibility to create a favourable environment for growth and development of every child's full potentialities.

Millennium goals have been identified as guidelines for creating the kind of world children will find as their ideal.

Achieve universal primary education

Providing children with a basic education is the best investment the world can make in its future.

Education reduces poverty by providing everyone with choices and opportunities to create a better life for themselves. It is the aim to make sure that children everywhere, boys and girls alike are able to complete a full course of primary schooling by 2015. Education gives young people a stronger voice in society, and creates the opportunities and choices that allow them to lift themselves out of poverty.

Promote gender equality and empower women

Promoting gender equality means ensuring that women have the same chances as men to improve their lives and the lives of their families. Women also need to have the same opportunities as men to participate in the decision-making process. Young people need to be leaders in the fight to end unfair discrimination against women forcing the hand of governments to make a real change now.

Reduce child mortality

More than 11 million children die each year in the developing world from preventable illnesses Every child born into this world, no matter where, deserves to live a rich and full life. Child mortality is linked with all the other Goals, because young children are always the most affected by poverty. Every year, two million children die as a result of dirty water or improper sanitation facilities. Immunizations against preventable diseases can be recognized and treated in their early stages, and more health care providers can be hired, particularly in rural areas. Young women also need improved access to family planning and sexual and reproductive health education

Improve maternal health

Worldwide, more than 50 million women suffer from poor reproductive health and serious pregnancy-related illnesses. Bringing a baby into the world should be a wonderful moment in a woman's life, but for many, it is a life-threatening event. Many pregnant women living in poverty simply do not have transportation to emergency medical facilities.

Measures must be taken to improve the conditions and reduce by 75% the number of women who die in childbirth as young mothers are at a greater risk of having pregnancy related complications, or even death.

Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases

Every day, seven thousand young people contract HIV/AIDS. Every minute, six young people between the ages of 10 and 25 are infected with HIV/AIDS. Young people need information and preventive education in order to decrease the risk of infection and halt the spread of this disease. HIV/AIDS not only affects the individual, it touches entire communities and countries. As more and more teachers die from HIV/AIDS, children are robbed of an education. Farmers dying of HIV/AIDS are unable to provide enough food for their families and villages, causing more poverty and hunger. Plans are ahead to stop, and finally reverse, the spread of HIV/AIDS, malaria and other deadly diseases by 2015.

Ensure environmental sustainability

Today, human activities are causing losses in bio-diversity at a rate 50 to 100 times faster than expected.

We can not maintain a healthy society or economy without taking care of our environment, and protecting our environment. Improved water and sanitation help to reduce child mortality, and better drainage reduces the risk of malaria.

Ministry of Child Development and Women's Empowerment

The Ministry of Child Development and Women's Empowerment, the main national centre of child care, protection, welfare and development has taken effective measures to carry out several services for the child and women, the Minister of Child Development and Women's Empowerment Sumedha G. Jayasena outlines. "We can be rest assured that a conducive backdrop has now dawned," she added.

Contribution from the society is essential for the children's wellbeing and it was President Mahinda Rajapaksa who established a separate Ministry for Child Development and Women's Empowerment, she said.

Children are power-assets of our country

Children are the future of a country and how well you guide, steer and stimulate them will determine the future of the country.

When children are cared for, provided with basic essentials of love, protection and acceptance, giving them a place in life, they in turn with become assets to the country they live.

It is up to the parents, family, elders, teachers, school community and society they move in to show them the way. All children are essentially good.

They need to have the conducive soil to grow and flower; the drizzle and the sunshine to bear fruit.

It's the responsibility of each of us to see that every child gets the opportunity to grow to his maximum potential.

Children when neglected, harassed, man-handled, abused and ill-treated will grow up to become a plague to society for no fault of their own. They will hate society. If they are of subdued nature will get in to a shell; if they develop resistance to the negative treatment dished out by society, they could turn criminal. Love tames anything and everything.

Every one of us has the angel and the monster in us.

Handle children like glass; with love and care. Let the angel soar. Never let the monster out!

Millennium Goals

There are eight goals identified to create a world that metes out the right environment for our children. It is the duty of every government to ensure that the children live in viable backdrop to zoom in on their optimum potential becoming an asset to the society they live in.

Goal 1: Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger

Goal 2: Achieve universal primary education

Goal 3: Promote gender equality and empower women

Goal 4: Reduce child mortality

Goal 5: Improve maternal health

Goal 6: Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases

Goal 7: Ensure environmental sustainability

Goal 8: Develop a global partnership for development

What the Children of the World want

At the UN Assembly for Children where 400 Children participated they identified the four things

that needed adult attention and action with immediate effect.

to promote healthy lives - getting people to live in a healthy way.

to provide quality education for all - going to school no matter who you are and where you live.

to protect children against abuse, exploitation and violence - an end to taking advantage of kids.

to combat HIV/AIDS - keeping sick people healthy and healthy people safe.





