Dialog powers environment education workshops

A major milestone of Dialog Telekom PLC's Corporate Responsibility Outreach effort was reached when the company powered Mobile Environmental Education Programme (MEEP) completed an annual target of 150 schools.

Dialog Telekom joined hands with the Central Environmental Authority (CEA), the Biodiversity and Elephant Conservation Trust (BECT) and the International Union for the Conservation of Nature and natural resources (IUCN) to educate children on environment through this unique education programme. The aim of the Mobile Environment Education Programme (MEEP) was to raise awareness of future generations on natural resources and make them ambassadors for the protection of biodiversity through animated presentations.

As part of the project, lecturers facilitated by BECT travelled to schools approved by the Ministry of Education in the 'MEEP' van and delivered the workshop even in areas without electricity through the power generator taken with them. The interactive sessions on biodiversity and natural resources of Sri Lanka thereby took technology to the rural underprivileged areas of Sri Lanka. Children were also provided an opportunity to pose questions relating to the environment, which were answered to their satisfaction by members of MEEP facilitating team. The programme has been acknowledged by many schools as a highly effective method for increasing interest among students on environment, with the usage of sophisticated multimedia and modern technology as teaching aids. At the completion of each workshop, stimulating booklets on biodiversity and natural resources were also distributed to each school in the local language, as well as English. The IUCN carried out a separate review which was also used to inform continuous improvement of the programme delivery. With an average of 150 students (age 8-18) per school, MEEP reached approximately 22,500 kids this year. The best 'green' effort by the children subsequent to the programme will be assessed in 2009 and the best school rewarded as well.

The MEEP project supplements another 'green' effort by Dialog Telekom to collect old mobile phone batteries and handsets.

DSI to diversify into beverage market

Anuradha KODAGODA

DSI Group has diversified their business into the fruit based beverages market. Speaking to the Daily News Business, Deputy General Manager - Coordination Dilshan Rajapaksa of D. Samson Industries said the recent research conducted by the company revealed that today people are more concernd about their health and there's a huge demand for fresh beverages.

Identifying this potential in the market, we take the initiative to start up with the healthy fresh beverages such as fruit juices. "Its delectable menu, crafted by some of the best professionals in Business, gives an amazing choice of 100% fruit based beverages to both health and taste enthusiasts" he added. "We opened up our first branch in Thummulla, under the brand name of Punch with an investment of over Rs.3 million. We are planning to open up more outlets in Colombo in near future."

"Punch brings to Colombo a unique international theme that combines health with Fun and also it would be a novel experience for fun seekers," he said.

Indian economy: Winner in global turmoil

Described as the elephant that didn't know its strength, India stood tall in 2008 as the global community battled this century's worst economic crisis, while easing prices and dissipation of energy turbulence offered the hope it would outperform the rest in the new year.

Arguably the most eventful year ahead of Lok Sabha polls, the high of the initial months gave in to despair by the middle, but the end appeared to be working in favour of the consumer with inflation halving from the year's high of close to 13 per cent.

The academic theories and manifestation of the Finance Ministry for strict fiscal discipline were, for once, given a backseat as the government worked to push agriculture by waiving farm loans, industry through a stimulus package and consumer by paving the way for low interest regime. PTI

Mobitel partners with NSB

Sri Lanka Telecom Mobitel, signed an agreement with the National Savings Bank to provide enhanced services.

Mobitel customers can now use their mobile telephone numbers at any NSB branch in any part of the country, receive online instant updates, settle bills or top up prepaid accounts instantly.

Leisha De Silva Chandrasena said, 'This partnership between two National bodies is sealed with the sole intention of providing our customers with greater convenience and value added services. We consider the existing 120 strong branch network of NSB to be of great importance towards reaching and serving our customers across every province of the country'.

This affiliation enhances and reassures our commitment to customer centricity.

Guneratne said, Mobitel has certainly lived up to its promise of 'We Care always,' and NSB together in partnership with Mobitel, will continue to offer innovative payment solutions throughout the country.'

This agreement will also serve as a basis for introducing in the near future products such as SMS banking for mutual benefit of both NSB and Sri Lanka Telecom Mobitel and its customers.

Lanka Bell felicitates top performers

Lanka Bell has felicitated staff members whose service performance has contributed to the rapid expansion and growth of the company.

The company awarded 12 main awards and 49 Service Excellence Awards at 'One Awards', the annual employee awards night ceremony. This year's theme was 'Thunder and Lightening' which depicted Energy, Dynamism and Excellence, the three forces that operate in the organization.

Lanka Bell Managing Director Prasad Samarasinghe acknowledged the valuable work done by award winners whose support played a key role in the company's achievement of a number of important milestones during the year. He said the company had exceeded one million CDMA subscribers this year and had fully deployed the benefits from connecting with the FLAG undersea fibre optic cable network, and introduced many value added features including paying subscribers for the overseas calls they receive on their Lanka Bell phones.

With its investment in FLAG, the company has emerged as a major enterprise solutions provider, opening up many opportunities for growth in voice and data solutions to a wide range of businesses.

The most important award at the ceremony, 'Employee of the Year Award' was shared by Anuruddhika Dissanayake from the 'Switching and Planning Department' and Ajantha Caldera from the Lanka Bell National Sales Department. The awards were presented to the winners by Lanka Bell Chairman Harry Jayawardena and the company's Managing Director Prasad Samarasinghe.

The main awards included IT person of the year, Technical person of the year - Operations, Technical person of the year - Switching and Planning, Collector of the year, Customer Care Person of the year - BPO, Customer Care Person of the year - Cluster, Sales Person of the year - Residential, Sales Person of the year - Corporate, Support Services Person of the year and Manager of the year.

NTB to focus on risk management

Anjana SAMARASINGHE

Zulfiqar Zavahir

Nations Trust Bank (NTB) will focus more on risk management, liquidity and managing costs this year to enhance bank stability further.

Speaking to Daily News Business Director/Chief Executive Officer of NTB Zulfiqar Zavahir said risk management, liquidity and managing costs will be the three main areas the bank will focus on this year.

Despite the current economic situation, the bank was able to perform well last year, he said.

NTB was established in 1999 and during this short period, the bank has built a strong brand in the local banking sector. We have three multinational funding agencies and we are negotiating with another multinational funding agency in 2009.

This reflects the immense confidence that multinational funding agencies have in the NTB," he said. Talking about the local banking, industry Zavahir said with the current economic condition they have noticed that there is a slight increase in non-performing loans. "Today banks are more careful in lending and adopt effective measures to monitor their borrowers," he said.

According to the Central Bank, deposits and loans and advances grew only by 5.2 per cent and 3.9 per cent respectively during the first nine months of 2008 in comparison to 11.9 per cent and 15.8 per cent for the corresponding period in 2007.

In comparison, we have been able to grow our deposits by 10 per cent and loans and advances by 19 per cent, he said.

Last year was a challenging year for the local banking sector and the coming months will be more challenging since the demand for the goods and services will be lesser.

However the bank is optimistic about this year and geared to face the challenges by adopting correct strategies, he said.

In the local banking industry, there is a room to cater customer needs with service excellence.

The Bank also planning to have 'Bank with us' campaign from January with Kumar Sangakkara.

NTB also has made a significant impact in the Sri Lankan market and has many more innovative aspirations for the future.

'Architects 2009' in February

Sri Lanka Institute of Architects (SLIA) will be hosting 'Architects 2009,' which is its 28th trade exhibition from February 18 to 22, at the BMICH. Held on an annual basis, it will display the work of members that have been carried out here as well as overseas.

The objective of the event is to further facilitate improvements in the industry through the creation of awareness, having both prospective buyers and sellers under one roof. There will be over 400 stalls at the venue, coupled with an improved layout, enhanced public access and exposure, allowing exhibitors to be able to enjoy maximum mileage with stalls of improved quality. This year suppliers from the Asian region are expected to participate as well, providing exposure to a wide array of products offered to the international market.

This is an ideal opportunity for building material manufacturers and dealers, contractors, furniture and equipment manufacturers, a host of service providers as well as the construction industry to present their latest selection of goods to the public. Stakeholders in the industry will be able to interact on a one on one basis with the visitors, getting feedback on their products and services.

President, SLIA, Architect, Jayantha Perera, said "As one of the foremost professional organizations in Sri Lanka and the Asian region, we are indeed proud to hosting the Architects trade and exhibition fair early next year.

We see this as a grand opportunity for all Stakeholders associated with the construction industry to present their goods and services to a larger clientele.

It is also our hope that the increased focus on the Architects' work area will draw more visitors to the exhibition this year too. "

Last year, the widely successful exhibition attracted a cross section of over 100, 000 visitors, with a large number of companies displaying their works.

F& G launch 'The Rarus' designer homes

Deputy Chairman F&G Group, Mervyn Jayasinghe, Mrs. Jayasinghe, Executive Director F&G Group, Mohan Perera, and Directors of the F&G Group with the F&G PDL Sales Team after the unveiling of the model of The Rarus at the launch ceremony.

F&G Property Developers (Pvt) Ltd will embark on its latest designer homes, The Rarus, at Nawala establishing a new benchmark for super luxury living.

Chairman F&G Group Mervyn Jayasinghe said that in order to differentiate The Rarus from many housing projects in Sri Lanka, they have to bring something special to the table.

"We sought to elevate this development and set it apart from those other projects by drawing inspiration from some of the most exclusive, rarified things in the world."

Executive Director F&G Group, Mohan Perera, said that Rarus will become the new yardstick by which other luxury housing developments are measured." Perera said The Rarus is destined to become an icon of discerning taste, elite design, and fine living.

The exclusive development features amenities including a swimming pool, gymnasium, sauna, recreation centre, and 24-hour security.

Prospective owners can consult F&G's team of architects, engineers, and designers and tailor-make their home.

The heart fund organised by Nawaloka Hospitals, the Bank of Ceylon and Soma Edirisinghe, received over Rs 1 million in donations from the Pancha Maha Balavegaya in Ratnapura (Sanga, Veda, Guru, Govi and Kamkaru) at an event organised recently at the Ratnapura Mudduwa Sirisumana Temple Hall amidst the presence of a large gathering of Ven. Sanga Nayakas and Chief Priests of the temples and pirivenas of the Ratnapura District.

The Minister of Youth Affairs Pavithra Devi Wanniarachchi, Founder of the Dr. Soma Edirisinghe Punarjeewa fund Soma Edirisinghe, staff of Nawaloka Hospital and a crowd of over two thousand residents of the Ratnapura District participated in this meritorious event.

Over 33,000 heart patients are in imminent need of heart surgery in Sri Lanka and due to the long waiting list at the National hospitals, Nawaloka Hospitals together with the Punarjeewa Fund have decided to launch a fund on World Heart Day for urgent heart surgeries.

Unusual hoarding in Dambulla attracts birds

Fruits are not in season and birds, squirrels and other small animals face harsh times. The little creatures in Dambulla, however have received a windfall, near a C.I.C. farm, on a never before seen hoarding with a large jam bottle built into it.

The holiday makers and travellers to Dambulla and Polonnaruwa have witnessed and are amazed by the number of squirrels, parrots and myna birds, to name a few, flocking to this hoarding, attracted by the freshness of the jam.

Special benefits for HSBC card holders

HSBC offers its Premier, Platinum, gold and classic credit card holders numerous benefits, discounts and rewards during the season, which are valid until January 31, 2009.

Customers can also enjoy special discounts up to 15 per cent on a range of retail clothing stores such as Aashkii, Gabanna, Giodanno, Addidas, Bambino, Cool Planet and, during the Promotion period on selected products.

HSBC Reward points can be redeemed at Odel, where cardholders will receive a 10 per cent discount on redemption of their rewards points, while the following premier establishments - Exclusive Lines, Jetwing Hotels, Vijitha Yapa and Mango Tree will provide customers with special discounts.

Issued in the categories of Classic Visa and MasterCard, Gold Visa and MasterCard, Visa Platinum and HSBC Premier MasterCard credit cards, HSBC credit cards come with the assurance of belonging to one of the leading banking and financial services organisations in the world, as well as belonging to a global network that offers unmatchable and exclusive privileges and benefits.

Civimech granted HVACR contractor

Civimech (Pvt) Limited and Air Conditioning Company was granted HVACR contractor of the year award 2008 by American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers Inc. (ASHRAE), at Ceylon Continental Hotel Colombo recently.





