Infrastructure gets priority

Equal employment opportunities for all:

Rasika Somarathna

Priority has been given to the development of infrastructure facilities. The key sectors of electricity, highways, irrigation, water supply, ports and airports, transport facilities, cities and investment zones have been prioritized for development throughout the country, President Mahinda Rajapaksa said.

Addressing a UPFA election rally in Ruwanwella yesterday the President said development, which was largely confined to Colombo earlier was spread to the village level.

"Our policies for the future of Sri Lanka which are already being implemented include community based rural development for the empowerment of the poor.

"In addition we have also supported the growth of education and health facilities. Last year following defence the other major financial allocations were for health and education," President Rajapaksa recalled.

"We also reduced unemployment and plans are afoot to provide equal opportunities to all to gain employment. Both educated and less educated youth would be provided with opportunities based on their abilities.

"We have laid emphasis on foreign employment with the focus on enhancing opportunities to skilled professionals," he said.

The State sector which was to be cut down to 600,000 has been increased to 1.2 million, the President said outlining some of the measures taken to lay foundation for sustainable development in the country.

The President asserted that no one has the right to betray the country or the hard earned victory for narrow political gains.

The President also noted that he was elected by the people mainly to unite the country at a time when it was on the verge of being divided.

"We accepted this challenge and fulfilled people's aspirations right down to the last letter," he said.

Olympic medallist Susanthika Jayasinghe who hails from the area too got on stage to show her support to the President.

She identified the President as a sensitive and courageous leader and urged the crowd to support President Rajapaksa's second bid for Presidential stakes to the hilt.

She also added that during her sporting career she had never seen a more concerned and sensitive leader towards development of sports and sporting personnel.





