Yashoda sheds light on preserving cultural heritage

Ruwini Jayawardana

Yashoda Wimaladharma Picture by Palitha Gunasena

As you travel through Sri Lankan history and its picturesque destinations and enriching cultural experiences you would be sure to come upon certain traditional aspects which not only possess the charm and richness of the past but are fast disappearing from the present.

One such cultural heritage is Gok Kalawa, the art form which uses Gokkola (young coconut fronds) to create diverse decorative constructions. This type of folk art is not only endemic to the island but it is probably Sri Lanka's truly national art.

With breath-taking beauty and of sacred value, it is no wonder that these designs and work of art are on focus in the calendar presented by Sri Lanka Telecom for the year 2008. The company had for the past few years released calendars adorning pictures with facts connected to some of Sri Lanka's most treasured and endemic natural possessions.

This year their attention had shifted from nature to works of fine art made using Gokkola. As another point of creating awareness towards our rich heritage, lead actress Yashoda Wimaladharma expressed her opinion on the delights of Gok Kalawa.

"The origin of this form of art dates back to an era which transcends way beyond the period when Buddhism came to Sri Lanka. It was a pagan art form in villages used to worship their rural deities.

With the advent of Buddhism with its own unique form of art such as temple paintings and sculptures, the art of Gok Kalawa took a different turn," she said.

"Gokkola is the ivory coloured, tender leaves of the coconut plant. The coconut plant is one of the most treasured plant of all time as every part of it has its use. It is often referred to as the Kapruka," Yashoda explained.

A significant feature connected with this form of art is it retains a strong association with the planetary forces of astrology, the rituals of exorcism and blessing. For instance, a portrayal of the Pun Kalasa is a symbol of abundance and prosperity.

Pun Kalasa

Magul Poruwa

Gok Pahana

Therefore in most traditional Sinhala marriage ceremonies this auspicious abject is kept near the Magul Poruwa. The traditional Magul Poruwa itself is made of Gokkola and a fresh creation is made for each wedding couple as a representation of their new life.

You may be able to recall that each Magul Poruwa differs from the other. Some showcase a twin-swan design while others represent lotus flowers or any design found in ancient sculptures and frescos. The sun and moon designs of the Gokkola Sesath on either side represents a pledge that the couple will never be parted until there is day and night.

"It is considered as one of the five mythical objects sacred to gods. Those days the Pun Kalasa was made of Gokkola. The pleasant fragrance set off by the tender leaves brought a refreshing feeling to your mind.

You did not need any other form of air fresheners. Unfortunately this custom is fading away as people are on the verge of using substitutes such as gold painted pots for decor," she expressed adding that apart from marriage ceremonies it is also used in religious rituals such as Tovils, Shanthikarmas and at Pirith Mandapayas as well as for house-warming events.

"This enhances the power of the sermons and adds to the bountifulness evoked by the chants," Yashoda said. Similarly the Kumara Kalasa is a clay pot adorned in Gokkola which is used in the Kalu Kumara Samayama, a ritual practiced to exorcise the malefic influence of the demon called Kalu Kumaraya (dark prince) off young women.

"Hindu traditions are also embedded in our practices. We possess a mixed culture," she pointed out.

"Our traditions and culture is unique. These practices are not found anywhere else in the world. That should be our foundation in approaching other new trends. As a person who has a passion for what is ours I believe that more importance should be given to this form of art. It should be preserved for future generations."

##############################

'Skills' through photography

Wehelle Piyathilake, Maharagama special corr.

A special type of photographic exhibition organised by Handicap International titled 'Skills' is open for the public at the Fort Railway Station till January 5. 'Skills' is a travelling photo exhibition featuring the works of four reputed photographers: Manika Vanderpooten, Gemunu Amarasinghe, Anoma Rajakaruna and Philippe Merchez who have captured the essence of the vocational abilities of people with disabilities.

"This exhibition will not only highlight the vocational talents of persons with disabilities, but it will also bring forth those who encourage others to take bold steps to fulfill their goals and aspirations," head of Handicap International F. Bernard told the Daily News. 'Skills' confers a message to the ordinary people on how to assist persons with disabilities.

The talents competition organised by the Development with Disabled Network (DWDN) which was sponsored by Handicap International.





