Aviation

Cooperation to keep flying secure

Geneva - The International Air Transport Association (IATA) reiterated that the security of passengers and employees is a top priority for the aviation industry.

IATA urged the United States Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and its Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to partner with industry to identify the most effective and efficient ways to address the evolving security challenge in light of the foiled terrorist plot to down a Detroit-bound aircraft.

Passengers on board

In a letter to Homeland Security Secretary Napolitano, IATA's Director General and CEO Giovanni Bisignani appreciated the swift reaction of DHS to maintain the confidence of the flying public and airline employees.

Bisignani noted the need for short-term temporary and extra-ordinary security measures until the immediate threat has abated. But he cautioned Secretary Napolitano that long-term solutions must include improved technology and effective risk assessment techniques.

"The air transport system cannot support 100% pat-down searches over the long term." IATA is recommending a smaller percentage of intensive pat downs accompanied by technologies or proportionate screening procedures as a means to achieve near-term security requirements with reduced delays.

While security is a government responsibility, it is a shared priority with industry. Bisignani urged DHS to allow the current short-term measures to be urgently followed-up by a comprehensive DHS/industry review of security systems to address existing and evolving security threats.

The failed Detroit terror plot emphasized two key realities: the global nature of the threat and the need for effective cooperation and information sharing among and within intelligence organizations.

"Effective security needs a system that is built on global harmonization, effective information exchange, industry/government cooperation, risk assessment and efficient technology.

This is how we made flying the safest way to travel. We must take the same approach with security," Bisignani said.

Numbers illustrate the scale of the challenge. In the 12 months to September 2009, air transport connected 2.2 billion passengers safely and securely. This includes 820 million international travellers of which 140 million were international travellers on US routes.

Another component is the US domestic market which accounts for 620 million travellers. "We live on an interconnected planet. Effective security cannot be achieved with a silo-approach," said Bisignani.

As governments, with industry, review security in the days and weeks ahead, Bisignani urged a long-term re-think of the security model. "Instead of looking for bad things-nail clippers and rogue bottles of shampoo-security systems need to focus on finding bad people.

Adding new hardware to an old system will not deliver the results we need. It is time for governments to invest in a process built around a check point of the future that combines the best of screening technology with the best of intelligence gathering.

Such a system would give screeners access to important passenger data to make effective risk assessments. The data is being collected.

The technology exists. Industry is supportive. Now ICAO and governments must work together to make such a process a reality with global harmonization and data-sharing," Bisignani said.

Emirates' A380 comes full circle and heads to France

An Emirates' A380 left Dubai on December 29, bound for France and the home of its manufacturer, Airbus, as double-decker flights got underway to Paris.

The French capital is the latest destination to be served by the airline's much admired super-jumbo - after Toronto, London Heathrow, Seoul, Bangkok, Sydney, Auckland, and Jeddah from February 1.

Huge commitment - the giant Emirates' A380 pushes back in Dubai, bound for Paris, as the airline begins double-decker services to the French capital.

The demand for Emirates' services on this route has always been extremely high and it is fitting that one of our Airbus A380s is being deployed to serve France, the headquarters of Airbus, and from where the A380 story unfolded. For us, the A380 has come full circle and what a wonderful way this is to end 2009."

Obaidalla added: "Our sales remain very strong in and out of Paris Charles de Gaulle and our seventh A380 will bring some of the much needed capacity to the route.

We also expect the larger aircraft to further stimulate trade between the UAE and France."

UAE-France bilateral trade is worth billions of US dollars each year. While French investment in the UAE has traditionally focused on oil and gas, free trade zones have attracted companies such as L'Oreal, Chanel and Schneider. Food, automotive parts, furniture and interior design products also make up part of the trade picture.

France became part of the airline's European network in 1992. Nineteen weekly passenger flights into the country are made up of a double daily service to Paris and five flights into Nice, becoming daily from 1st January.

The 489-seat superjumbo will initially replace EK 073 on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Sundays. The flight leaves Dubai at 0800 hrs and arrives in Paris at 1225 hrs. The return flight, EK 074, leaves Charles De Gaulle at 1430 hrs and gets into Dubai at 2359 hrs.

As before, the second flight of the day, EK 075, departs Dubai at 1500 hrs and arrives in the French capital at 1930 hrs. Heading back, EK 076 takes off from CDG at 2105 hrs and lands in Dubai at 0635 hrs the following day.

The Emirates' A380, much of it French built, has been the talk of the industry since its introduction to the airline's fleet in July 2008. For a giant of the skies, it is surprisingly quiet, has a vastly reduced noise footprint and uses the very latest fuel-efficient technology.

Before premium passengers even board, they can enjoy the airline's dedicated luxury lounges in Paris and Dubai's Terminal 3, the envy of the world's airline community.

Inside the peerless First Class cabin, passengers can freshen up in one of the Onboard Shower Spas before joining other premium passengers to talk business and travel in the Onboard Lounge.

This outstanding facility is permanently staffed by highly trained cabin crew and fully equipped with complimentary beverages and canapes. It opens when the aircraft reaches cruising altitude and doesn't close until descent.

The A380 presents a completely different experience for Economy passengers too. More roomy cabins, more space between seats, and of course, the customary top-notch cuisine, along with the enthralling ice in-flight entertainment system.





