ICT equipment for those with special needs

Sanjeevi Jayasuriya

Technology is a must to see the world and there should be no discrimination in the accessibility to technology. Disability is not a drawback and people with special needs too should be given the opportunity to use technology, Telecommunication Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka Director General Priyantha Kariyapperuma said.

A person with special needs receiving ICT equipment from Telecommunication Regulatory Commission Director General Priyantha Kariyapperuma.

A ceremony was held yesterday to hand over ICT equipment worth Rs 8.5 million to schools, vocational training centres, Ranaviru Villages and Universities for persons with special needs under the International Telecommunication Union and Telecommunication Regulatory Commission Sri Lanka project program with the theme information communication technologies for dis-empowered and marginalized communities.

"We have a responsibility to assist people with special needs and introducing ICT would improve their quality of life. "The country is on the fast track to acquire satellite capability and it will be a reality shortly. The technological development is the key in today's context and equipment provided will be of immense benefit to the recipients," he said.

There is a greater opportunity and ability to access ICT for differently-able people as ICT plays an important role as a tool in education. Due to 30 years of war, special attention was attracted by the differently-abled people as there was an increase in the number of people falling to this category in our country, Prof. D.P.M. Weerakkody of the Peradeniya University said.

The Government needs to focus its strategies for the betterment of disempowered and marginalized people to provide them with suitable employment opportunities. We want to be a part of development and are willing to contribute our share, he said.

We consider that people with special needs are capable of many things and they should be included in the development process. It is important that they are able to access technology and project of this nature will go a long way to improve their living standards, he said.





