Matara Mauler still going strong

Dinesh WEERAWANSA

The elder statesman of Sri Lanka cricket Sanath Jayasuriya is still going great guns, proving that age is no barrier when it comes to feasting on opposing attacks and making big runs.

Jayasuriya was simply unstoppable smashing an explosive 107 in Wednesday's first one day international against India at Rangiri Dambulla International Stadium. Not only did he beat the age but also the hot weather to score his 28th ODI century.

At 39 years and 212 days, the dashing left-hander became the oldest centurion in ODIs, erasing the previous mark set by England's Geoffrey Boycott who scored his last ODI century at the age of 39 years and 51 days against Australia exactly 30 years ago.

Talking about the success story of the Master Blaster, one cannot forget the bitter experience he suffered in 2005. He was at the receiving end as the then selectors tried to dump him unceremoniously and bring a premature death to his outstanding career. Not only the selectors but also certain cricketing pundits in the media too were part of that attempted 'cricketing murder' as Jayasuriya was forced to call it a day.

Having forced the Matara Mauler to hang up his boots from Tests, the then selectors, backed by the so-called cricket media experts, dumped Jayasuriya from the ODI team as well.

It was President Mahinda Rajapaksa who played the master stroke and meted out justice and obtained a fair deal for Jayasuriya. It was in late 2005 that Jayasuriya returned to the side and was rushed to join the Sri Lanka team in Australia.

Jayasuriya responded immediately and proved that the President's move was a calculated one and repaid that confidence with a majestic century in a World Series ODI in Sydney. Jayasuriya simply let his willow to do the talking and slapped his criticts. The cricketing experts, for whom Jayasuriya's age was a big headache, were ultimately compelled to throw their poison pens and use all the adjectives in the world to describe those great innings by Jayasuriya.

During his majestic knock, which earned him the man of the match award in Dambulla, the veteran opener became only the second batsman in the world to reach the great milestone of 13,000 runs in ODIs after Indian Sachin Tendulkar. Jayasuriya faced just 114 balls to score 107 runs with one six and ten boundaries, which speaks volumes for his resilience and the manner in which he bashed the Indian bowlers.

Born on June 30, 1969 in the southern city of Matara, Sanath Teran Jayasuriya made his ODI debut for Sri Lanka as a middle order batsman scoring just three runs against Australia in a Boxing Day World Series ODI in Melbourne in 1989.

Ever since, Jayasuriya has made an immense contribution for Sri Lanka cricket.

In 428 ODIs, Jayasuriya has aggregated 13,070 runs at an average of 32.83, with 28 centuries and 67 fifties. As a versatile all-rounder, Jayasuriya has captured 311 wickets at an average of 36.62 apiece.

Despite approaching his 40th birthday in five month's time, Jayasuriya has not lost his old touch. He still remains focussed and his physical fitness too is an example to the younger generation.

Above all, he has been a caring human being. Despite going places and even winning the Most Valuable Player of the Tournament in Sri Lanka's 1996 World Cup triumph, he is still the very same Jayasuriya who used to take a bus ride from Matara to Colombo to play club cricket during the early days of his career.

Despite reaching the cricketing pinnacle, he has been a humble and down to earth person.

He still has not forgotten his humble beginnings and is an example to the present generation.

He has not let the glory he earned as a cricketing hero to destroy his humbleness and rural touch.

That has been the key to the success of this great cricketer.

No one is indispensable in this world but we are yet to find a top cricketer of his calibre to replace him. He is a born cricketer with natural talent and it would be hard to find another Jayasuriya in the near future as we are yet to see an equally good replacement.

Sanath, you have made Mother Lanka proud. Your hurricane efforts have greatly contributed to our national team's success and helped Sri Lanka to mark its position prominently in the international cricketing map.

We wish you an even richer harvest during the final lap of your distinguished career!





