New Year messages

President

"Never before has the dawn of a New Year brought welcome expectations of unity and prosperity to our nation as we see today states President Mahinda Rajapaksa in a New Year message to the nation. " The message:

"We have great confidence that the determined path we have traversed so far will result in a sustainable peace to our country and people. I am aware this will bring great joy to all of you who have watched with great patience as we proceeded in the search for peace with justice and dignity to all."

"It is my firm belief that when our nation crosses the threshold to victory it is the responsibility of us all to be united in safeguarding the future of our country.

"My Government that has taken the country on the correct path to development, while facing many challenges, has also taken the necessary steps to bring prosperity to the lives of our people.

"We have bestowed the honour of the nation on our brave and heroic troops engaged in the task of saving the country from terrorism by declaring 2009 as the "Year of Heroic Victory". On this occasion we invite all, irrespective of political party, colour or affiliation to set aside the divisive feelings of opposition, and act with unity to transform the victories so far achieved to those even greater, and work together for the bigger victories of that await us in the future."

"When the nation stands united all conspiracies against the country are defeated. It is our resolve to strengthen the determination and commitment of our people towards making this New Year the truly victorious year of the nation."

"I wish you all every success in the New Year!"

Prime Minister

"The dawn of New Year brings new expectations. The hope of everyone in the world is a better tomorrow. In order to make it a reality, we have to meet several challenges," states Prime Minister Ratnasiri Wickramanayaka in a special New Year message. The message:

"One of the major challenges is to combat terrorism.

"We are of the firm belief that success in this challenge would ease the rest. Our responsibility is to join together and enter a correct path with a new vision, new strength and common consensus.

"The fulfilment of one's responsibility will lead to secure the rights as well as justice for all.

"Today, those who live in the Eastern Province enjoy the benefits of victory. This day of peace and contentment is not very far from the people in the North.

"Whether it is day or night, our war heroes are in battle field to bring this for us all.

"I have no doubt that this New Year will bring us the light of peace.

"I wish all Sri Lankans a Happy New Year."

Media and Information Minister

The year 2009 can be described as a year which directs Sri Lankan society along a new path kindling new hopes and aspirations. As such it is with great pleasure that I extend my sincere greetings to the people of Sri Lanka for the new year, states Media and Information Minister Anura Priyadarshana Yapa in a special message.

The message said the new year will go down in history as a political era which ended military conflict and enabled people to live in a peaceful and prosperous country. The Minister said it was their good future to be peoples representatives in an era which rekindled society under a true and proper political leadership.

The path taken by us in overcoming all misfortunes which engulfed society systematically would be further strengthened in 2009. The message added that the new year will be a victorious year which ended the ethnic conflict and enabled people of all communities to celebrate it with joy. It is the prime duty of all citizens to help uplift the nation in the new year assimilating modern international trends in science and technology while upholding moral and spiritual values and Sri Lankan identity.

Happy New Year to all.

Sri Lanka's prestige enhanced globally

Rohitha Bogollagama, MP, Minister of Foreign Affairs

I have great pleasure in sending the message to all Sri Lankans at home and abroad at the dawn of the New Year - 2009.

The past year has been quite significant in raising Sri Lanka's international profile.

The notable highlight of our successful diplomacy was the hosting of the 15th SAARC Summit in Colombo, with the participation of eight Heads of State or Government and seven Observers. The assumption of the SAARC Chair has imposed a heavy responsibility on Sri Lanka.

However, Sri Lanka under the dynamic leadership of President Mahinda Rajapaksa will be equal to the task of discharging its responsibilities for the greater benefit and welfare of the peoples of the SAARC region in the coming year.

Sri Lanka's prestige on the world stage has been greatly enhanced by her high level participation in several international conferences last year. Her contribution towards the successful outcome of the deliberations at these fora has been widely acclaimed.

Among the key gatherings that Sri Lanka participated were the Boao Forum for Asia (BFA) in China, the Shangri La Dialogue in Singapore, the High Level Conference on World Food Security (World Food Summit) in Rome, the 15th ASEAN Regional Forum (ARF) in Singapore, the 15th Ministerial Meeting of the Non-aligned Movement (NAM) in Tehran, the 30th Meeting of the Commonwealth Ministerial Action Group (CMAG) in New York, the 63rd Session of the UN General Assembly in New York, the 7th Ministerial Meeting of the Asia Co-operation Dialogue (ACD) in Astana, Kazakhstan, the 2nd Summit of the Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Economic and Technical Co-operation (BIMSTEC) in New Delhi and the inaugural meeting of the Bali Democracy Forum in Indonesia.

It is noteworthy that President Rajapaksa himself led the Sri Lanka delegation to the Boao Forum, the World Food Summit, the UN General Assembly Session and the BIMSTEC Summit.

The New Year will also be an equally eventful year of high intensity for the Foreign Ministry, with several visits of Heads of State or Government to Sri Lanka and the hosting of some important regional and international conferences being planned.

The year ahead will be a challenging one for Sri Lanka as we prepare ourselves to cope with the adverse impact of the global economic downturn that has set in. In this context, I urge all our overseas Missions to rise to the challenge of securing new markets for our exports, while expanding our existing market share in the countries of their accreditation.

While appreciating their hard work and dedication in promoting the Economic Diplomacy Initiative spearheaded by the Foreign Ministry, since I assumed office as Foreign Minister, the need of the hour is for our Missions to re-dedicate themselves to achieving the set targets with renewed vigour. I also call upon the Sri Lankan diaspora to extend their wholehearted support and co-operation in this endeavour, which will directly benefit the people of Sri Lanka.

Terrorism is the common enemy of the people and by far poses the most serious challenge to democracy, human rights and other fundamental values that the people of Sri Lanka dearly cherish and have for so long taken for granted.

The LTTE has time and again demonstrated its callous disregard for the sanctity of human life through its numerous cold-blooded attacks on civilians.

The latest suicide bomb atrocity last Sunday after Mass in the vicinity of the St. Anne's Church in Wattala should disabuse the minds of those who are calling for a ceasefire, of the diabolical intent of the LTTE. Our brave Security Forces are on course to rid our motherland once and for all of the menace of terrorism.

Hence, it is incumbent upon all patriotic citizens of Sri Lanka, both at home and abroad, irrespective of racial, religious or linguistic differences, to strengthen the hand of the Government at this critical juncture to realise this objective.

I am confident that with hard work, commitment and perseverance, we will be able to usher in an era of lasting and sustainable peace and prosperity for all our people.

I take this opportunity to extend my warm and sincere greetings to all Sri Lankans, for a bright and prosperous New Year.

The dawning New Year 2009 will carry with it the traumatic residue of the economic downturn which has gripped the world with such dramatic impact so that the workers and the ordinary man on the street have been compelled to carry a huge burden of escalating living costs, downturn of economic well-being and the loss of income.

We, in Sri Lanka can consider ourselves singularly fortunate that the economic recession that is gripping the affluent countries have not touched our country with the same force as the rest of the world.

This is due to the far reaching vision enunciated in the Mahinda Chinthanaya which had been able to cushion to a great extent the fallout of the global economic crunch. But at the same time there had been a steady erosion of the living standards of the plantation workers whose toil continues to sustain to a great extent, the socio economic well-being of the Sri Lanka body politic.

Managements have developed new innovations to expose the plantation workers with increased workloads, selective plucking techniques, the reduction of work days and the deprivation of wages to tide over their own management made difficulties.

Another reason for the situation that the country is due to the continuing ethnic conflict which drains unabatedly a major portion of the wealth of the country and the lives of combatants and non combatants.

Therefore as we greet 2009 a midst the somber events that unfold amidst society, I wish to voice the hope the coming year will bring in its wake peace, prosperity and national unity that are indispensable ingredients to the well-being of the human personality.

To the plantation workers I exhaust them to rededicate themselves to the noble task of ensuring that the indomitable character of the CWC as the spokesman for the plantation community continues with renewed vigour so that they are not made the pawns for management ills.

Era to revive past glory

"The year 2009 dawns at a juncture when our gallant war heroes are gaining victory in the humanitarian operations in the North against the LTTE terrorists.

Under the able leadership of the President terrorism is being eradicated and giant development programmes are implemented to revive the past glory and splendour of our country said North Central Chief Minister Berty Premalal Dissanayake in a new year message.

Under the guidance of "Mahinda Chinthana", the farmers in the Province are on the verge of gaining a high status in their livelihood due to development activities such as cultivation of maize in 80,000 acres which had extended to only 2000 acres in 2005.

Electricity, transport and communication facilities among all other basic living facilities are being provided on a large scale to areas in the NCP once threatened by terrorism. The message requested people to shed all petty differences such as to caste, creed or religion and rally round the President and strengthen his hands to make the country prosperous, and peaceful.





