Former UNP Treasurer joins UPFA

Thilak Karunaratne, a former UNP Treasurer\ Bandaragama Organizer and former Kalutara district MP extended his support to President Mahinda Rajapaksa at a UPFA election rally in Kalutara on Saturday.

Addressing the gathering he said "I started my politics from the SLFP.

At that time I emerged first from the Kalutara district. However later I went to the UNP as I did not agree with the politics of Chandrika". "I was appointed by the UNP as its party treasurer which I held for two years. Later I came to realise that Ranil's leadership was a failure."

"I thought of quitting politics. However, when I heard about Fonseka's advent into politics I thought this would compromise the country's sovereignty and Buddhism".

"In this backdrop I thought I should support one of my oldest friends, the incumbent President Mahinda Rajapaksa".

"The people who support the retired General, harbour a common hatred towards the President. Ranil, Mangala, the JVP all are in this together. This is why they put forth Fonseka as their candidate".

"If he comes to power this hard earned victory might be reversed. So I appeal to all to support the President to prevent such an occurrence" he added.

He also noted that he had no intention to re-enter active politics from the Kalutara district which had the largest representation of Parliamentarians in the Government.

My decision to come forward was entirely based on ensuring the future security/ prosperity of the country, nation and the religion he added.

Prior to his show of solidarity with the President, Karunaratne who is also a prominent businessman had resigned from all posts he held in the UNP some time back including the post of Treasurer and had stated that he would continue to remain as an ordinary member of the party.

At that time he had reportedly cited the UNP leader's demeaning statements on the war victory, the UNP-SLFP(-M) pact and the new trends in the UNP as reasons for his resignation.





