Global predictions for 2008

"Avoid making predictions - especially about the future." -Sam Goldwyn

The Summer Olympics and spectacular new Beijing architecture erases the tainted-import stories of 2007.

Dynamic French president Nicolas Sarkozy emerges as the leading voice for Europe, abetted by British PM Gordon Brown, less of a Europhile than his predecessor.

The recent addition to Europe's passport-free Schengen zone of nine members, bringing the total to 24 countries with 400 million people, prods a 2008 expansion to include Switzerland, one of the world's most isolationist nations.

This increases pressure on Britain to join on economic grounds of lower transport costs, and on Russia not to thwart Ukraine, Romania and other former Soviet satellite states from membership in an economic power bloc already eclipsing the U.S.

Afghanistan and Pakistan's western border region finally become the central front in the struggle against terrorism by Islamic extremists, as they should have been from the start.

The pro-U.S. Sarkozy sends additional troops which, in contrast with the current French concentration in relatively stable Kabul, are deployed in the more dangerous east and south, bolstering Canadian and British forces in Kandahar and Hellmand provinces.

Britain increases its troops in the southwest, and Australia joins the cause. The U.S. steps up its redeployment of forces from Iraq to Afghanistan.

In part to enhance his party's electoral prospects in Quebec, Stephen Harper unveils a revamped reconstruction and humanitarian-relief program for Afghanistan.

In referenda, Colombia and ethnically divided Belgium narrowly vote against national breakups. Kosovo and Chechnya continue to lack sufficient outside support to separate from Serbia and Russia, respectively, although Kosovo unilaterally declares its independence. 7. Newly elected Russian president Dmitry Medvedev, 42, is predecessor Vladimir Putin's puppet, as expected, but the Deep Purple music fan starts calling his own shots by year-end.

Kevin Rudd, new Australian PM after defeating John Howard last year, rejects Australia's George W. Bush-granted status as America's local "sheriff." The Aussies continue their decades-old humanitarian and conflict-resolution work in the Solomons and elsewhere in the region but on their own terms.

Stephen Harper forms a second minority government in a fall election. Stephane Dion retires from the Liberal leadership after a miserable Grit showing.

In a narrow victory over John McCain, Hillary Rodham Clinton is elected 44th U.S. president.

Barack Obama accepts president-elect Clinton's offer to nominate him U.S. Secretary of State.

Food is the new oil. Biofuel and developing-world demand will keep soaring prices for wheat, corn and other agricultural commodities high. Investors like fertilizer giant Potash Corp., grain handlers Agrium and Viterra (the former Saskatchewan Wheat Pool), and farm-equipment makers Deere, Caterpillar and Case New Holland gain.

Nuke stocks glow. North America is slowly shedding its wariness of nuclear power, also poised for big gains in Europe and Asia. Investors go for uranium producers including Canada's Cameco, and turbine makers GE and France's Alstom.

GM emerges as an unlikely turnaround play, as benefits begin to kick in from production cuts, reduced healthcare burden and more vehicles with showroom appeal.

With a massive oil discovery off its Atlantic coast this summer, Brazil is poised to attain the status of an OPEC producer, and may well join OPEC by 2010.

Rupert Murdoch, whose long ownership tenure at the Times of London has not restored the Times' prestige, surprises fretful journos by making only cosmetic changes to his newly acquired Wall Street Journal.





