1. The speech processor captures sound and converts it into digital code

2. The speech processor transmits the digitally coded sound through the coil to the implant just under the skin.

3. The implant converts the digitally coded sound to electrical signals and sends them along the electrode array, which is positioned in the cochlea.

4. The implant's electrodes stimulate the cochlea's hearing nerve fibres, which relay the sound signals to the brain to produce hearing sensations.

How the ear hears

1. Sound waves move through the ear canal and strike the eardrum.

2. These sound waves cause the eardrum, and the three bones within the middle ear, to vibrate.

3. The vibrations ripple through the fluid in the spiral inner ear known as the cochlea - and cause the tiny hair cells in the cochlea to move.

4. The hair cells absorb the movement and change it into electric impulses, which are sent to the hearing nerve and then to the brain, where they are interpreted as sound.

Ent surgeon Dr.Yasawardena LRH Colombo

Brush your teeth and avoid heart attacks and strokes

Dr. D.P. Atukorala

Subsequently in a prospective study of 214 individuals with CHD followed up for 7 years, dental health was significantly a predictor of coronary events when controlled for following factors, age, sex, socio-economic status, smoking, hypertension, number of previous infarcts, diabetes, BMI, and serum lipids (Clinics of Infectious diseases 1998, 26, 719-734).

In a recent study periodontal disease was found in 48 per cent of patents with myocardial infarction, compared with 17 per cent of controls (American Heart journal 2004, 147).

Major clinical implications from these studies apply to both primary and secondary prevention of CHD a strong (20-30 per cent) reduction in coronary events and stokes can expected both in healthy persons and in those with CHD and strokes who achieve and anti-risk lifestyle changes including use of statins and blood pressure control.

At present there is no proof that anaerobic periodontal infections can be treated with short term use of metronidazole given for a period of 5 years.

Inactivity, obesity and cancer risk

Where are we heading being inactive and becoming obese. As we have stressed earlier the risk factors may be deadly than we think. Many studies have been carried out in the developed world to show the evidence that cancer is the hottest risk associated with this.

Diet-related factors such as obesity and physical inactivity have also been associated with increased cancer risk. According to the Institute of Medicine's report "Fulfilling the Potential of Cancer Prevention and Early Detection," obesity is strongly associated with cancer incidence and mortality than any other lifestyle factors except smoking.

The report also indicated that if current obesity trends continue, the adverse effects will be seen on breast and colon cancers by 2015.

Walter Willett, MD, MPH, Dr. PH, Chairman of Harvard University's nutrition department, has stated that besides avoiding tobacco, staying lean and active provides the greatest potential for minimizing cancer risk. The ACS agrees that for nonsmoking Americans, increasing physical activity and maintaining a healthy weight are the most important approaches to reducing the risk of developing cancer.

There is firm evidence that overweight and obesity are related to increased risks of six of the most prevalent forms of cancer: colon, endometrial, kidney esophageal, prostate, and postmenopausal breast cancers. Associations have also been shown with gallbladder and pancreatic cancers.

A report issued by the WHO International Agency for Research on Cancer estimated that being overweight and inactive accounts for one quarter to one third of worldwide cases of breast, colon, endometrial, kidney and esophageal cancers.

The AICR has noted that 10 per cent of all U.S. cancer deaths among nonsmokers are caused by overweight and obesity.

A large study reported in 2004 that excess body mass accounted for 7.7 per cent of all cancers in Canada, providing on going evidence that obesity increases the risk of overall cancer.

A study in 2005 by Danaei and colleagues showed that in high-income countries, overweight and obesity were among the most important causes of cancer affecting the colon, uterus, gallbladder, kidney and postmenopausal breast sites.

In the largest U.S. study to date, researchers followed more than 900,000 men and women for 16 years and found that as BMI increased and so did the risk of death from most types of cancer.

They estimated that being overweight or obese could account for 14 per cent of all cancer deaths in U.S. men and 20 per cent in U.S. women.

This means that 90,000 cancer deaths annually could be prevented if Americans maintain a healthy body weight.

Courtesy Slimlife

Reuters Health News Summary

Following is a summary of current health news briefs.

Obese men have worse sperm quality than leaner men

Obese men are more than three times as likely to have low sperm counts compared with their normal-weight peers, a study out this month in the journal Fertility and Sterility shows.

The heaviest men were also at triple the risk of having a low count of progressively motile sperm — sperm that swim forward in a straight line, Dr. Ahmad O. Hammoud of the University of Utah in Salt Lake City and colleagues found.

Researchers unlock secrets of 1918 flu pandemic

Researchers have found out what made the 1918 flu pandemic so deadly — a group of three genes that lets the virus invade the lungs and cause pneumonia.

They mixed samples of the 1918 influenza strain with modern seasonal flu viruses to find the three genes and said their study might help in the development of new flu drugs.

Key gene linked to high blood pressure identified

A gene that affects how the kidneys process salt may help determine a person's risk of high blood pressure, a discovery that could lead to better ways to treat the condition, researchers said on Monday.

People with a common variant of the gene STK39 tend to have higher blood pressure levels and are more likely to develop full-blown high blood pressure, also called hypertension, University of Maryland School of Medicine researchers found.

Dad's involvement during pregnancy is key: study

Fathers who are involved in their children's prenatal care are more likely to be around for the long haul, whether they marry the child's mother or not, new study findings suggest.

The findings, say researchers, suggest that such early involvement — even more so than marriage, per se — is crucial to starting a bond between father and child.

Monthly newsletter helps new parents

Monthly newsletters with parenting tips may offer a simple, low-cost way to help new parents through their baby's first year, a new study suggests. The study followed 185 UK mothers who were randomly assigned to either receive the monthly "Baby Express" newsletter or stick with routine child healthcare alone.

A total of 152 mothers completed the year-long trial.

Doctors accept cold water baths and swimming:

Effective depression and pain relievers

Cold water baths and swimming an effective depression and pain reliever.

Recent studies on natures medicine for health and wellness has proved this and this is now accepted by the medical profession in the world, says the Bio-Medical Science graduate Manohari Wickremarrachi BSc (SL) MSc Bio Med Sc (UK) MPhil. Mol.Bio (UK).

She was speaking to the Healthwatch on Hydrotherapy for good health in your home.

She said "As a scientist, I always wonder about the unseen forces of nature that are around us.

It makes me happy, as it is to most of us I am sure to look at the starry night sky and to think about all the powers of the universe some of which are yet to discover.

Among the discovered in water is the Ozone Ultrasonic Aroma Hydrotherapy which amazed me. How this has helped to heel and comfort Diabetic, Arthritis Asthma, Skin conditions, Paralysis Cancer and Homonal Imbalances is truely unbelievable.

Medicinal benefits of Hydrotherapy

Hydrotherapy refers to the medicinal use of water, including hot tubs, cold water treatments, ice packs, vapours, saunas, mineral springs, hot springs, sitz baths, wet towel applications, water exercises, and water massage. hydrotherapy immersion waters available at spas may be rich in specific minerals or enhanced with aromatic oils or herbs. Many different forms of hydrotherapy are practised around the world.

Hydrotherapy also supplies fresh nutrients and oxygen to injured tissue and helps with the removal of waste products. In injuries alternate applications of heat and cold accelerate healing by improving blood vessel integrity and muscle tone. Heat causes peripheral (surface) blood vessels to dilate or expand. Cold causes peripheral blood vessels to constrict and drives blood back to the organs.

Conditions that Benefit from Hydrotherapy

Hydrotherapy aids the rehabilitation process in injuries and stroke, and it improves respiratory infections.

Hydrotherapy is also known to reduce pain and inflammation in arthritis and other rheumatologic conditions. In addition, hydrotherapy reduces the effects of stress by increasing endorphin production, improves sleep, and prevents headaches.

Recent studies also show that cold water treatments, including swimming, are potentially effective treatments for depression and also offer pain relief. In patients undergoing strength training, hydrotherapy has also been found to improve recovery times.

Upper Respiratory Infections, Pneumonia

In patients with upper respiratory infections, asthma, colds, influenza, bronchitis, and pneumonia, vaporizers, hot tub sessions, and saunas help to open airways and help white blood cells circulate to the affected areas, promoting healing and increasing respiration.

Rheumatoid arthritis

Patients with rheumatoid arthritis benefit from hot tubs, especially when used in conjunction with massage or water exercises. hydrotherapy reduces joint pain by reducing inflammation and increasing blood flow.

According to researches at the National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine (NCCAM) at the National Institutes of Health, a small number of controlled studies have been done on hydrotherapy for rheumatoid arthritis, most based on sea-bath treatments given in Israel's Dead Sea area. Most of these studies reported beneficial results.

However, there have been quality issues noted with these studies, and it is not considered proven that the hydrotherapy itself provided the benefits for RA claimed in these studies.

Larger and better studies are needed to answer this question. Study authors have noted that there could be other reasons for benefits, such as travelling to a spa, being removed from one's daily routine, relaxation, socializing, and attitude.





