Online edition of Daily News - Lakehouse NewspapersThe LTTE faced its biggest battle reversal in a single day on Sunday in their bid to breach the 58 Division defences in Ampalavanpokkanai South of Chalai as troops recovered 82 Tiger bodies and 186 T-56 weapons yesterday after the fiercest battles military sources told the Daily News. "It has been observed that dozens of other Tiger cadres were killed and scores injured and disabled in the fierce counter attack launched by the 58 Division troops foiling the Tiger bid to breach Security Forces defences", a senior military official told the Daily News. "A number of bodies of the Tiger cadres were also seen floating in the lagoon in the South of Chalai as troops carried out further search operations to trace Tiger cadres who had infiltrated into jungle patches in the South of Chalai", sources added. Military officials told the Daily News that the LTTE suffered the biggest beating at the hands of the Security Forces and retreated abandoning their attempt halfway after more than 100 of their cadres were killed in their aborted mission. The 58 Division troops supported by Commando troops Special Forces troops foiled a major attempt by the well trained cadres from the Radha Regiment and Charles Anthony Brigades to breach the Security Forces defences on Sunday for the fourth consecutive day. They were supported by the Sri Lanka Air Force through their close air support and by the barrages of artillery fire from ground troops. Apart from the 186 T-56 guns, troops also recovered two 12.7 mm heavy machine guns, two Light Machine Guns, nine Rocket Propelled Grenades, 15 I-com sets and 15 radio sets, four 60 mm mortars, two T-81 guns. Military sources also said that the fate of many Tiger leaders entrapped in the ensuing battle were not known and some bodies believed to be of Tiger leaders are yet to be identified by troops. According to ground troops more than 250 Tiger cadres were killed in battles along the 58 Division front since Thursday morning as they have recovered more than 150 Tiger bodies by yesterday afternoon. Meanwhile, the Security Forces are also advancing on the last terrain of the LTTE, from a North to South direction closer to the safe zone.



