Mega Lifesciences launches GLOW in India

After the successful launch of GLOW in various markets like Thailand, Vietnam, Phillipines, Malaysia, Ukraine, Russia and Sri Lanka, GLOW was introduced in India for the first time.

Country Head Sri Lanka for Mega LifeSciences, Praveen Viswakumaran said GLOW's success in Sri Lanka, was highlighted at the Indian launch, with none other than former beauty queen Rozanne Diasz being present.

"Rozanne Diasz, Miss Sri Lanka for Miss Universe 2005 was the first girl in Sri Lanka to become a brand ambassador for GLOW, hence it was only fitting that she attended the press conference in New Delhi's Continental Hotel and shared her GLOW experience", said Viswakumaran.

GLOW contains various plant extracts and marine proteins that help nourish the skin, keeping it healthy, radiant and glowing. GLOW is a dietary supplement and hence complements one's diet.

GLOW is 100 per cent natural, safe and a very effective food supplement. Under the guidance of Dr Fabrice Perin from the Spin Control Institute of France, a study was undertaken on GLOW which concluded that GLOW improves the complexion or colour or health of the skin by 40 per cent, the luminosity or shine of the skin by 21 per cent, the brightness of the skin by 51 per cent and softness or fineness of the skin by 51 per cent.

Glow helps fight free radicals and supplements collagen (proteins which make up more than 75 per cent of the skin) making the skin smooth and wrinkle free.

Glow is targeted at women who are conscious about their inner beauty while men can also use it.

Dr. Smith Sain, a leading cosmetologist, spoke on the occasion and emphasized the importance of healthy eating, as well as the intake of food supplements such as GLOW to one's diet regime so as to keep the skin in the best of health.

Regional Director Sudhir Gandhi added that Mega Lifesciences started its operations 25 years ago in Thailand, doing original equipment manufacturing and leading in soft gel capsule manufacturing.

Ambassador: Muralitharan receiving Ceylinco Life's congratulatory plaque from R. Renganathan in the presence of directors and senior staff of Ceylinco Life and Muralitharan's Manager Kushil Gunasekera.

Test cricket's leading wicket taker of all time Muttiah Muralitharan has been felicitated by his life insurance partner Ceylinco Life on achieving this historic milestone.

Murali, who is an ambassador for Ceylinco Life's campaign to create greater awareness in Sri Lanka about the value and need for life insurance, was presented with a congratulatory plaque by the company recently.

"Murali's image as a great sportsman and family man has helped us promote life insurance as an essential safety net for families," said Ceylinco Life's Chief Executive Director R. Renganathan.

"By becoming the highest wicket taker in test cricket, he has also given Sri Lankans something to be proud about, and it gives us great pleasure to have Murali on our team."

Ceylinco Life's 'Life, Love, Protection' campaign is designed to build better understanding at a generic level, of the need for and value of life insurance, rather than to promote specific insurance products.

Studies by Ceylinco Life have indicated that one of the causes for the relatively low penetration of life insurance in the local market is a lack of understanding of the rationale for these products.

Shell helps generate power for better lifestyle

Shell Gas has not only changed the lifestyle of many Sri Lankan housewives by providing a clean, convenient and safe cooking fuel, but is forging ahead to protect the natural beauty of Sri Lanka by offering alternative energy for power generators and water pumps for agricultural, industrial and residential use.

In lush areas untouched by human hands, Shell has taken steps to support the economy of Sri Lanka by joining hands with Cimplus Lanka (Pvt) Limited to promote LPG powered Generators and Water Pumps via its islandwide distribution channel to areas where no grid power or proper irrigation methods are available.

A Memorandum of Understanding was signed recently between Shell Gas Lanka Limited and Cimplus Lanka (Pvt) Limited thus strengthening their impact in enhancing the lifestyle of Sri Lankans by offering rural electrification through LPG powered generators as an alternative to kerosene lamps and the more expensive solar panels together with eco-friendly LPG powered water pumps for households and the agricultural sector.

The capacity of generators range from 700w to 5,000w and single phase to three phase. Customers will be offered a total energy solution that will include a new 12.5 kg Shell Gas cylinder, an LPG hose, regulator and clips.

Currently, the cost of fuel to generate this power for this application is much lower than the cost of petrol & diesel.

While uplifting the life style of the rural sector where access to the main grid is not available and alternate methods are too expensive, Shell has taken a positive measure to protect the environment of Sri Lanka.

JWT entrusts SLT for communication solution

Sri Lanka Telecom, the nation's number one integrated communications service provider has signed an agreement with JWT, to provide a total communications solution.

Under the agreement SLT will provide voice, broadband internet and data services with seamless connectivity to meet JWT's communication requirement to make their operations smoother.

Speaking on the agreement, Priyantha Perera, Chief Marketing Officer of SLT said, "The advertising industry in Sri Lanka is going through a major transition, by gradually moving away from the traditional advertising format.

The latest technologies play a major role in that transition. As the exclusive communication service provider of JWT, we aim to empower the company so that they can produce world-class advertising materials."

Thus agencies need to be specialised in these areas, with many, like JWT, investing in building up core strengths with regards to technology," he added.

The agreement is projected to cut down costs of communication as well as increase productivity, resulting from cost effective real time communications.

Also reliability, quality of service, better service level and customised solution offered by SLT, which is based on their requirement, are the other benefits.

The solution is flexible as well as scalable to suit the JWT's future communication needs and helps with direct cost saving. It also goes a long way in making their operations smoother through fast information gathering, the production of good quality adverts as well as sharing this with clients as they have superior high bandwidth connectivity.

The company will also have the freedom to access large files and attachments as well as image banks and access to online purchasing of images.

Associate Vice President and Director JWT Nasser Mohamed said an integrated communication infrastructure was necessary for the agency to spearhead its aspirations in the area of digital media.

We also need to manage cost and time efficiencies to link with 200 offices globally and facilitating the sharing of information. In the future a quarter of JWT's training will be moved to internet based applications where creative, account management and planning staff will be trained on-line in their offices from London.





