Managing marketing

As in the case of any discipline, Marketing needs to be managed to deliver results. There are highly qualified Marketing Managers who are unable to deliver the required results. This article will address the reasons that certain Marketing Managers cannot achieve the given targets and how they can perform better.

Qualified and experienced Marketing Managers do not deliver results in certain instances. Why?

There is a distinct difference between planning and execution. You can prepare excellent plans, but you need to execute the plan through people to achieve results. This is where the problem is. Certain qualified Marketing Managers simply do not know to manage people. They de-motivate their teams and do not provide the required leadership.

Are certain Marketing Managers poor decision makers?

Yes. In marketing you are constantly required to make decisions based on external market developments. Hence, quick and decisive decision making is a must.

What are the skills that the modern Marketing Manager requires?

The list is quite exhaustive. Let me endeavour to highlight a few very important skills. Managing people is top of the agenda. Marketing is always a team game and Marketing Managers must be able to motivate, guide and coach their teams.

Excellent communication is another skill including listening and reading body language. Decision making in a quick and rational manner is very important. Also the ability to think out-of-the-box and develop/execute creative marketing strategies.

Marketing Managers should also be able to understand and analyze financial data, relevant to marketing decision making.

What unique aspects about marketing teams, should Marketing Managers need to understand?

Marketers by nature are friendly, target oriented and execution specialists. They need challenges and mountains to climb. They work hard and play hard at all times.

Hence, Marketing Managers must provide their team members challenges and opportunities to showcase their achievements. A friendly and team based cultural environment must be created within marketing departments.

How much should Marketing Managers empower their teams?

Generally, a high level of empowerment is desired! However, the extent of empowerment depends upon the composition of the team.

If the team is mature and experienced, a high level of empowerment is ideal. If the team is young and inexperienced, empowerment needs to be done selectively.

Marketing personnel are motivated by empowerment, recognition and challenges. They need to be kept challenged at all times.

To what extent should a Marketing Manager be involved in recruiting his or her team?

This should always be the case. Marketing Managers must take ownership and be totally involved in recruiting their teams. After all your team is as good as you, and you are as good as your team.

Marketing Managers should be able to develop job descriptions, personal Specifications and conduct recruitment interviews. Hence, certain HR skills are required and must be developed.

Should Marketing Managers motivate their staff through financial rewards only?

Financial rewards motivate all team members not only marketeers. However, since Marketeers are very target oriented, they are naturally highly motivated by commissions and incentives.

However, there are several non financial reward mechanisms that marketeers can be motivated with. For example career development, recognition, performance awards, leadership projects to name a few.

What is the best method to develop marketing plans?

In my view a participatory approach is the best, where all team members contribute their ideas and strategies. Most importantly, team members must feel a sense of ownership and pride in their marketing plans, which in turn builds commitment and motivation.

How can Marketing Managers be more accountable to their organizations and shareholders?

In general there is a perception that Marketeers are spendthrifts and love to request for large financial budgets.

Whilst this is partly true, the nature of marketing is that you need to spend to earn revenue.

Marketing Managers can be more accountable to their organizations by evaluating all marketing programs, justifying all expenses and becoming more financial savvy.

"Marketing Managers need to be leaders, coaches, mentors and guides to their teams at all times."





