DIG Nimal Lewke having the last laugh

Senior Deputy Inspector of Police and former President of the Sri Lanka Rugby Football Union, Nimal Lewke must be having the last laugh now that the Auditor General has vindicated his committee and him of financial mismanagement or abuse of power.

Lewke an officer and gentleman, has never had his honesty and integrity ever questioned. From the time he took to sport, especially handling the oval ball, which was the sport he liked, enjoyed best and revelled, he has always been an example.

As usual when Lewke was riding a crest of a wave of success as President of the SLRFU and doing wonderful things for the player, the game and the administration, the green eyed monsters began to appear and get into top gear in damaging his reputation.

Disgruntled critics

It is now accepted that stones are thrown only on trees that bear fruit. When Lewke was at the helm of the SLRFU, he was a tree that was bearing fruit and his disgruntled critics unable to taste the sweet fruits started spraying poisoned weeds in an endeavour to stall his forward march.

But Lewke who was in the forefront of the war, serving with unquestionable dedication, loyalty and commitment in the terror in the North and East was not afraid to go ahead with the good things he was doing for the game and went his merry way, which further antagonized his frustrated and disgruntled critics.

What was unacceptable was the adverse publicity he received even before the facts of the case was known. He was taken to the cleaners. This was all manipulated by his critics who failed to have their own way in the running of the SLRFU.

True to himself

But Lewke who has rarely known to taste defeat during his playing career, was biding his time and while everyone was belittling him, he was confident and true to himself and was aware that justice would be delivered and he would finally emerge the VICTOR.

And that VICTORY that he treasures most came in the form of the clearance by the Auditor General.

I have known Lewke from the time he joined the Police Department as a Sub Inspector and if I remember right in the 1970s. After a glittering sports career at St Sylvester's College, Kandy , especially as a champion boxer, he took to rugby at the Police like a duck to water.

Excelling as a flanker, Lewke was in a class of his own and many were the Police teams he helped emerge champions with his intelligent and daring play. He was always a team man giving his 100 per cent and more to whoever was captain and always saw to it that his team was the best. He led the Police team to win the coveted Clifford Cup in 1980.

Great determination

National honours came automatically to him and he took the field with great determination and played to the best of his ability. To him it was not the winning or losing that mattered, but how one played the game. And that he did in the manner born.

After playing the game with great honour and quitting when everyone was asking why, he took to coaching and what a marvellous job he did. Be it the Police the clubs, schools or as national coach he did a magnificent job and made champions of his chargers by example.

As national coach his most memorable moment was when he saw his team win the four-nation rugby tournament of Malaysia in 1999.

His crowning moment was when he kept on making champions of Kandy Sports Club for years and years. He showed the Kandy players how, and today they are continuing the good work which is testimony to Lewke's teaching and showing them how. Kandy must always remember Lewke with gratitude.

Administrators of class

During Kandy's glory days administrators of the class of Malik Samarawickrema and Kishin Butani cannot be forgotten. While Lewke and the players mowed down all opposition before them in the rugby scene, Samarawickrema and Butani acted the guardian angels and scrummed in the all important finances that made Kandy Sports Club the champions of Sri Lanka rugby.

Lewke, now that he has been cleared, must see that his critics are not allowed to go scott free. They too must be put through the pain and agony that he was made to suffer for no fault of his. As for us Senior DIG Nimal Lewke is a legend.

Credit to Sri Lanka Cricket

It has been amazing to watch all the youngsters given a go in the Tri-nation tourney in Bangladesh performing beyond expectations.

Most of the credit for this must go to Sri Lanka Cricket for providing the youngsters with every thing they want and most importantly embracing them as professional cricketers by giving them lucrative contracts.

Any sportsman or woman must first of all have peace of mind to perform. With the SLC giving them contracts that to an extent has given them the peace of mind to perform. Contracted players from 25 have been increased to 78 which is fantastic.

The youngsters have provided the best of practice facilities allowed to the national players and they have been put in-charge of some excellent coaches in Aravinda de Silva, Upul Chandana and Naveed Nawaz who are giving them a good basic grounding.

Many foreign tours

SLC has arranged many foreign tours for the juniors - Under 19, A team and Academy. The youngsters are provided with the necessary training in the field of IT and social etiquette, grooming and enhancing their professional and personal life to fit into any other path such as coaching and administration.

Sri Lanka Cricket has also been fortunate to have a very dedicated coaching staff and young set of curators who provide excellent and practice pitches. It is now for the youngsters to take it from there.





