Exhibition provides fun and frolics for Jaffna children

Dhaneshi Yatawara reporting from Jaffna

Youth enjoying themselves at the carnival grounds.

Vinodha, a charming girl in her youth, was waiting with her sister Vinodini near the fence of the Jaffna Central College grounds till her parents return with the lunch packets distributed by the Army personnel at the carnival grounds.

She was standing under the tree shade just next to the stall temporarily put up by the Army to distribute 10,000 food parcels to the spectators of the 'Future Minds of Jaffna' exhibition.

Vinodha, a student of the Manipai Memorial College, found the exhibition and the carnival very exciting. Like Vinodha many teenagers loved this exhibition. Youngsters, coming to the exhibition cum carnival in cliques, were having a 'cool' time. From the elderly person to the youngest all had their places in this event.

The carnival grounds and exhibition stalls at the Jaffna Central College and Vembadi Girls' High School premises were thickly crowded. People were enjoying themselves under the scorching sun and the dusty winds.

Children were playing, women and men were chatting and busily buying grocery items for the coming new year. The miniature train was taking children as well as young at heart on the fun ride, the accelerating noise of the motor bikes riding in the 'death well' could be continuously heard at a distance, the giant wheel never ran out of children and youth. It was a fantastic carnival.

Minister of Social Services and Social Welfare Dougles Devananda and Head of Peace Secretariat Prof. Rajiva Wijesinha and Army senior officials welcoming at the exhibition.

'The Future Minds of Jaffna - 2008', the mega Industrial and Educational Exhibition concluded on the eve of 2009 setting a landmark in the history of Jaffna.

"For the past twenty years I have not seen something like this. This is really good time to enjoy. I feel very happy about this," Sundaralingum (70) said. Sundaralingum, a resident of the Jaffna town area was getting ready to have lunch with his granddaughter and grandson at a shady corner of the college ground. "When the Tigers were around we had a very difficult time.

Those days were scary," he said unfolding his bitter experiences. At least by now people can attend to their day to day needs without harassment and spend the nights peacefully. People were really feeling very relaxed and cheerful.

Separated from India by a narrow strip of sea, Jaffna, the Yalpanam was the home for many distinguished citizens of our motherland. Out of a total area of 983.6 square kilometers, 955.7 have been cleared leaving only 27.9 as uncleared areas. 546,507 children, women and men are living in the Jaffna district, according to the statistics available with the 'Kachcheri'. Only Vadamarachchi East is left uncleared.

Some of the school children at the exhibition stalls.

For over two decades the Jaffna people, specially the children and the youth, were severely affected in that they were denied the opportunities for advancement in life. The Jaffna Security Forces Commander, Major General G. A. Chandrasiri meanwhile initiated the idea of holding an event encompassing education, industry and entertainment - a greater opportunity than all the previous ones.

When looking back at all previous events organized by the Jaffna security Forces - i.e. the trade fair in April 2008 and 'Reawakening Jaffna' the mega musical show and carnival in May 2008, it seems the Jaffna people have placed their fullest trust in the organizers of the future minds of Jaffna exhibition. Jaffna is turning safe and peaceful day by day.

"We are trying to instal a meaningful future free of terrorism and lawlessness, to the "reawakened Jaffna and its people", Major General Chandrasiri pointed out expressing his satisfaction in concluding this significant event.

There was a number of sponsors who offered their fullest support to this historic event. Most of the leading business establishments in Colombo and several other main cities in the country participated at the event. They were proud of becoming partners of the great effort made by the Government and the Security Forces to uplift the standard of life of the people in Jaffna.

Stalls at the exhibition.

The Peace Secretariat headed by Professor Rajiva Wijesinha took the total responsibility of coordinating the event. All the State and private sector banks operating in Jaffna, private airlines, Jaffna traders societies fully cooperated to make this event a total success. "Jaffna is at the right atmosphere to initiate development.

A lot of investments need to come in for the economic development," Peace Secretariat Secretary General Prof. Rajiva Wijesinha said thanking the Security Forces and the Major General Chandrasiri for taking steps to go that extra mile until a sense of change in the lives of the people.

Apart from the Colombo business community many local traders were benefited by the exhibition. They were able to display their products, attracting more business. Maheswaran from Inuvil area was busy with his customers at his palmyrah products stall at the Jaffna Central College primary section.

"Business is good. I received several orders to supply baskets, small purses and brushes for several private companies," Maheswaran said with a gleaming face. Apart from the private traders, the Palmyrah Development Board attracted more customers with their variety of quality products at reasonable prices.

Jaya and Sarojini were running their stall for the Colombothurai Women's Society. They had different kinds of coir products and bed linen which around 200 families in the area make for orders.

On the request of Social Services and Social Welfare Minister, Douglas Devananda, the Jaffna District Secretariat had organized an Arts and Culture Department. represented by all the 15 D.S. divisions of the district. This was in a separate building where all the creations of local artists were on display along with a large number of antiques belonging to several families in the area.

From Nagadeepa island, 145 schoolchildren came to visit the exhibition along with the chief priest of Nagadeepa Vihara, Ven. Nawadangala Padumakiththithissa Thera, principals of the two schools and teachers as well.

Sunil Perera and Monika Bent from Kandy, the couple running the show at the 'death well', said the crowd gathered were amazing. "This is just like any other carnival you find in other parts of the country. We didn't see any tension among the crowd," Monica said after finishing her rounds in riding the motor bike in the 'death well'.

Army personnel distributing lunch packets.

The dark, gloomy days are gone; gone beyond the seas. The coordination between the civilians and civil and military authorities is exemplary. We are paying more attention to the voices of terrorist victims than those of the terrorists.

"I'm aware of the expectations of the Sinhalese, Tamils, Muslims, Malays and Burgers who are the children of Mother Lanka. Their expectations can be made a reality. I have that confidence with me. I will certainly fulfil it. Let us love challenges," President Mahinda Rajapaksa concluded his Budget speech at the Parliament last November 6, inviting all the citizens to march together to ensure a better future for the country.

It is the ambition of the leader of the country to take a fresh path towards an undivided country, a majority of consensus and a dignified peace.

Though the battle against terrorism seems to be on the correct track the Sri Lanka Army will sometimes have to face the most critical and sensitive ground realities.

Even under the bloodiest conditions troops are ready to flush out terrorism without leaving a single trace and that is our strength.





