MCA 'D' Div. title for Janashakthi

Rain nor the HSBC's 'Charge of the light brigade' could not prevent Janashakthi Group 'B' led by Isuru Ariyaratne scoring a 55 runs win and walking away with the 'Elephant Lemonade' trophy in the Ceylon Cold Stores sponsored, MCA 'D' Division 50 overs League tournament 2008 final concluded at the MCA Ground last Saturday.

Janashakthi 'B' put into bat, made a formidable total of 258 runs in 48.4 overs, the innings anchored by a responsible innings by middle order batsman, Sanjaya Perera, 64 runs in 80 balls including 7 fours and 4 sixes). Perera was associated in two half century stands, first being 52 runs for the third wicket with Isuru Ariyaratne and again 56 runs for the fourth wicket with Dharshana Ariyapperuma.

There was a further stand of 55 runs for the sixth wicket between Chandrika Amarasinghe and Duminda Roshan 47 not out in 50 balls). The 22 wides and 10 no balls bowled by HSBC was a bonus.

HSBC took up the challenge well and was off to a flyer putting on 20 runs in just 13 balls when the rains came down and halted play at 2.25 pm. The match re-commenced at 4.05 pm with HSBC given a revised target of scoring 177 runs to win in 26 overs.

HSBC continued to keep the score board ticking, bring up their hundred in just 10 overs with skipper Shehan Wijetunga leading the way with a belligerent 46 runs in 18 balls with 5 sizzling fours and 3 superbly struck sixes.

As Wijetunge going for another big hit fell at 103 and the introduction of Chaminda Haturusinghe into the attack, HSBC middle order caved in under pressure and folded up for 122 in 20 overs.

Match referee cum adjudicator, Sudarma de Silva named Janashakthi's Sanjaya Perera as Man of the Match.

The other special awards, based on performances in the league stage went to Madushan Fernando of David Pieris Motor Company (Best Batsman), Denham Cramer of Christy Lanka (Best Bowler) and Damith Ratnayake of Hayleys Group (Man of the Series)

Ceylon Cold Stores sponsored the tournament for the fifth successive year, their Vice President /Head of Beverage, Srikanth Selladurai was the chief Guest, while Brand Activation Manager, Nalin Jayasuriya was the guest of honour along with MCA Officials, acting President, Niel Perera, General Secretary, Ashley Ratnayake and Chairman Tournament Committee, Wasanthalal Fernando were associated at the awards presentation which followed the final.





