Letting your hair down for creativity

Ruwini Jayawardana

"The natural look is very much in style now. Rebonding is slowly wearing off. Colours are also very much in the news. Gents go for hairstyles with fewer spikes. The short and sleek crop is very popular among males. It is surprising how particular men are about how they look."

Nayana Karunaratne. Picture by Saman Sri Wedage

Beautifully styled hair

It is a hair raising matter that turns heads. A glamourous evening out, a wedding, party, a simple dinner with a loved one - whatever the event, elegant hairstyles are called for to add a touch of sophistication and class to your looks.

Elegant and styled by creative hands, the models take to the ramp showing off their slick tresses which are cut, coloured and twisted to be piled high on their heads or flown in waves down their backs. This is exactly the atmosphere which will take over Cinnamon Grand Hotel when Hair Asia 2010, one of the biggest hair extravaganzas ever to take place in the island, is showcased on March 7 and 8, 2010.

More than 15 countries including Japan, South Korea, Philippines, India, China, Hong Kong, Singapore, Thailand, Pakistan, Indonesia and Malaysia will take part in Asia Cup 2010.

The event is conducted by the Sri Lanka Association of Hairdressers and Beauticians (SLAHAB) and spearheaded by its Founder President, well known beautician and fashion designer Nayana Karunaratne. Johann Pieris, Ramzi Rahaman, Kanjana Godigamuwa, Crissy Rozairo, Romani de Mel and Premasiri Hewawasam also support the event. They are key figures at the event which will see a fusion of creativity and new ideas showcased to the audience. The World Championships will be held in November.

"Hair Asia 2010 is initiated by the World Federation of Hair Dressers. The organization comprises 74 countries which hold the competition every two years. They have categorized the competition into several sectors and zones. Sri Lanka belongs to the Asia zone," explained the President of the Asian Zone for Hair Asia 2010, Nayana Karunaratne.

The previous Hair Asia competition unfolded in Hong Kong in 2008. Sri Lanka clinched four gold medals and two bronzes at the event. A Sri Lankan candidate bagged a silver medal for the first time in 2007 in Beijing.

"When we entered the competition our competitors were given the lowest marks but years later things took a drastic turn. They have observed and experimented with different techniques to stand out among their fellow competitors.

We haven't scored at the World Championship yet but we are definitely getting there," she added on a positive note.

Nayana Karunaratne. Picture by Saman Sri Wedage

Around 350 foreign delegates and 200 competitors from overseas will take part in this year's event. At least 150 hairdressers and beauticians are expected to take part from Sri Lanka. The hair splitting extravaganza will consist of 25 categories including new additions to the event like Bridal make-up and bridal hairstyles, full fashion look, fantasy hairstyles, fantasy nails and stage make up.

The two-day program will allow competitors to evaluate their work on par with the rest of the world. It also enhances their knowledge and ability.

Getting to the root of the matter she noted: "The field is ever-changing. Taking part in a competition like this will give them an opportunity to rate their skills and upgrade themselves professionally. Japan's prolific hairdresser Toshio Tanaka was very impressed with our creations."

According to Karunaratne the competition consists of two main categories of hairstyles: the creative category and fashion category. Around five to six years of daily practice is needed for technical hairdos. Even a lock should not be out of place. This is to test the technical capacity of the hairdresser. The fashion category comprises street wear hairstyles. They are very elegant yet out of this world. This emphasizes on how successful you are as a salon hairdresser.

Speaking about the current fashion trends Karunaratne says: "The natural look is very much in style now. Rebonding is slowly wearing off. Colours are also very much in the news. Gents go for hairstyles with fewer spikes. The short and sleek crop is very popular among males. It is surprising how particular men are about how they look. We do a number of facials and pedicures for men at our salons."

Queried on how important a hairstyle is to set off an outfit she said that it is 150 percent noteworthy.

"You can wear the most expensive dress in the world but if you do not couple it with a good hairstyle all your efforts are lost. You can carry off a look without accessories but not with bad hair. It not only ruins an outfit but also your self-confidence," she elaborated adding that it is very important for the people in the field to witness the competition.

Karunaratne recently clinched the Organization Mondial Coiffure (OMC - World Federation of Hairdressers), Prestige Club Medal of Distinction for her contribution to the field.

Expressing her ideas on her crowning glory she said: "It came as a surprise. I didn't know that I was in line to receive the medal. We aim to put up a successful show. This will be a testing ground for us because my desire is to bring the World Championships to Sri Lanka." Looks like there won't be a bad hair day for our hairdressers as the best of the best will romp home by a hair's-breadth.





