East is a hive of activity

M.A. Phakurdeen Addalaichenai group corr.

The newly constituted Eastern Provincial Council represented by the MPCs of all three communities is a symbol of communal amity. It is the bounden duty of all of us to make the maximum use of this Council to develop our areas which had hitherto been neglected.

President Mahinda Rajapaksa, under his able leadership has paved the way for all of us to live peacefully and happily in our own soil without fear or tension, said Provincial Minister of Agriculture, Livestock Production and Development, Rural Industries Development and Fisheries Dr. Thuraiyappa Nawaratnarajah.

Provincial Minister Nawaratnarajah participated as chief guest at the Certificate Awarding Ceremony of the various training programmes conducted by the Department of Rural Industries with the assistance of NECCDEP.

The ceremony was presided over by the Department's Provincial Director Eng. S.R. Thileepan.

Minister Nawaratnarajah said "earlier no developments were carried out in the Region owing to the conflict situation that prevailed in the Eastern Province. Now the East has been relieved from the grip of the LTTE and people have been liberated from the panicky situation.

Thereafter a Provincial Election was held and MPCs were elected in a very conducive manner. All those were possible due to the farsighted thinking of the President Mahinda Rajapaksa. Now a hive of activity is going on in the East. Developments are going on in every nook and corner without any discrimination. Above all people are moving freely about and engaged in their normal activities.

He said the Rural Industries Department which earlier had not actively engaged in their normal activities has now determined to work for the betterment of the youth of the East and drawn up several programmes for the upliftment of the East. So a bright future is assured.

Members of the Provincial Councils S. Pushparajah, S. Selvarajah, Secretary to the Ministry A.R. Mahroof, Deputy Director-NECCDEP I.L. Thoufeek, Public Relations Officer to the Minister S. Nandakumar and several others also spoke.

Seventy five youths including women, who completed comprehension training received their certificates of merit from the chief guest Minister Nawaratnarajah and other guests. Sewing and machine repairs, food processing, beauty culture, hair dressing and weaving were the courses in which a comprehensive training were given by a group of talented Resource Personnel.

At the conclusion of the ceremony Minister Nawaratnarajah and the Secretary to the Ministry A.R.M. Mahroof talked to the youths to know their problems and needs and assured them that their requirements could be favourably looked into.





