Travel

Tourism flourished despite setbacks - PM

Tourism today would have been the major foreign exchange earner. Unfortunately a band of organised terrorists prevented us achieving that opportunity.

Hiran Cooray receiving the Presidential Award for Travel and Tourism 2008 in the General Awards Legend category, for late Herbert Cooray, Founder of Jetwing Group. Minister of Tourism Milinda Moragoda, Arjuna Ranatunga, and Ministry Secretary of Tourism George Michael look on.

Despite these setbacks there have been pioneers in travel and tourism in Sri Lanka who have made it their life's work. Through their hard work and ingenuity we were able to attract tourists to our beaches. We offered Sun Sea and sand but only on the West and South coasts, said Prime Minister Ratnasiri Wickramanayake.

The Prime Minister said so at the second successive Presidential Awards for Travel and Tourism held recently at the BMICH.

The Ministry of Tourism, in partnership with Sri Lanka Tourism, organized the Presidential Awards for Travel and Tourism 2008.

A much awaited event by the tourism industry, the Presidential Awards for Travel and Tourism aims to recognize and reward excellence among industry stakeholders and encourage their contribution for the sustainable development of the industry.

The Minister of Tourism, Milinda Moragoda identified the need to award the tourism sector for its contribution, as there was no award scheme prior to this. Today, the awards are recognized as the highest accolade for individuals and organizations whose outstanding contributions play a significant role in the success of the Sri Lankan travel and tourism industry.

The award categories constitute of 11 specific areas identified by the Organizing Committee, and the awards scheme is overlooked by an Advisory Council and an Executive Committee.

Evaluations and selections of award winners were carried out by an independent panel of judges chaired by Marketing and Management Consultant Nalin Attygalle.

The awards are positioned to include the formal and informal sectors, provincial administrators, as well as domestic and international tourism operations.

Binota residency refurbished

Binota Residency Nuwara-Eliya fully refurbished by the new management at a cost of over Rs. 1.4 m. after the Binota Tours Ltd had taken reins of the management.

Bintoa offers a host of attractions to its guests including day trips to 'Single Tree', boat rides in Gregory's Lake, Safaris to tea estates, horse rides and many more.

A special feature at Binota Residency is the 24-hour 'meal time'.

Guest can have their meals any time of the day, the new Managing Director, Lal Matarage said. Matarage is making elaborate plans to offer guests a host of attractions during the holiday season in Nuwara Eliya.

Mt. Lavinia Hotel to boost technical education

The Board of Investment of Sri Lanka granted investment approval to establish a Vocational and Technical Training Institute in Mount Lavinia. Chairman / Director General Dhammika Perera signed the agreement on behalf of the BOI and presented the BOI Certificate of Registration to Chairman / Managing Director, Mount Lavinia Hotel Sanath Ukwatte.

With 200 years of experience with a desire to grow and evolve, the Mount Lavinia Hotel, a proud heritage and a landmark to our country has ventured into Training and Development.

International College of Education, also known as ICE managed by the Mount Lavinia Hotel will introduce Tourism and Hospitality diplomas linked with TAFE colleges in New South Wales through the Hunter Institute in Sydney, Australia.

Technical Education in Australia dates back to 1883 and today TAFE (Technical and Further Education) is known as the largest Vocational Training body in Australia. TAFE offers many specialized diplomas and advanced diplomas, out of which Hospitality and Management is one of their renowned programs recognized all over the world.

"Centre for Learning", is the Registered Training Organization in Sri Lanka for the Hunter Institute TAFE in New South Wales, Australia. They plan to deliver training programmes in Hospitality, Business Management and Information Technology in Sri Lanka. The Mount Lavinia Hotel will be working with the Centre to deliver TAFE programmes in Hospitality.

International College of Education's prime aim is to develop young people in different aspects of Hospitality and Hotel Management. The accredited courses offered would be Commercial Cookery (certificate 3), Pastry and Bakery (certificate 3), and Diploma in Hospitality and Tourism Management. These courses will be delivered by well-known lecturers of the hospitality industry who would be TAFE certified.

The Hotel School would be using the latest techniques in training methodology and equipment with a comfortable environment for the students to enjoy their learning experience. ICE is also planning to arrange Practical Training for their students in hotels overseas.

The ICE in addition to imparting technical skills will also develop young people in their personality and employability skills to ensure that they are prepared to face the challenges of the world and become assets to society.

Aitken Spence Travels wins two travel awards

Aitken Spence Travels and its fully-owned subsidiary Ace Travels and Conventions won the awards for the Best Destination Management Company and the Best Professional Conference Organisation for the second consecutive year at the Presidential Awards for Travel and Tourism held at the BMICH under the patronage of Prime Minister Ratnasiri Wickramanayaka.

The Directors and the Management team of Aitken Spence Travels and Ace Travels and Conventions with the awards at BMICH.

Inaugural version of the industry's most prestigious and sort after awards were held in January 2008.

Apart from walking away with the 2 main awards, Aitken Spence Travels founder late R. Sivaratnam was recognised with a Tourism Legend award for his tremendous contribution for the development of tourism in Sri Lanka.

Managing Director of Aitken Spence Travels and Ace Travels & Conventions Gehan M. Perera, dedicated the achievement to the incredible team at Aitken Spence. He noted that the last few years have been very challenging for tourism in Sri Lanka with tourist arrivals dropping significantly. However, he asserted that the team at Aitken Spence Travels & Ace Travels & Conventions have risen to the occasion by opening up new markets and showing remarkable growth, despite the difficult environment.

"Innovative thinking, dedication, hard work and the relentless pursuit of excellence have contributed to the success of Aitken Spence."

"The management team is thankful to their worldwide tour operator network which they have built up over the years and the suppliers in Sri Lanka for the support extended in keeping Sri Lanka's tourism flag flying", said Perera.

The industry veteran indicated that the best support they could give the partners in times such as this is excellent service to the principals and more business to the hotel partners and suppliers. "This will be achieved through a process of careful planning, being alert to the markets and having the right resources", he added.

"The most important factor for the success of Aitken Spence is the very strong and experienced management team which undoubtedly is the best in the industry in Sri Lanka" he asserted.

Jayewardene on Ceylon Continental Hotel Board

Prasanna Jayewardene

Hotelering Icon who was the youngest Tourist Hotel General Manager in Sri Lanka aged 24, Prasanna W. Jayewardene, Chairman of Eastern Development Enterprises and Passekudah Tourism Development Association, who also was the Founder Chairman of Elephant Corridor Hotel has been appointed to the Board of Hotel Services (Ceylon) PLC, owning Company of Ceylon Continental Hotel.

Prasanna Jayewardene has been on the boards of Pegasus Reef Hotel, Mount Lavinia Hotel, Galle Face Hotel, Browns Beach Hotel, Lihiniya Surf Hotel, Hotel Hantana, Palm Beach Hotel and Catamaran Beach Hotel in Sri Lanka as well as having been Director General of the Ceylon Hotels Corporation. He was also Director General, Manager of Compagnie Seychelloise De Promotion Hoteliere (COSPROH) in Seychelles and Director of Universal Resorts in Malaysia and was Consultant for the Hotels of Universal Enterprises in the Maldive-Islands.





