Online edition of Daily News - Lakehouse NewspapersCristiano Ronaldo scored from the penalty spot as Manchester United beat Everton 1-0 on Saturday to open up a five-point gap at the top of the Premier League. The English, European and world champions' victory at Old Trafford added to the pressure on title rivals Chelsea and Liverpool, second and third respectively, ahead of their meeting at Anfield on Sunday. Ronaldo struck the decisive blow a minute before half-time after England midfielder Michael Carrick was tripped in the box by Mikel Arteta. During the course of the match United goalkeeper Edwin van der Sar set a new English league record for most minutes without conceding a goal. The 38-year-old Dutch international has now not been beaten for 1,121 minutes - more than 18-and-a-half hours - a run of 12 straight clean sheets. "Edwin van der Sar brings absolute calm and assurance to the players," said United manager Sir Alex Ferguson. "I couldn't believe it when I read in the paper that the last goal we conceded was at Arsenal in November. "Over the last 12 games we've repeatedly had to change the back four, which says a lot about everyone who has come in and done their job. But you have to give great credit to Edwin." Ferguson, looking ahead to Sunday's match, added: "I'm hoping for a draw. We've got an advantage, that's all. "We can't say it is a great advantage with the number of games we've got left. But we would rather be top of the league than anywhere else." Aston Villa missed the chance to go second after being held to a goalless draw with Wigan. Villa stayed fourth though and five points clear of Arsenal after the Gunners, now 10 points adrift of United, were also held to a 0-0 stalemate in a London derby with West Ham. "We've hit the post a couple of times and had some goal-line clearances," said Villa boss Martin O'Neill. "I felt that one of them was going to be forced over the line but it wasn't to be." Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger was left to lament more lost points with Saturday's draw at home to the Hammers following the 1-1 result at Everton in midweek. "We tried until the end but it didn't come off. We just lacked a little sharpness and creativity to get away with the three points," said Wenger. At the other end of the table, ten-man Stoke climbed out of the bottom three with a 1-0 win at home to cash-rich Manchester City. James Beattie's header on the stroke of half-time secured the points for Tony Pulis's men after Rory Delap was sent-off at the Britannia Stadium following a clash with Shaun Wright-Phillips. Bolton, who for the second time in a week threatened to throw away a 2-0 lead, moved further away from the relegation zone with a 3-2 win over fellow strugglers Tottenham. French defender Sebastien Puygrenier put the home side in front at the Reebok Stadium when he headed in Mark Davies's 31st minute free-kick. Then Bolton doubled their lead in the 64th minute when striker Kevin Davies shot into the far coner from a Gary Cahill flick-on. However, that was merely the cue for Darren Bent to bring the Londoners back into the game. Pascal Chimbonda, in his first game for Spurs since returning from Wigan, cut the ball back for Bent to score from close range in the 73rd minute. Two minutes later the England striker was on target again when Wilson Palacios's shot was parried into his path by Bolton keeper Jussi Jaaskelainen. However, Davies secured victory by heading in his second goal three minutes from time. West Brom remained bottom despite twice coming from behind in a 2-2 draw with Hull City. Hull went ahead just before half-time through Bernard Mendy. But Jay Simpson, on loan from Arsenal, drew the Baggies level with his first Premier League goal in the 53rd minute. Mendy then set up Craig Fagan for Hull's second before West Brom equalised from the penalty spot through Chris Brunt. Middlesbrough and Blackburn also remained in the relegation zone after a goalless draw at the Riverside. Fulham piled the pressure on Portsmouth manager Tony Adams with a 3-1 win at Craven Cottage. The struggling visitors, now without a win in eight Premier League matches, fell behind in the 14th minute when Andrew Johnson scored. Pompey had a penalty appeal turned down before a defensive mix-up allowed Fulham substitute Erik Nevland to score in the 71st minute. Nevland added to Adams's agony with Fulham's third before Pompey pulled a goal back through David Nugent.



