President governs according to Dasa Raja Dharmaya

President Mahinda Rajapaksa governs the country by following the Buddha's principles Dasa Raja Dharmaya, said All Ceylon Pirivena Directors' Association President Ven Koompitiye Sri Susara Thera.

President Rajapaksa

* Courageous leader

* Gave correct leadership

* Treated all equally

"The citizens of Sri Lanka are at a decisive juncture and President Rajapaksa is the best candidate to be re-elected to office. The reason being that he is one of courageous leaders in our history that gave the correct leadership to wipe-out terrorism from the country," Ven Sri Susara told a media conference yesterday. The media conference was organised to express solidarity with President Rajapaksa at the forthcoming Presidential election.

The Thera said only a few leaders in the country looked into the interests of five forces, namely Sanga, teachers, native physicians, farmers and working class, while waging the war during the last four years. "Therefore, we should be grateful and vote for President Rajapaksa at the upcoming election," he said.

Ven Sri Susara said President Rajapaksa was able to wipe-out terrorism from the Motherland, which lasted for more than three decades. and that helped the people to live in peace and harmony in the country. "President Rajapaksa gave an equal place to all religions in the country and treated all religious places as part of our culture," he said.

The Thera said while waging a war in the country, the Government undertook major development and infrastructure projects. He said President Rajapaksa also directed the country's foreign policy strategically, without placing the country's national identity and security in jeopardy.

Ven Sri Susara thera said President Rajapaksa increased the fertilizer subsidy by providing fertilizer at Rs 350 for farmers. This paved the way for the country to be self-sufficient in food.

The All Ceylon Pirivena Directors Association manages 700 pirivenas in the country.





