Cuba-Lanka relations to be strengthened

The 50th commemoration of the Cuban Revolution gives us the opportunity to share with friends our happiness and extend to the Sri Lankan People and the Government, our firm dedication to build up and strengthen the friendly relations between the two countries and leaders Fidel Castro and Mahinda Rajapaksa, the Cuban Ambassador Enna Viant Valdes said.

Viant Valdes said Cuba's favourable economic performance in 2007 has continued marking as one of the highest increase ever registered on the island since the 1959 triumph of the revolution and it was around 10%, being for the 3rd year one of the highest growing economics in the world. It is an evidence and demonstration that it is possible to create a different society according to the people's free will and dignity.

The economic upturn has had a direct impact on the daily lives of families across the country.

We have many reasons to be proud of our social, political and economic achievements. There is a great concern to give a priority to problems of development in strategic areas of the economy and an elevation of the quality of life of the population.

For the third time, Cuba's oil production will reach 4 million tons in 2007which is particularly important now given the fact that the price of crude in the international market is more than $90 per barrel. As it has affirmed Carlos Lage Davila, Secretary of the Executive Committee of the Council of Ministers, this has been a good year for oil.

He specified that Cuba now produces 47% of fuel it consumes and generates 15% of its electricity with accompanying gas from oil production.

Cuban society is going ahead because of our social participation and the real support of the population in the exercise of power, one important strength to face the present and coming tasks and the election of the new Parliament in 2008, according to our electoral democratic system.

Cuba also has a high performance in the solidarity and humanitarian aid. Currently there are thousands of Cuban healthcare professionals working in dozens of countries attending to more than 59 million people worldwide as part of Cuba's Comprehensive Health Programme for other nations and the "Miracle Operation" a programme which has benefited thousand of peoples by restoring their eyesight.

Cuba obtained on the 15th occasion, an overwhelming support in the UN General Assembly, where 184 countries passed a resolution calling on the US government to immediately end the economic and commercial blockade on the island. Once again the resolution adopted was an answer to the powerful international trend demanding the lifting of the blockade on Cuba and to stop imposing measures designed to intensify it.

Sri Lanka was one of the first countries in recognizing the Cuban Revolution which came to power in January 1959 and has immediately established diplomatic relations.

After this meaningful step our bilateral links has developed in a positive way in many field such as education, sports, culture, science and technology and health. The agreement of cooperation signed by representatives of both governments is a real fact showing the willingness of both countries to develop bilateral relations.

Cuba reaffirms its support for the Peace process in Sri Lanka and is sure that an acceptable negotiated political solution will be achieved for the well-being of the people.

Cuba is also committed to maintain and strengthen our traditional relationship and a mutual benefit cooperation between the two nations.

It is indeed a pleasure, on behalf of my Government, people of Cuba and my own, to send our best wishes, good health and prosperity to our great leaders, President Fidel Castro Ruz and Mahinda Rajapaksa and our respective people on the occasion of the 50th year anniversary of Cuban Revolution.





