Online edition of Daily News - Lakehouse NewspapersSpeed Water Systems (Pvt) Limited, was awarded the HACCP (ISO 22000) and ISO 9001 certification by the Sri Lanka Standards Institute (SLSI) recently.

This is the First time that a bottled water Company in Sri Lanka has been awarded the HACCP (ISO 22000) and ISO 9001 certification simultaneously, which in fact, is a firm assurance that specific hazards in the respective industry and products are focused and controlled", said Managing Director, Speed Water Systems Nishantha Delgoda.

The Internationally accredited HACCP (ISO 22000), ISO 9001 certificates given by SLSI demonstrates the credibility and acceptability of the certificate a press release states.

The simultaneous award of HACCP (ISO 22000), ISO 9001 quality management system is also an official acknowledgement that SPEED is customer - oriented and safety focused to ensure that purified bottled drinking water is supplied in keeping with the needs of its clientele and conforming to safety standards.

ISO 9001 assures distribution, production, quality assurance and customer care, and also encompasses compliance with legal requirements of a Company.

"These dual certifications speak volumes about the superior quality of SPEED bottled water products", said Delgoda.

"As a Brand which provides top quality and safe water products people can depend on, we have plans to go in for ISO 14001 Environment Management Systems Standards in the future", he said.

"This will be another significant milestone in our journey towards achieving greater heights of excellence", he said.

Speed Water Systems was incorporated in 2003 and within a short period of one year, the Company was able to secure SLS 894 certification for 19 litre bottles and pet bottles. Both products were simultaneous by awarded SLS certification in 2004. The SPEED water plant is equipped with the latest state-of-the-art technology which includes a modern Reverse Osmosis System, which is a sophisticated manufacturing process in Sri Lanka.



