Reputation comes first for Holcim

Many business giants are concerned more about high profit margins , increased productivity and expansion of business.

But the Managing Director of the market leader in the cement industry in Sri Lanka, Peter Spirig gives priority to reputation of the company.

He wants Holcim Lanka to be the company that enjoy the best reputation with its customers and with its employees, having a bright future and clear plan in going forward. He also wishes that a Sri Lankan university gets a prestigious Holcim award in the near future.

Holcim Lanka focuses on economic, social and environmental performance along the triple bottom line of sustainable development. The company manufactured 1.1 million metric tons of cement in 2005.

What made you to follow construction as your career? Can you tell us about your personal background.

I come from a family background of construction. Our family runs a small construction firm in Switzerland.

So I was exposed in the trade of putting up buildings from the early ages in my life. I used to work in construction sites as a young boy and I decided to follow Civil Engineering. So I graduated in a local university in Switzerland as a civil engineer.

After graduation I worked as a consulting engineer for a few years particularly for construction and project management and joined the cement company. Then I decided to expand my horizons geographically.

When did you join Holcim? And how did you get the opportunity to come to Sri Lanka?

I joined Holcim in 2002 at Group level in Switzerland and hardly worked for Holcim. Switzerland, I pretty much exclusively worked in Asia in various countries, various capacities and various locations till I came to Holcim Sri Lanka.

In, early 2004 I was presented with the opportunity and I very gladly took up the position as the head of Holcim Sri Lanka. I was very comfortable with the opportunity.

My professional background and my experience is around Europe where I grew up but the fact that I had been exposed to operational matters in few Asian countries made it look quite obviously that I take up this opportunity in one of those countries which I looked after before. It was not the first time I came to Sri Lanka to take up this position. I had come to Sri Lanka on a regular basis before that.

What was the position of Holcim Lanka at the time of your arrival and now ?

When I came to Sri Lanka in 2002 I just got to know Sri Lanka was at the tail end of the devastating attack on the International airport at Katunayake and the start of ceasefire agreement negotiations.

So there was lot of expectations about the future. People's expectations were very high. People thought that they will see a lot more buildings coming up and infrastructure development and there was a sense of progress in investments.

This situation prevailed from 2003 to 2004 and then people became more realistic about what can be expected.

Then came Tsunami and Sri Lanka was badly hit. I was deeply impressed about the way that Sri Lanka dealt with the huge blow. It was remarkable the kind of resilience from so many people that had been affected was absolutely stunning.

In the aftermath after few weeks of shock people realised that the life will go on and has to go on and construction has to be a part of that deal. I am glad to be heavily involved in reconstruction activities to help those victims.

We set up a fund of Rs. 140 million and Holcim supported building 650 houses in full or partly and some schools. I got to know a lot of outstanding people like Dr A T Ariyaratne who did extraordinary work during the prime time.

What is the most crucial period according to your opinion? Is it the past or the future?

I am not the man of the past I am with the present and the future the most crucial is always looking forward.

You have to know where you come from and keep your eyes open firmly on the future.

So the most crucial period is to show we take right action and right processes to be successful in the future.

What do you think about your competitors?

Sri Lanka is quite a vibrant market with six main companies including the Govermment's Lanka Cement.

Everbody is struggling, trying to make a living and giving each other a hard time. It is not easy sometimes but on the other hand I truly believe competition is good.

Fundamentally it makes everybody do the best. So without competition Holcim Lanka would not be in such a good state as it is today.

With competitors you can compare yourself , you can measure up where you are and I am proud to say that Holcim Lanka is certainly the best company that has shown the best performance among our peers.

We have a commanding market share , and brand equity , good customer satisfaction as well as good employee satisfaction. These are all measures that we take serious.

What is the most interesting part in your job?

It is a mix of everything. It is the operation, customer interaction, discussion with suppliers, interaction with stakeholders and local communities. With environmental authorities to show what we do in environmental friendly way,.

Then the people like banks and of course our employees their training and career development.

What are your plans for 2008 for the company?

I want to continue to give a good service, to make sure that our cement is available in the market and we continue to have a recognised, good brand equity. Operationally we are doing some expansions in Palavi to expand our capacity by 20 per cent and we want to make sure this is secured in the right way.

We want to promote the concept of sustainable construction in a comprehensive way in Sri Lanka. We have the Holcim Foundation awards cycle which is coming to a close on February 29 calling for entries.

How do you manage the current shortage of cement? Was it expected?

We are the only company producing cement with local materials. So we have a production capacity which is pretty much safe by our equipment.

We have seen some shortage in the market during the last four months because local competitors importing cement did not have access to import any more cement as those exporting countries required all their products for themselves.

But throughout the year we have secured at least part of the necessary supply to Sri Lanka. We cannot wrap up our production like that.

It requires a huge investment. If Holcim wants to supply all the cement required to Sri Lanka we need something close to US$ one billion which is beyond our capacity. This shortage was foreseeable to a certain extent by looking at how the global economy was progressing and supply demands in Asia who were reducing exports.

Are there any problems you forsee in implementing your projects in Sri Lanka?

This is a normal issue in project management which we have to deal with. Making sure on time supply, selecting good suppliers etc.

In operating environment I see some dark clouds that we should pay attention to. As I mentioned earlier where are we going?. Do we see more violence and attacks in Colombo scaring investors, or are we heading towards a solution we still don't know.

This we have to keep in mind. How will the economy do in 2008. Worldwide we see some cooling down. We have talked about the credit crisis, which affects quite a few banks worldwide, I am sure this will affect credit given to Sri Lankan banks, and their customers. They might not have easy access to have credit to build houses. This is something we have to watch.

Rising inflation is another concern I can see that Sri Lanka is running too big budget and trade deficits. As long as the Central Bank's not raising interest rates we will have a stubborn persistent inflation. People will not have money to add a room to their houses.

Do you enjoy working here and what do you think about Sri Lankan people?

Absolutely. There are lots of challenges, excitement. We are well positioned in the market. One of the few companies that could think on expansion, lot of opportunities for people and lot of diversities. beaches ,mountains and forests.

The Sri Lankan people are the friendliest I have ever met. Very open minded. I regret I could not learn to speak the local language. I like to communicate with them.

What are your hobbies?

I do some sports, I like to go on hikes,mountain biking. I play golf as well.

My Boss

Vishaka Etipola

My boss Peter is a very knowledgeable and highly educated person at his age. He is a nice person to work with.I have been working in this company for the last eight years and I know the set up well. Peter is the third expat I am working for.

Most of the expats do their things on their own unlike Sri Lankans. Peter is also like that. He is tough. But my experiences and relationship with him does not make it difficult. I know what he needs.

This is the third year I am working for him. He is reachable to anybody and his doors are open to all.





