Advertorial

Australia targeting skilled migration

Sanath VIDYANANDA

The global financial crisis has not limited your chances of being able to migrate to Australia.

Even amidst the global financial crisis there are still numerous avenues available, and changes made. In the 2008/09 Budget, the Australian government significantly increased its skilled stream to 13500 places; this was in order to confront the projected risk of increased inflation due to the pressure on the growth of wages.

Since then Australia's financial climate has weakened along with the rest of the world. In response to this the Australian Government has taken a positive approach. Even in such a climate the number of skilled immigrants granted residency has not changed, in fact it has stayed in line with the budget. In an effort to address the Global financial crisis, the Australian government is now taking a more targeted approach in regard to skilled migration, new measures have been put in place. This has resulted in a change to the priority in which applications are being processed.

The new priority processing direction gives priority to those applications with employer sponsorship, State or territory sponsorship, business skills and those with an occupation on the CSL.

The newly introduced CSL (critical skills list) is a smaller list of occupations (than the MODL), compiled by the Australian government in consultation with its State and territory governments. As seen in the priority list those whose occupation is on the CSL list has a higher priority in terms of processing than those whose occupation aren't.

Those whose occupation is not on the critical skills list (CSL), however, need not worry. As the priority list show the introduction of CSL does not necessarily hinder the opportunities to migrate to Australia. Those who do not have their occupation listed in the CSL, have the potential to be on a State list, a list which each State compiles citing its own skills shortages.

As shown in the priority list State sponsorships are prioritised as occupations listed in the CSL. Thus meaning that one's occupation need not be on the CSL to be able to migrate to Australia. What's more is that the number of potential migrants which each State or territory can sponsor from their skills shortage list is unlimited, consequently meaning a rather high chance of obtaining sponsorship.

Darren Aroshan-Another path breaker

Anuradha KODAGODA

Darren Aroshan, won the gold medal at the International Computer Project Olympiad 2008 held in Ashgabat in November.

Darren Aroshan

The young talented youth who was 'another path breaker' in Sri Lanka told Daily News Business that it was a challenging competition since there were nearly one-hundred participants representing 33 countries.

"The competition was categorized under four groups, Digital content, Hardware Controller, Programming and Computer Art and I selected Computer Art as my competing group. Most of the competitors used highly developed software whereas I used only the basic ones."

Inspired by the success he is also planning to create an animated movie with the biological background and he hopes it would help students who are studying Biology, to understand the subject easier with visual art.

Aroshan never attended any institutions to learn animatronics, but was influenced by one of his uncles who is an animation video editor. " I am an animated movie lover, I have a huge collection of different types of animated movies, which I like to watch during my leisure" he said.

Aroshan, a student of Trinity College-Kandy, will sit the Advanced Level examination next year in the BioScience stream.

"The Government is helping to improve the IT skills of schoolchildren and it would be great if the Government can further facilitate to develop IT skills in schoolchildren and also school-leavers. "However, I strongly believe that we can learn IT on our own, if we have a passion," he said.

He also thanked the Head of IT, Ministry of Education Kumari Senavirathne who also participated, and his school IT lecturers Rajapaksha and Karunarathne who briefed him about the competition and also helped him to win the gold medal.

World Education Fair at JAIC Hilton Tower

World Education Fair 2008 organized by PAC Asia for the first time in Sri Lanka which was held at Taj Samudra Hotel on March 15 and 16 brought several reputed universities from Australia, USA, UK and New Zealand. The first fair declared open by Susil Premjayanth, Minister of Education gave students the opportunity to meet the delegates of more than 20 universities from the aforesaid countries.

The second fair for 2008 was held at Galle Face Hotel in September. This fair also helped Sri Lankan students much in facilitating their studies abroad. World Education Fair is part of a series of events that happens in all the countries that PAC Asia represents, an event that takes place twice a year every year.

Through Educational Fairs in Sri Lanka, PAC Asia hopes to make a change in the way educational opportunities and placements are presented to potential students.

"PAC Asia is an International Education consulting organization with excellent credentials that provides value-based services to aspiring students in Sri Lanka, India and Nepal. PAC Asia has the belief of educating people through international education.

It is one of the leading international student recruitment and solutions companies in the Indian Subcontinent. PAC Asia endeavours to strengthen the bridge between Foreign Universities and Sri Lankan students and professionals as well and provide them with various opportunities to explore global prospects and have a unique learning experience.

It's objective, is to bring learning possibilities not only to the mass market but also directly to the Corporate' Market through it's strong brand presence and all the relationships which we have developed over the years.

PAC Asia has highly trained professionals in the field of counseling, communications and education support providing the highest quality care. It's counselors guide students through maze of questions and find the best suitable educational option for their profile and constraints, provide excellent advice on choosing courses that match the students' educational background, personal goals, and constraints helping aspiring students in career possibilities.

Apart from assessing the student's knowledge of spoken and written English PAC Asia pays special attention to his / her application forms and highlight the key areas for a well-presented and error-free case to the educational institutes. This activity ensures better chances of consideration of candidature.

PAC Asia Sri Lanka is official representative of institutes from Australia, UK and USA and hence gives the opportunity to students to meet Institute representatives in Sri Lanka and have face to face interactive session with them.

Tritech's 10th anniversary

Inaugurated 10 years ago with the initiative of the Managing Director Srilal Midellawala, the company has come up fast in the field of engineering construction contracting.

Their civil engineering division constructs all types of industrial and commercial buildings. The mechanical engineering division provides all types of fabrications, industrial plumbing and building services engineering work. The environmental division designs and constructs water waste, water and sewerage treatment plants. Tritech Engineers undertake all these services on a turnkey basis.

Tritech has diversified into trading as well as production under the names of "Tritech Marketing International (Pvt.) Ltd and "Natural Product Holdings (Pvt.) Ltd" (Naproh).

The latest achievement of Tritech is the setting up of Maldivian Tritech Pvt Ltd which provides all their products and services to the overseas market.

According to the Managing Director Srilal Midellawala their objective is to make Tritech 'The Best out of Best' in the country.

NOLIMIT 'Best Key Account Partner 2008'

NOLIMIT Purchasing Manager N.L.M. Mackey accepting the award from General Manager of Triumph International Shalindra Fernando.

NOLIMIT, was adjudged the Best Key Account Partner for the year 2008 by Triumph International.

CCBSL, Biyagama obtains E3 certification for Quality Management

The outstanding achievement demonstrates CCBSL's commitment and excellence in the spheres of Quality, Environment and Occupational Health and Safety certifying the credibility and superiority of the brand.

According to Country Supply Chain Manager, Coca-Cola Beverages Sri Lanka Ltd., Kapila Welmillage "The E3 certification is a milestone that demonstrates our commitment to quality. We will continue to augment our position in the future by bringing sustainability to our business."

A Type 3 or Q3, E3, S3 Audit evaluates the efficiency of quality operations, system design and implementation which meet the expectations of The Coca-Cola Management System (TCCMS).

TCCMS is a framework in which the organization coordinates and guides continual improvement and the pursuit of excellence in execution. TCCMS also embodies externally recognized standards (such as ISO 9001:2000, for the Quality facet of the system) to continue to leverage external audit resources and the credibility that comes from third-party certifications.

Ceylinco Life's Pranama schols tops 1,000

Ceylinco Life's Pranama scholarships program had touched the lives of more than 1,000 young Sri Lankans by January 2009.

The eighth edition of this annual scholarships presentation in mid January resulted in the award of 144 new scholarships, bringing the total number of beneficiaries to 1001.

Students from all parts of Sri Lanka including the Northern and Eastern provinces were honoured for academic and extracurricular achievements in the presence of school principals, teachers and parents at the ceremony at the BMICH.

Ceylinco Life Chief Executive Director R. Renganathan said that although many people invest their hard-earned money in houses, gold jewellery and the like, such investments can be lost overnight.

However, an investment in education can never be destroyed, he said. "Although Sri Lanka has free education, the very high level of competition for admission to schools and universities requires parents to spend on extra tuition for their children," he said.

"This was one of the factors that led to the creation of the Pranama scholarships program."

He said some of the recipients of these scholarships have gone on to become doctors and engineers, justifying the company's investment in their future.





