The pressure is on

Chee Yoke Ling

The controversial Copenhagen Accord that emerged from the climate change conference last December, and of which the Conference of Parties (COP) to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) merely "takes note", has become the centre of intense diplomatic activity in New York, Geneva and several capital cities.

Carbon monoxide coming out of the chimneys of factories

Informal reports have surfaced that developing country diplomats and decision-makers are being pressured to sign on to the Accord.

On December 30, 2009, a note verbale was sent by the Permanent Mission of Denmark to the UN to all the New York missions of UNFCCC Parties "inviting Parties to the [UNFCCC] to inform the UNFCCC Secretariat of their willingness to be associated with the Copenhagen Accord". This is the customary diplomatic channel to communicate among UN Member States.

The note states that "in completing the report of COP15 the UNFCCC Secretariat will list the Parties to the [UNFCCC] that have expressed their willingness to be associated with this Accord".

[This seems to be at odds with the strong statements made by a number of developing country delegations in the final COP plenary in Copenhagen that the Accord has no formal status, with one developing country stating that the Accord was something that was taken note of and that it is not a treaty to be signed or agreed to.]

The Danish Permanent Mission also sent a separate joint letter by Danish Prime Minister Lars Loekke Rasmussen and UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon dated December 30 to heads of states and governments, urging them as UNFCCC Parties (especially those in the small group of 26 selected by Rasmussen to negotiate the Accord) to "publicly associate themselves with the Accord".

The little mermaid in a lake in Copenhagen

In the run-up to the Copenhagen conference, when deep divisions were clear between developed and developing countries, Ban had supported the Danish Prime Minister's move to seek an outcome from heads of state including participation in the "Circle of Commitment" comprising leaders invited by Rasmussen, who consulted each other in regular teleconferences. Neither the criteria nor the full membership of that Circle has been made public.

The joint letter asserts that the Accord "represents the essential first step in a process leading to a robust international climate treaty" at the next annual meeting of the COP in Mexico (Cancun has since been confirmed as the venue).

It states that, "efforts within regional and negotiating groups, as well as bilaterally, to encourage support for the Accord may yield positive results".

The joint letter also states that the "involvement of leaders should be considered carefully" and that "in consultation with the [UNFCCC] Parties, Rasmussen and Ban will "work closely" with the President of Mexico, Felipe Calderon and host of COP 16.

It reiterates the deadline of January 31, 2010 contained in the Accord for Annex 1 (developed countries including the US) and non-Annex 1 (developing countries) Parties to submit to the UNFCCC secretariat the following information: for Annex 1 Parties, Quantified economy-wide emissions targets for 2020 with a base year to be unilaterally chosen; and for non-Annex 1 Parties, their nationally appropriate mitigation actions.

[Annex 1 Parties that are also Parties to the Kyoto Protocol with the exception of the United States that is Party to the UNFCCC but not the Protocol are already behind schedule in putting forth their greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets based on 1990 emission levels.

This is legally required under the Protocol when the first commitment period of 2008-2012 ends.

The Accord, in contrast to that legal obligation, opens the way for developed countries to unilaterally pick targets and base years for some countries that have increased their emissions since 1990, a later base year is preferred.

Global Climate conferences trying to stop all this

While some countries led by developed countries promote the Accord as a first step towards a new legally binding agreement, what is often overlooked in mainstream media reports are the important decisions that were actually adopted by consensus at the 15th meeting of the COP in Copenhagen.

These affirm the continuation of the two tracks of negotiations under the UNFCCC (on long-term cooperative action to implement the UNFCCC) and the Kyoto Protocol (on the further commitments of Annex 1 Parties to reduce emissions beyond 2012). The reports of the two Ad Hoc Working Groups that include the negotiation text of a range of issues are the basis for the resumed work of Parties to the two treaties in 2010.

As can be expected, many developing countries are exercising caution and scrutinising the contents and implications of the Accord that triggered heated responses and debate during the final hours of the Copenhagen COP meeting, and that did not get the consensus needed to adopt it as a COP decision.

Their primary concern is that there should be no weakening of the existing legal architecture for climate actions, comprising the UNFCCC and Kyoto Protocol, and rooted in the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities. Among those that are reported to seek a deeper understanding of the Accord are Brazil, South Africa, India and China that were in the small group of 26 countries selectively invited by Rasmussen in the final hours of the Copenhagen conference in a desperate move to produce a political outcome.

A ministerial-level meeting of the four countries (known as the BASIC countries in the climate negotiations circle) is now scheduled to take place on January 24 in New Delhi, India.

According to an January 11 report in The Hindu, a daily newspaper in India, the ministerial-level meeting is likely to draft a collective response to the Rasmussen-Ban joint letter asking these countries to work quickly and diligently to get all other Parties of the conference to sign the Accord by January 31. India's Minister of State for Environment and Forests, Jairam Ramesh, told The Hindu that India had sought some clarification from the UN office that had come in writing saying that the Accord was merely a political document and not a legally binding document.

The Hindu report went on to say that while Denmark apparently wanted all Parties to inform the UNFCCC secretariat of their willingness to associate with the Accord, there were some reservations from the Indian side on the implication from the Rasmussen-Ban communication that the Accord was legally binding or that it was the basis of negotiating a new legally binding agreement. China and South Africa have already confirmed their participation for the January 24 meeting while Brazil has also assured of its presence, according to The Hindu.

The next official treaty meetings will be the 32nd session of the UNFCCC subsidiary bodies (on scientific and technological advice, and on the UNFCCC implementation) from May 31 to June 11, 2010 in Bonn, Germany.





