After England's efficient mopping-up operation on the final morning against South Africa, Andrew Strauss was able to salute "the most emphatic overseas win I can remember" in his five-and-a-half years as a Test cricketer.

This really is virgin territory for an England captain abroad: everyone has made runs or taken wickets, there appear to be no serious injuries disrupting the camp, and one of the world's leading Test teams has been knocked firmly off its perch.

Most encouragingly of all, Strauss finds himself able to call upon the most potent all-rounder in world cricket.

It can be difficult at times to take Graeme Swann seriously, so keen is he to combine batting and bowling with stand-up comedy. But the facts are that he has taken 54 Test wickets this calendar year – comfortably the highest figure by any English spinner in history – while also scoring 452 runs at an average of 45.

Without Swann's fizzing off-breaks, and his cavalier strokeplay at No. 9, there is no way that England would have won the Ashes last summer. Nor would they be 1-0 up against South Africa. To finish off 2009 with back-to-back match awards is no more than he deserves.

"Swanny has had a massive impact on our side," said Strauss. "He's an attacking spinner who won't just settle for conceding two runs an over. He gives it a rip and bowls an attacking line, and the extra pressure he puts on batsman can be invaluable."

"When he was first picked for England, Swanny probably didn't know his own game a hundred per cent," Strauss added. "Now he has become a very clever spinner and his batting is a massive plus. As a captain, I know that there is nothing worse than a guy who has no fear of getting out and plays outrageous shots. It's very hard to stop that."

With 14 wickets already in this series, Swann's productivity has vindicated England's controversial selection policy. After the Centurion Test had ended in a draw, the team management were criticised for going in with only four bowlers. Yet is his ability to chip in on unresponsive surfaces that makes the tactic sustainable.

"The four-bowler option works a lot better when your spinner is contributing in the first innings, and taking the pressure off the seamers," said Strauss. "I still think you have to pick each side for the conditions, but on this pitch I felt that a valuable contribution from No. 6 could be crucial, and so it proved. Ian Bell's hundred put South Africa in a position where they were no longer in the game, then our bowlers could attack and put their batsman under a lot of pressure."

The twin hundreds made by Bell and Alastair Cook have created a rare, almost unheard-of phenomenon: an England team where none of the first XI are under any selectorial pressure, and the five squad players on the tour might as well resign themselves to the occasional bout of substitute fielding (although even that role tends to be hogged by the athletic Luke Wright).





