Air travel today is full of hazards for the unwary. I don't mean anything so final as a crash, nor even the kind of hair-raising experience that passengers on a recent Mihin Airlines flight underwent when their 'plane made an unscheduled emergency landing in Mumbai airport. There are other categories of unpleasantness connected with travel today, as many would have found out the hard way. Myself, for instance.

Having been duly warned by my children about NOT putting my pair of nail scissors or my bottle of cologne into my hand luggage, and about placing my small tube of tooth paste in a transparent ziplock bag, I avoided these pitfalls. I was also instructed not, on any account, to carry the cheese I had with me (to nibble with cream crackers during waits at airports en route ), into Sydney. "Throw it away before you land," they told me. Having the normal Sri Lankan reluctance to put food into the trash bin, I carefully placed the uneaten cheese on my breakfast tray for disposal.

As a wheelchair passenger, I sailed through Australian Immigration & Customs, pausing only long enough to declare that one suitcase contained Christmas cake and devilled cadjunuts conspicuously placed on top of my clothing. A friendly officer opened the case, gave the merest glance at the food items and waved me on. It was when I was wheeled out to the exit and was overjoyed at sight of the reception committee of two daughters and a son and d-i-l , that I nearly met my nemesis. No thought of my bags which came on a trolley being trundled behind me by another stewards, entered any of our heads. Nor did the steward give us a nudge as a reminder..

Immersed in a flurry of warm hugs and greetings, I happily walked out with the family, still jabbering away. Only sight of someone else carrying his bags brought us up short with exclamations of "What about Amma's luggage?" My daughter Anusha hurried back inside.

She was met by an irate and very hostile lady who, ironically, wore a pair of reindeer antlers on her head as a symbol of the festive season. "I'm sending the bags back to Customs," she declared. "You have no business to leave luggage unattended!" "Isorry – you see, my mother arrived –" "That's no excuse," snapped the antlered lady and was about to launch into another tirade, when my son Rohan arrived on the scene. "What's the problem?" he enquired? Adding that he could provide identification if necessary. It may have been Rohan's natural charm or the mere fact of a male presence that reversed the officer's justifiable anger at our carelessness. She softened and said we could remove the bags. In her defence, it must be said that airports frequently sound the warning that no bags or parcels may be left unattended – but she needn't have been quite so rude..

As we wended our way, Sarla had her own little story to contribute to this contretemps. Her arrival Down Under preceded mine by 10 days and she too had taken all the precautions advised by her siblings against doing the wrong thing. After a happy week in Adelaide, Sarla and husband took off for Melbourne. In Adelaide airport, she had bought a small manicure set and, without a thought, put it into her hand luggage. The bags went through the usual metal detectors at Melbourne airport and here Sarla was confronted by the cold voice of a Customs official who asked her, "What have you got in there?" For the life of her, Sarla couldn't remember anything that might be labelled as contraband or dangerous and she frowned in perplexity. Then the lady opened her hand luggage and Sarla's amnesia vanished at sight of the tell-tale manicure set. She realised it must contain a pair of scissors. Instinctively, her hand went out to it, but the lady snapped: "Don't try to hide it!" (which was far from Sarla's intention).

Sal left the airport suffering from shock.

And then, a week after my arrival in Sydney, my eldest daughter Ranmali & husband flew in from the USA, feeling carefree as they looked forward to a fortnight's respite from patients and potions. They were a much-travelled pair and had no trepidation about going through Customs. They were rudely brought up short by an Officer, also female, who said, "Did you read the Customs Declaration Form you signed?"

Quite puzzled, both said `Yes'. "Then what are these?" she demanded, as she opened a bag with a flourish, exposing a row of chocolates right on top. They were genuinely surprised that chocolates were suspect, because nowhere else had they ever been required to declare it. It just hadn't occurred to them to mention the chocolates. "What did you plan to do with them?" the lady grimly asked. Ranmali wasn't sure what she meant, but after a moment she said, "Give them to friends." "And what would they do with it?" went on the relentless interrogation. "Eat them, I suppose," "Exactly!" in the sternest tones. "Eat them. That's FOOD." Shocked silence on the part of the Americans, faced with this logic. "You signed a legal document. I'm not fining you, but your names will go on record as having done something illegal." The poor dears felt almost as if they had tried to smuggle in a bomb. Ajit's first words to us were, "I'm not coming to this country again!"

Fortunately, the family fun and laughter that filled the action-packed two weeks they spent here with the rest of us, served to obliterate that first reaction and I think that by the time they waved us goodbye, that first unhappy encounter was overlaid by a hoard of happier memories of Australia.





