MELBOURNE, Australia (AP) - Serena Williams will have to put her 100 percent record in four Australian Open finals on the line against former No. 1-ranked Justine Henin, who is only two tournaments into her comeback from retirement.

Both advanced over Chinese players on Thursday to set up a championship match involving two former Australian champions.

Top-ranked Williams, who won the title here every odd-numbered year since beating her sister Venus in the 2003 final, wasted four match points before finishing off a 7-6 (4), 7-6 (1) semifinal win with an ace against Li Na.

The 11-time Grand Slam singles champion has never lost a final at Melbourne Park and her win over Li.

Li had rallied from a set and a break down against Venus in the quarterfinals to prevent a projected sisters semifinal.

Henin overwhelmed 2008 Wimbledon semifinalist Zheng Jie 6-1, 6-0 in 51 minutes, the shortest match of this tournament and the most lopsided semifinal at the Australian Open since Chris Evert beat Andrea Jaeger by the same score in 1982.

It was her easiest match in a run that has included wins over Olympic gold medalist and fifth-seeded Elena Dementieva in the second round, 16th-ranked Yanina Wickmayer in the fourth and No. 19 Nadia Petrova in the quarterfinals.

Williams leads Henin 7-6 in career head-to-heads, although they've never met in a Grand Slam final. Williams won their last match, at Miami in 2008, just before Henin retired suddenly while holding the No. 1 ranking.

"It's my first Grand Slam since I'm back, and we're already there. So it's more than a dream," said Henin, who won the 2004 Australian title and quit in the 2006 final because of stomach problem. "I'm so happy to play against her because if I want to win another Grand Slam, I'll have to beat the best player of the world. And that's just the biggest challenge I could get."

Serena Williams has won four Australian titles and her win over Li was her 50th at Melbourne Park.

"I really should have won sooner ... I had so many match points and I blew it and I knew I couldn't mess up my serve because she never gives up," Williams said. "She's a real, real amazing fighter.

"Every time I had match points she came up with some big serves and great shots. She just goes for broke."

The Williams sisters combined later to beat Lisa Raymond and Rennae Stubbs 6-3, 7-6 (6) in a doubles semifinal and move within a win of defending their Australian title. The sisters face No. 1-seeded Cara Black and Liezel Huber on Friday.

China had two players into the semifinals of the same major for the first time but still is yet to get a finalist.

Henin is unranked and two tournaments into a comeback from 20 months off the tour, hoping to emulate fellow Belgian Kim Clijsters' win at the U.S. Open.

Clijsters was only three tournaments into a comeback from two years off, and also playing on a wild card entry, when she beat both Williams sisters en route to winning the title at New York.

Serena Williams is hoping for better against a Belgian on the comeback this time. Her semifinal loss to Clijsters in New York cost her a record $82,500 fine for a tirade against a line judge who called her for a foot fault.





