ADELAIDE, Australia (AP) - Ricky Ponting reached a higher place in cricket's batting elite and Adam Gilchrist made a farewell cameo Sunday as Australia moved closer to a series victory on the fourth day of the fourth cricket test against India.

Ponting made 140, his 34th test century, and Michael Clarke made 118, his sixth, as Australia replied with 563 to India's first innings of 526, a lead of 37. India lost makeshift opener Irfan Pathan for 0, survived a further scare when Virender Sehwag (33 not out) was dropped by Clarke at second slip and was 45 for one at stumps.

A day remains in the test but little hope exists that India can manufacture a win on a pitch which has yielded 1,134 runs for 21 wickets in four days, which will level the series at 2-2.

Australia needs only a draw to take the series 2-1 after its wins at Melbourne and Sydney against India's win in the third test at Perth.

The 209-run fourth wicket partnership between Ponting and Clarke, which occupied four hours and 18 minutes spread over three sessions on the third and fourth days, ensured Australia staved off any possibility of a second straight test defeat.

They carried Australia from 241-3 to 450-4 and were reclining in the dressing room when Andrew Symonds and Brad Hogg drew the home side level with, then ahead of India's first innings' total.

In the interim they had been able to savor, with their teammates and a crowd of 19,400, an innings which is likely to be the last, after 96 consecutive tests, by retiring wicketkeeper Gilchrist.

Gilchrist came to the crease to a prolonged standing ovation on Clarke's dismissal. He left 21 minutes later, having scored 14, to an ovation of similar volume, more effusive than those accorded Ponting, Clarke and Matthew Hayden (103) for their centuries.

Gilchrist announced Saturday he will retire from test cricket at the end of this match and from one-day internationals after the forthcoming series involving Australia, India and Sri Lanka.

The state of the match when he came to the crease suggests he may not bat again in Adelaide and the crowd accorded one of cricket's greatest wicketkeeper-batsmen, scorer of 17 test centuries, the warmest of farewells.

"The respect the public showed Gilly today with a standing ovation shows around the world how much he's loved and what he's done for the game," Clarke said.

India spontaneously joined in the applause.

"When he came out we all clapped ... this simply wonderful test cricketer," Pathan said.

Ponting's century was his 34th in 116 tests, bringing him level with India's Sunil Gavaskar (125 tests) and the West Indies' Brian Lara (131 tests) on the all-time list of test century-makers. Only Sachin Tendulkar, whose 153 in the first innings of this match was his 39th century in 146 tests, has scored more.

Ponting's innings occupied six hours and 32 minutes, from the fall of Australia's first wicket at 159 on the third day to his dismissal at 450 for four on the fourth.

He batted for four hours and 18 minutes with Clarke, through a century partnership in two hours, 20 minutes and a 200 partnership in four hours, nine minutes. Ponting raised his century with a single from Harbhajan Singh, with whom he has had a testy relationship but who was the first to shake his hand.

The partnership was Australia's largest for the fourth wicket against India, beating the previous best of 173.

Symonds lingered at the crease 112 minutes for 30 runs in an innings fraught with chances to steer Australia to a narrow first-innings lead.

Both India and Australia maintained, despite the stalemate evident Sunday, that the game can be won Monday.





