Following on my call for contributions of anecdotes about our leaders, I wish to contribute one on my own. The first part of the story appeared in the Sunday Island of October 25, 2009, in my article on "Political pressure on public service backbones". It read,

"When I was Deputy Director of Education, I came across this pedagogic felony. Returning late after an excursion, some students had had to spend the night in their school. The principal who took them out, had molested some girls in the night as they slept in a classroom. When this incident came to light, he had managed to avoid repercussions by getting a transfer.

With the change of Government, the principal had used his political influence to return to the same school on the pretext that his transfer out was an act of political victimization. This matter was brought to my notice and on being satisfied that there was substance in it, I interdicted the principal immediately. There was a hue and cry from local politicians about the interdiction but Minister Iriyagolla flatly refused to give in.

It so happened that the Government at the time was dependent for its survival on a faction of which the local MP was a member. The faction met the then premier, Dudley Senanayake, en bloc and threatened to join the opposition unless the principal was reinstated immediately. Minister Iriyagolla fought hard to uphold my order but the premier countermanded it on the ground that there was no charge-sheet against the accused.

Mr Iriyagolle had lost the battle and passed on the premier's order to me for implementation. I sent the accused two letters simultaneously; one contained a letter withdrawing the interdiction on the Premier's orders and the other, a charge-sheet and a fresh letter of interdiction. The charges were inquired into and the accused dismissed from office.

However, I was nervous about the possible reaction to my defiance of an order from the prime minister. I expected to be dealt with for insubordination. At least I thought that I would be called up for a dressing-down. But nothing untoward happened as time limped on.

Immediately after this incident, the post of Trincomalee Government Agent fell vacant.

It was a much coveted assignment as it almost doubled the salary of the post with overtime pay from the Customs. There was a tussle for the post.

I joined it despite my distressful apprehensions, as I happened to be at the end of my tether attending to my parents who were terminally ill for years. They had just passed away within a month.

My rivals had better qualifications. One had been specially recommended to the PM by the Ministry for parochial reasons. In any case unlike me, he had previous experience in the field and he was my senior. Added to all my drawbacks was the fact that I had just 'sabotaged' the premier's personal order. I had no hopes as the premier's decision was awaited. I gave up and was wondering from where to get the next loan to attend to the long neglected needs of my young family.

Then came the announcement of the premier's selection. Lo and behold! My name led all the rest! Contrary to my apprehensions, the premier had taken no offence with me. On the contrary, my defiance of his authority in the interest of the Public Service had impressed Dudley Senanayake more than all the superior qualifications of my rivals.





