With all good intention and responsibility, GoSL, helped also by generous funding from friendly countries,, took several steps to rehabilitate those, industries and business persons who directly suffered serious ethnic, violence-particularly in July 1983. GoSL action was also in response to studies by trade chambers, economists and other researchers both in the government and outside pointing out there was much potential in many of these entrepreneurs to contribute once again to the economic good of the country.

Rehabilitation of Persons, Properties and Industries Authority (REPPIA) coming under the Ministry of Resettlement and Disaster Relief Services, was entrusted the task of helping these industries-business persons. Officials of REPPIA have shown sympathy and dedication and are reported to have assisted many small business persons with long-term soft-loans to recommence their previous enterprises or otherwise get into other useful enterprises. However, it is reported in the case of some larger businessmen, the good efforts of REPPIA have been sullied by some state banks - particularly by the lower level officials in these banks. There is the case of two well-known businessmen, whose losses at the time of attack were in the Rs. 100-300 million range - in today's terms. The parties concerned were virtually "cleaned" of all their cash and liquid assets at the time.

Since then, they have managed to survive engaged in various small-time trading, helped by their standing and previous reputation in the business world. They continued to hope the government will sooner or later launch a scheme to help them. Help did come when GoSL set up the committee to look into the ethnic violence of July 1983 headed by a former Chief Justice and two senior lawyers all three hailing from the three major communities a signal both to the local and international communities that justice to those affected is on the way. There is reason to believe if these former entrepreneurs are assisted financially with long-term soft loans to recommence trading activities, they may well regain their earlier strength producing both wealth and employment. REPPIA recognising all this and after a thorough examination of the enterprises - selected a few suitable applicants. Police and, Grama Sevaka reports going back over 25 years, audited accounts and other difficult-to-obtain evidence were insisted upon to weed out the genuine parties from the others. After exhaustive studies, REPPIA recommended the case of some of these entrepreneurs for immediate rehabilitative action.

REPPIA does not have a banking structure and since these loans involve monthly periodical repayments REPPIA sought the assistance of state banks to handle this aspect of the exercise - at a nominal fee. It may be noted the loans approved were financed via REPPIA's own funds that were advanced to the state banks. It should be mentioned here that from a bank's income point of view, the exercise was not attractive to the banks although they were conscious this assistance exercise was not to be treated as commercial loan propositions but as a token of assistance by the government - perhaps also as atonement for the crimes committed to these affected business persons. It was, therefore, the duty of these banks to follow the government's line of assistance.

There is room to believe some sources within the state bank system concerned showed their disinterest in the matter in various ways calculated to make the applicants give up.

One was by dragging their feet for many months by insisting on various trivia irrelevant to the issue. This resulted in matters being prolonged for months - that can be accomplished in a few days. I am aware of a case that could have been disposed of in a week but was dragged for nearly two years. In many cases difficult clauses were brought in.

One bank insisted on doing the time-consuming examining process all over again. It may be noted here that REPPIA had already done the supervisory functions and, therefore, the bank insisting to do it all over again was clearly acting in bad faith.

One demand property/asset mortgages to the tune of several fold of the sum of the loan approved. The question here is how can an entrepreneur brutally relieved of all liquid and other assets in 1983 - possess such assets? The party concerned would not have gone to REPPIA for assistance, in the first place, if he possessed valuable properties.

In some instances applicants were told in "other words" since they were members of a minority community, they could not be given long term loans, i.e. 10-15 years. Some of them were orally told "you will vanish overseas and not be seen again" if the funds are released. The fact is REPPIA has already taken all necessary precautions and guarantees in this regard even if the applicant was to die. Another obstacle is the insistence on personal guarantees "of sound standing", something that comes into play only in respect of commercial loans. In one case, the applicant did bring in a close relative - a wealthy and resourceful person owning assets over Rs. 75 million in a matter of a Rs. 2 million loan. This applicant was turned down on the ground "the guarantor is too old" (58 years old) while the applicant was never told of the minimum age of the guarantor at the beginning.

To turn this matter into a farce, the guarantor in this case was asked to Mortgage one of his properties worth Rs. 55 million for this loan to be released. Resourceful guarantors, at any rate, the applicant suggested, cannot be teenagers or in their early twenty/thirties."

In many instances, clients have been turned away with the false information to the higher level of management of the bank orally stating REPPIA's fund with the banks concerned were fully exhausted. Clients who re-checked with REPPIA found this not be to true. In several cases when REPPIA officials came to know of this they are reported to have reprimanded the banks.

Much of this mischief is created by lower-level officials who make their initial "minutes" in the files that can have a "do or die" effect. The adverse minutes get in once the applicants show their displeasure to the strange suggestions initially made "if the matter is to proceed smoothly." In some instances although the higher echelons of the banks management, after studying the matter, were objective, applications were rejected on damaging but false reports from lower-level officialdom.

It is hoped this representation will engage the attention of the higher levels of the GoSL, the donor community that infused capital into the rehabilitation programme and political leaders of the minority communities. All of them might want to look into individual cases where ethnic prejudice may be an underlying cause for the refusal of the relief laid out by the state in the biggest single incidence of communal riots in the history of this country.

GoSL, in fairness to them, have done their part in good faith and, therefore, this matter should not be allowed to be sabotaged by scheming and suspect lower level officials in state banks.





