The Code of Governance issued recently by the Central Bank reportedly imposes restrictions on the period a director of a private bank can serve on the Board, namely, 09 years. With the economy in bad form despite figures trotted out by the Central Bank on growth rate etc., the real taste of the pudding is in the eating and the best barometer would be the stomachs of the large sections of the community who do not and cannot afford to patronise the speciality restaurants down Duplication Road and elsewhere and to hold ' boru shows' in five star grandeur for their progenies or patronise ball room dances on New Year's eve and other occasions (sometimes held most disgracefully in the name of charities). Nor are they so fortunate to be invited by their political representatives to the Parliament 'grand hotel' euphemistically called "canteen" where the tax-payer doles out the largesse for thickening necks and protruding stomachs.

The government is struggling to keep its head above water with the sky-rocketing prices of oil and other essentials and a continuing internal strife which is sapping its energy and resources by the day with the Opposition at its throat taking full political advantage. For the Opposition, it is ' to hell with your logic about world market prices, tax evasion, proportional representation etc. The amazing scenario, however, is the government's capacity to voluntarily create further problems in a conscious bid to take in more than what it can chew. Mihin Air, Sri Lankan Airlines, and a host of other issues to compound existing issues and now the Central Bank's code of governance, which could have been easily dealt with with analytical approach, good reasoning, diplomacy and internal controls, have taken centre stage sometimes bound to turn counter-productive and inviting national and international repercussions. Indeed, what the government gains on the straight, it has the unique capacity to lose on the roundabouts !

If the Central Bank has to introduce this rule, it has to prove that the present system has not been working well or that vested interests in certain banks by their continuance in positions on the respective Boards have worked to the detriment of the banking system. If there had been such instances, the question arises as to what in heaven's name the Central Bank has been doing in its monitoring and supervisory role. The remedy would be to acquire legal power to deal with individual cases on its merits and not introduce blanket provision. In the recent past, we have had the sad spectacle of certain finance companies opening up with gay abandon under the very nose of the CB and folding up later. The CB only stepped in to close the stable door after the horses had bolted leaving poor unsuspecting investors in the lurch. Of what use is its occasional newspaper advertisements informing the public of companies which are entitled to accept deposits ? Many investors, particularly in the rural areas, are none the wiser about such advertisement or the warning they seek to convey. Their concern is limited to the aspect of rupees and cents. Is it not far more meaningful and practical to permit only those companies which are registered with the CB and comes under its supervision and control to operate? No, they will not but eventually will have to carry the baby in any event when the pressure is on them by the public and the Opposition. If the existing law is inadequate, for God's sake, amend the law to make it more comprehensive.

For a private bank to be established, the particular institution has to be first incorporated under the Company Law. As far as I am aware, the business of banking is only an industry carried out under Company Law but regulated under the Banking Act. Therefore, provisions in the Banking Act cannot be construed as permitting the CB to invoke it in violation of the substantive law to wit, Company Law. Can the CB through a Code of Governance nullify provisions in Company Law, if there are no specific provisions in the Banking Act which supersedes the relevant sections of Company Law, by surreptitious introduction through code, regulation or rule ? I think not. Subsidiary legislation cannot amend substantive law. The banking industry is closely linked to the economy of the country and has to co-exist with it. The CB should not be permitted to exercise power without responsibility. If there are any shortcomings in certain private banks, certainly deal with them under powers vested with the CB but do not cut the nose to spite the face or upset the apple cart in a cover up of the ineffectiveness of the supervisory mechanism of the Central Bank ! The State through the CB has to ensure that it puts its house in order first . Square pegs in round holes by political patronage has in the past eroded the proper functioning of State Banks. The enormity of loans granted without security caring two hoots for capacity to repay and the blind eye turned on them by the CB has made the Central Bank to lose its moral authority to monitor private banks and for it to take moral high ground with private banks giving the license to State Banks to enjoy the freedom of the wild ass ! Government security is no substitute for good governance. Is there any evidence of any in State or private bank being taken to task ?





