The cowardly terror attack on a bus carrying civilians at Buttala came as no surprise. That the LTTE would launch an attack to coincide with the termination of the CFA was a foregone conclusion. The objective the LTTE sought to achieve with yesterday's strike is clear. It wants to cause the government to incur the opprobrium of the public, the Opposition and the international community for having abrogated the CFA in the hope that President Mahinda Rajapaksa's hands will be weakened politically. Terror attacks in the south may also help the LTTE distract the government's focus on the Wanni and compel it to deploy more troops and police personnel in other parts of the country.

Now that the military has taken the war into the heartland of the LTTE, the outfit has only two ways of halting the on-going military onslaught. It has been doing its damnedest to mobilise international support for that purpose with the help of its NGO allies and friendly foreign governments. But, its efforts to bring about an active foreign involvement in Sri Lanka have failed as the government has not succumbed to international pressure. Western governments are wary of forcing their will on Sri Lanka without India's blessings. India has let the Tigers stew in their own juice. Prabhakaran is paying for his past sins like the assassination of Rajiv Gandhi and waging war on the Indian army. The LTTE cannot bank on international help so much. Therefore, it seems to have opted for the other method—ratcheting up terror attacks and opening new fronts in a bid to create an environment where the government will be under pressure to agree to a truce.

But, nothing seems to be going right for Prabhakaran at this juncture. He may not have thought his plans would go awry in this manner when he promised the final war in 2005. He unnecessarily made the government realise its full military potential by plunging it into war over the Mavil Aru reservoir. On the political front, the Opposition, by turning the last budget vote into a political battle and triggering defections from the government ranks, set in motion a process which finally brought together the government and the JVP, whose demand for the abrogation of the CFA the government readily acceded to. Prabhakaran's dream of seeing the collapse of the government has been dashed. Militarily, he has lost almost all his arms smuggling ships and is faced with a severe shortage of ammunition besides a dearth of manpower.

For the first time since Operation Liberation (1987), the military is making a determined effort to decapitate the LTTE, launching as it does successful offensives from the air, in the sea and on the ground. In the past, when it was cornered in the East, the LTTE could move to the North and vice versa. But, today, it has lost both the East and Jaffna at the same time and is trapped in the Wanni with the troops closing in. Time was when the LTTE used the same method to deal with the army trapped in some pockets in the North and the East. This time round, the army is poised to beat Prabhakaran at his own game.

Wounded and piqued, Tigers have become more ferocious than ever. They will go all out to turn the tables on the government regardless of the cost in terms of their cadres and civilians. What is at stake for them is a precious edifice they have painstakingly built for years at the cost of thousands of lives and billions of rupees. If that crumbles, which is very likely, they will have the clock put back twenty five years. That is too frightening a proposition for Prabhakaran, who will be reduced to a lost cause in such an eventuality. Therefore, he has no alternative but to strike back with might and main.

What we are witnessing is a rising crescendo of terror whose bloody culmination is yet to come. Those who seek a military end to the LTTE must be prepared to brave Prabhakaran's swansong.





