"The Nepal government has requested the World Health Organization to provide specialized support in its policy formulation to adopt a system similar to Japan. Instead of Japan, the WHO has recommended Nepal to follow the system in Sri Lanka as it is more relevant being within the region and for its better health indicators". This is quoted from "Health Minister to assist Nepal in health policy formulation strategies" by Sanjeevi Jayasuriya (The Island, 19 Dec, 2007).

I am sure Sanjeevi didn't mean to say that the WHO had mentioned, Sri Lanka has better health indicators than that of Japan. Of course the healthcare system in Sri Lanka is well ahead of other developing countries in our region, but health indicators in Japan are one of the best (if not the best) in the world and Sri Lanka has to go a very long way to get there.

The above news was quoted by Dr. Prasanna Cooray, in his article "The Health Insurance Debate" (The Island, 26 Dec 2007). Although I don't really understand the reason for him to quote it, in his article, there he implied "WHO has mentioned that Sri Lanka has a better medical system than Japan". Unfortunately this is not true and misleading information to the general public of Sri Lanka. My objective of writing this article is to correct the misinterpretation of 'the WHO recommendation to Nepal' by Dr. Cooray for the sake of his illogical argument.

Let me start in this way: We can't ask an infant to try and train him/herself to win an Olympic Gold in 100m sprint. First the infant has to start walking and then start running. Before thinking of Olympics he/she needs to improve running skills little by little with realistic goals to be a provincial champion, a national champion and so on. After trying him/herself at international level he/she can have a more realistic target of winning a medal at the Olympics. Same thing applies to Nepal Medical system too. They should first try and get to a level where Sri Lanka is today in terms of healthcare and then try to move towards to the level of Japan. It is not realistic for Nepal to set a target to become the country with the best healthcare in the world at this stage. Hence, the WHO recommended them to follow Sri Lanka. Therefore if we intelligently analyze the WHO recommendation, we can see two messages embedded there: one to Nepal and the other to Sri Lanka.

1. Nepal: As mentioned above, first try to achieve what Sri Lanka has achieved today and then think of the level of Japan afterwards.

2. Sri Lanka: Sri Lanka has already achieved a good level in healthcare compared to other regional countries and now it is high time to aim high and try to move towards the standards of Japan.

In my opinion, unless we act now, the WHO would have to ask Sri Lanka to follow Nepal to achieve better healthcare in another 25-30 years time. We all know how Singapore wanted to be developed to the level of Sri Lanka about 30-40 years ago and today we are far behind Singapore. Let's act now and avoid the same embarrassment, this time in healthcare.





