The International Cricket Council Tuesday night took the dramatic step of sending an SOS to no-nonsense match referee Ranjan Madugalle to act as a peacemaker between warring camps India and Australia.

As Steve Bucknor was sacked from the third Test, disciplinarian and ace troubleshooter Madugalle was summoned from his Sri Lankan home in a bid to cool tensions in an explosive, and now endangered, Test series.

Madugalle's first task will be to get rival skippers Ricky Ponting and Anil Kumble in a room together and douse the ill-feeling from the SCG Test.

As the Board of Control for Cricket in India held an emergency meeting last night to determine whether its tour would go ahead, it was understood top Indian officials were delighted the error-prone Bucknor had been dismissed.

Australia also had no problem with Bucknor's sacking or the appointment of Madugalle - with one insider insisting the team would be happy to play under whatever officials were appointed.

Bucknor's removal has gone some way to calming Indian tensions, but Harbhajan Singh's three-match ban for calling Andrew Symonds a "big monkey" remains a flashpoint.

It seems likely Harbhajan's appeal may not be heard in the near future, meaning the spinner will be free to play in next week's Perth Test.

However, cricket remained in crisis last night and there was major confusion.

Even Billy Bowden, the eccentric New Zealand umpire, was shocked to learn he had been summoned to Perth as Bucknor's replacement.

"At this stage I don't know too much. You probably know more than me," Bowden said last night.

Bucknor, the world's most experienced umpire, refused to comment last night and match referee Mike Proctor was under a gag order from the ICC.

Proctor will remain at his post for the Perth Test but will be assisted by Madugalle.

A match referee since 1993, Madugalle is the game's first chief referee and is highly regarded within cricket circles.

"He is widely respected throughout the cricket community and his major function, in fact, his only function, in the Perth Test match will be to work with both of the captains," ICC chief executive Malcolm Speed said.

"In effect, he will be a mediator or facilitator to make sure the ill-feeling that has evolved between the teams dissipates and this Test match and the following Test match are played well and truly within the spirit of the game."

Australian batsman Mike Hussey insisted that the rival skippers could make a peace deal to save the series.

"I hope Ricky and Anil can get together and work this out and we can move past it. It has been disappointing the way it has been played out," Hussey said.

"I certainly hope we can all work through this and get to Perth and have another fantastic Test, because for me, personally, it has been really tough, hard, uncompromising Test cricket and probably some of the toughest Test cricket I have played in my short career."

Bucknor fell on his sword after his poor umpiring display in Sydney. Some of his bloopers were so bad, such as giving Rahul Dravid out caught behind, that his sacking was inevitable.

"It is accepted that Steve, and his on-field colleague Mark Benson, did not have good games," Speed said.

"We feel that given the added pressure and attention Steve's presence would have at the third Test, it is better for the match and for Steve, himself, if he does not take part."





