A pall of gloom has descended on the Sri Lankan media following the brutal murder of The Sunday Leader editor Lasantha Wickremetunga. It has sent a chill down many a spine. Today it is Lasantha and who will it be tomorrow?

But what troubles us is not so much the spine or the chill in question but the restless gorge that rises at the sordid conduct of the wily practitioners of sarcophagus politics.

There are many political worthies weeping buckets for the media that has come under attack. They even get off their bulletproof limos in the blazing sun to shout themselves hoarse in defence of media freedom. If only they had been so concerned about media rights when they were in power!

Former President Chandrika Kumaratunga has lashed out at the Rajapaksa government over the killing of Lasantha. She appeared on TV the other day asking why a government which boasted of its ability to tame the LTTE could not deal with the killers of Lasantha. We have the right question being asked by the wrong person! However, the government ought to answer that pertinent poser.

Chandrika was the President when Lasantha and his wife were assaulted in 1995. Three years later, his house came under a grenade attack. In 2000, his press was sealed and in October 2005, it came under an arson attack. Did she bring to book the goons responsible for those attacks carried out allegedly at the behest of her government?

Chandrika says she regrets having sacked the UNF government in 2004. Does she also regret her decision to seal the Leader press? It was also under her watch that Rohana Kumara, Editor of the Satana tabloid was gunned down. His killers were never brought to justice! Taraki or D. Sivaram, one of the best political commentators in this country was abducted and murdered in April, 2005. No one has so far been convicted of that crime!

Ironically, while Lasantha was being harassed under the Kumaratunga government, the then Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa, whom Chandrika accused of being the 'reporter' of her Cabinet because of his rapport with the media, was on Lasantha's side. After the 2005 presidential election which Mahinda won, Lasantha and Chandrika patched up differences and joined forces against the present government. And the blame for the arson attack on the Leader press in 2007 and the killing of Lasantha last week have been placed at the doorstep of the Rajapaksa government!

Curiously, UNP Leader Ranil Wickremesinghe has also taken up the cudgels for the media. Last Friday, he gagged himself and protested against Lasantha's murder in the very Parliament, where his party had once insulted brilliant journalist cum artiste Richard de Zoysa posthumously calling him many a name in a veiled attempt to justify his violent death at the hands of the death squads of the Premadasa government in 1990.

Ranil was also a prominent minister of the JRJ government which had the gumption to reward a police officer convicted by the Supreme Court of violating the fundamental rights of Vivienne Goonewardena on the International Women's Day in 1983. She had been beaten inside a police station when she tried to defend one of our cameramen nabbed by the police while he was covering a protest march.

It was also under a UNP regime that popular television journalist Sagarika Gomes was murdered for unknown reasons and the Aththa cartoonist Yunoos mercilessly assaulted for pillorying the then government potentates. But, the UNP bigwigs championing media rights today did not even make a whimper then. Why?

The JVP, too, has joined the campaign for protecting the media. Our Rathu Sahodarayas deserve praise for their concern for democracy. A JVP MP waxed eloquent against the backdrop of the charred remains of the MTV studio complex destroyed by a goon squad last week and demanded that the culprits be brought to justice immediately. He did the right thing, no doubt. But, the mere sight of a JVPer on TV evokes our memories of the eminent television personalities, Thevis Guruge and Premakeerthi de Alwis, killed by the JVP sparrow units during its reign of terror in the late 1980s. We would like to know from the JVP knights in shining armour championing media rights why they ever snuffed out those innocent lives and caused an irreparable loss to the Sri Lankan media.

The present government cannot cite anything—not even the heinous crimes its rivals have perpetrated against the media in the past–in extenuation of its failure to bring those responsible for attacks on media institutions and journalists to book. The government's track record and the violent disposition of some of its members are such that it is only natural that the public and the media have no alternative but to presume the government guilty until it proves itself innocent by hunting down and prosecuting the culprits responsible for crimes against the media.

Meanwhile, it behoves journalists to bear in mind that politicians' love for the media is nothing but lack of opportunity to suppress it. Given half a chance, they will seal printing presses, revoke licences of TV and radio stations and have their critics assaulted or even killed. So, forging any partnership with them to protect media rights is tantamount to having a fox to watch over poultry!

No media campaign against suppression will succeed so long as it is in the grip of wily politicians and the captains of the victim industry (read NGOs) looking for corpses to further their interests.





