The Presidential election is over. There is a sense of huge relief in the air.

The incumbent President Mahinda Rajapaksa should be congratulated on the resounding victory he scored against so many odds. Likewise, the people of our country, who ensured his smooth sailing home deserve praise for their service. By no means is that a mean feat, judging by the strength of combination of the constituent elements of the opposition and their evil and vengeful motives backed to the hilt by sinister international blessings and support.

The people of this country deserve so much appreciation for what they achieved yesterday at the Presidential Elections, for they have proved their mettle to the whole wide world. We may be a small nation, a small democracy pushed around and intimidated at times by the so-called super powers. Yet, the whole world can now take that its people are no fools. The handful of local opposition politicians who thought they could take the village idiots for a ride, with the help of all unpatriotic forces, miserably failed. Because the majority of this country saw through their masquerade for what it really was.

The UNP, especially its current leader, needed a scapegoat, for they knew as the back of their hand, that if they went alone, they would any way loose, as has been the recent trend of their misfortunes at the hands of the voter. The JVP need a floater, simply anything, to cling on to the dear political life, for they were almost drowning and dying. The TNA's hopes to control the majority of this country and carve away a separate state went awry at wholesale, at the banks of the Nanthikadaal lagoon. The SLFP (M) faction needed a sacrificial lamb to use in their voodoo rituals to get rid of their political anathema in the incumbent president, in order for them to find a way out of the political wilderness that they have found themselves in. The international powers with vested interests needed just that right unholy combination of politicians to get together and work some damn way out to pit the majority against each other for them to be able to open some space up to plunge the country again into political darkness and chaos, in the aftermath of the unexpected death of Prabakaran. To the total grimace of the public, once our most beloved General decided to step right into the trap, into the open arms of what now we had come to know as the combined opposition of UNP-JVP-TNA-Mangala-Hakeem-Sambandan and Ganeshan.

The rest everybody knows. All the while that the dirty tricks of the combined opposition were underway to mislead and misinform the voters with a view to split the incumbent President's vote base, the people of this country were reading the opposition's mind all the time. The people of this country knew what damage Prabakaran had done to the country for 30 years. They knew what politicians had done to aggravate that problem and, most importantly, knew how the incumbent President amassed resources to finally set things straight and restore the nation's honour and soothe the public conscious that was so hurt from decades old war. They also knew and appreciated what the General and his army did to win the war. They also knew what the UNP, JVP, TNA did too. Only foot tackle the President and the government at that time.

When the combined opposition thought to cash in on the popularity enjoyed by the General, they put the General forward and glorified him over President Rajapaksa for the war victory, and hid behind the General, trying to cross the channel on his back. The opposition thought that the gullible, village idiot people in us would forget all their unpatriotic doings, being blinded with the bright aurora they tried to create around the General. However, yesterday's emphatic victory of President Rajapaksa, in an election even the leader of the opposition has come to accept as free and fair, would tell the whole unholy opposition and the wide world that we really did not.

The majority people of this nation did remember. They remembered not only what the TNA, UNP, JVP, SLFP (M) faction did to sabotage and ridicule the war effort, but what the President and his dedicated team had to endure to take our country forward victoriously over the ashes of Prabakaran, against all odds presented by the jealous and selfish opposition and the terror supporting international fronts. They did remember what part each individual play and did not play in the war effort. The marvel is, unlike the politicians in the unholy opposition alliance, the people of this country seem to know well to whom the credit should go and in what order. They knew how to pay their gratitude the best way they can. Yesterday, they did just that.

That is how the incumbent President won the landslide victory routing all combined efforts of the opposition and the sinister international forces. The right-minded people of this country were his strength and his guiding light. No politician can claim that they can control the choice of the public, for they are intelligent way beyond what the politicians expect them to be. The JVP jubilantly said after forming the opposition alliance the following: "We brought Mahinda in, and we will see him out too". Obviously, the public must have thought otherwise.

Likewise, we hope that all the politicians in this country would now learn to see that they are dealing with an educated public who can think, reason and come to logically sound decisions themselves, based on what is best for their country's interests.

Those politicians who try to engage in political voodoo magic with scant regard to country's security, pride and honour, and think about hoodwinking the public to rob votes later on, should know that, no matter what they are up to, in the public eye, they stand naked and exposed and will miserably fail in their efforts.

My sympathies go out to the politicians who crossed over to the opposition thinking that the opposition had done enough to hoodwink the public this time.





