NEW DELHI, January 12: India announced on Monday a one-billion dollar line of credit to Bangladesh, the highest one-time line of credit assistance given to any country so far.

The significant Line of Credit was offered by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh during talks with his Bangladesh counterpart Sheikh Hasina. She began a three-day official visit to this country on Monday.

(The 62-year-old Hasina was today honoured with the prestigious Indira Gandhi Prize for Peace, Disarmament and Development for 2009 "for her outstanding contribution to the promotion of democracy and pluralism" in her country. The award, presented to her by President Pratibha Patil, carries a cash prize of INRs2.5 million and a citation).

The Line of Credit has been extended for infrastructure development of Bangladesh, including construction of railway lines and bridges and manufacture of coaches.

India decided to give 250MW of power to Bangladesh from the central grid while they signed a power-sharing agreement.

At the wide-ranging talks here between Singh and Hasina, the two sides reached a number of decisions to revive the traditional links of connectivity, which included Akhaura-Agartala railway line.

The discussions covered the entire gamut of bilateral ties, with particular focus on terrorism, security, connectivity, trade and investment, border-related issues and sharing of water and power resources.

During the discussions, Hasina told Singh that her government will not allow Bangladesh to be used for terrorism directed at India, an assurance aimed at addressing a major concern here about North East insurgents taking shelter there.

The two leaders discussed ways in which the countries could cooperate in checking the menace of terrorism.

After the talks, the two sides signed an Agreement on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters, an Agreement on Transfer of Sentenced Persons and an Agreement on Combating International Terrorism, Organised Crime and Illicit Drug Trafficking.

India also agreed to give transit facility to Nepal and Bhutan to Mongla and Chittagong ports. The Rohapur-Singabad transit corridor will also be revived to give access to Nepal.

It was agreed that Ashuganj in Bangladesh and Silghat in India would be port of calls for transportation of over dimensional cargo for a power plant in Tripura.

Bangladesh today promised not to allow its territory to be used for terror against India as the two countries signed three agreements to jointly combat the menace while India announced a one-billion dollar line of credit to that country.

New Delhi sought to address Dhaka's concerns with regard to non-tariff barriers by agreeing to remove these on more items and assured that India will not take any step on Meghalaya-based Tapaimukh dam which would hurt Bangladesh's interests.

Singh and Hasina noted that terrorism and extremism respect no boundaries and agreed on the need for cooperation between the two countries.

They expressed their commitment to solve all their issues through discussions and decided to put in place a Comprehensive Framework for Cooperation in Development.

Hasina, who came to power in January last and is on her first visit here since then, said with democratic governments in place in both the countries, relations would "no doubt reach a new height".

She hailed the assurance given by Singh that India would give duty-free access to more Bangladeshi items and remove non-tariff barriers besides improving trade infrastructure on Indian side of the borders.

India and Bangladesh also decided to reactivate the Sabrum-Ramgarh and Taparmukh land borders.

The Akhaura-Agartala railway line will be built by India as a grant.

India also decided to give 300 scholarships annually to students from Bangladesh.





