"In Sri Lanka tobacco kills about 20,000 people a year. Alcohol consumption too has caused the same number of deaths yearly. Nearly 11,000 prosecutions have been conducted with regard to the violation of the Tobacco and Alcohol Act during the year 2007 and the offenders have been fined 17 million rupees" said Professor Carlo Fonseka, Chairman of the National Authority on Tobacco and Alcohol (NATA) at the BMICH during a medical exhibition organized by the Medical Faculty of the Sri Jayawardenapura University.

He further said, "However, I believe that education is the best way to reduce tobacco and alcohol consumption than prosecution,".

He said, according to a press release issued by the Ceylon Tobacco Company, the sale of tobacco during the nine months from January 1 to September 30, 2008 had registered a significant downward trend.

According to the Commissioner General of Excise, the production of alcohol too had declined in the year 2008, for the first time in the recent history.

"It is mentioned in a book titled "The Cigarette Century" authored by Alan M. Brandt, Professor of Medical History, that in the 1990s in the USA, tobacco alone had killed more than the combined total number of people killed by alcohol, AIDS, traffic accidents, murder, suicides, dangerous drugs (heroine), and fire accidents," Professor Fonseka disclosed.

The NATA Act No. 27 of 2006 has prohibited sale of tobacco or alcohol to minors, the punishment for which is a fine up to four thousand rupees or imprisonment for a period not exceeding one year or both. Displaying of tobacco and alcohol advertisements for which the punishment being a fine up to Rs. two million and thirdly smoking in enclosed public areas for which the fine is up to Rs. 2,000/- or imprisonment for a period not exceeding one year or the both.

In addition to these prohibitions, sponsorship of brand names or trade marks of or any symbol associated with a tobacco product or alcohol product or the name of a manufacturer of a tobacco product or alcohol product directly or indirectly at any educational, cultural, social or sporting events, too, had been prohibited.

The punishment for violating this regulation was a fine up to Rs. 50,000/- or imprisonment for a period not exceeding two years or both.

Professor Fonseka clarifying a query raised by a member of the audience whether moderate consumption of alcohol was favourable to the heart, replied that alcohol could not be recommended as a medicine by medical professional as it was a major risk factor causing liver and other forms of cancers.

He also cautioned that in future productions of films and teledramas would not be able to include smoking/alcohol consumption.

Professor Fonseka clarifying another query confirmed depicting smoking scenes in a film telecast on December 31 masking the screen only after showing several smoking/alcohol consuming scenes, through a particular TV channel. The Authority would take stern action against them.

While the contribution of Tobacco Company to the national income in Sri Lanka was eight per cent, the expenditure that the government incurred on those who suffered due to smoking was enormous.





