The Island-SportsLONDON (AP): Three former England captains believe that Kevin Pietersen will win his power battle with coach Peter Moores.

The current captain reportedly is angry with Moores that the squad for an upcoming tour of the West Indies did not include Michael Vaughan, another former captain who was dropped last year because of poor batting form.

Although the England and Wales Cricket Board has declined to comment on the conflict between the two most powerful men involved with the team, there is speculation that, unless England cricket managing director Hugh Morris can heal the rift, then Moores will have to go.

"It's a bit of a mess but I've got a feeling Kevin Pietersen will get his way," David Gower said on Sunday. "Hugh Morris has an interesting task on his hands to mediate between the two if he can. If he can't, then he's got not much time to start the process of working out who is going to coach England."

After the Caribbean tour starting later this month, England faces the West Indies again at home and then will focus on trying to regain the Ashes from Australia later in the year.

The team comes off two lost series against South Africa and India and can't afford instability at the helm.

"I think they are going to have to go with their captain because their captain is a mightily important figure in what happens this year and over the next few years," said Gower, who led England 32 times between 1982 and '89.

"He is a fantastic player. He has the chance to be a good captain. He is still learning that trade, as we know, he's far from being a great captain yet. I think they are going to have to back their captain." Alec Stewart, captain 15 times between 1992 and 98, said that, even if Pietersen and Moores had disagreements, they should not allow them to become public.

"It is vital that a healthy working relationship between these two is in place even if socially they don't mix," the former captain and wicketkeeper told the Sunday Mirror.

"Pietersen is a strong individual who likes to lead from the front and I have no problem with this. Moores must strike a happy medium as to who runs things where and when."



