Saga of crossovers, expulsions and resignations etc.Referendum for extention of Parliament

by Dr. Wimal Wickramasinghe

Continued from yesterday

The two suspects, Susantha Punchinilame (Ratnapura District) and Mahinda Ratnatilake (Ratnapura District), indicted in the case involving the alleged assassination of Nalanda Ellawala, MP for the Ratnapura District, both becoming non-cabinet ministers, Susantha as Deputy Minister of Public Estate Management and Development and Ratnatilake as Deputy Minister of Textiles in December 2007. Wijayadasa Rajapakse (National List MP from the UPFA) crossed over to the Opposition before the Third Reading of the Budget for 2008 in December 2007. Earlier, Nandana Gunatilaka (JVP Member from the UPFA) severed connection with the JVP and is apparently supporting the government. Rev. Dr Omalpe Sobitha, MP from JHU resigned from the seat to accommodate Champika Ranawaka as an MP who was later appointed Minister of Environment and Natural Resources. Rev. Uduwe Dhammaloka, MP elected from the Colombo District on the JHU list, is now an independent member, voting in favour of the government at the vote of the Third Reading of the Budget in December 2007.

Anura Bandaranaike Factor

On the day of the third reading, Anura Bandaranaike (who was first elected to Parliament in 1977 after being in active politics in general elections of 1965 and 1970, Leader of Opposition from November 1983 to 1988 and Speaker from October 2000 to October 2001), on making a misreading on the balance of power in Parliaemnt, crossed over from the government and sat in the Opposition, thereby losing his ministerial portfolio. When he realized that the JVP was apparently abstaining from voting on the Third Reading of the Budget, despite its previous announcements, allowing the government to win, he immediately left the chambers.

Anura started his political career as a SLFPer, crossed over to the UNP in October 1993 after resigning from the SLFP on October 11, 1993 and functioned as Minister of Higher Education for a short while. In 1994, he became a National List MP from the UNP. When the party led by President Chandrika Kumaratunga won the general election of 2000, Anura was unanimously appointed as Speaker of Parliament as from October 18, 2000 until October 1, 2001.

Thereafter, he contested the Gampaha District in 2004 on the UPFA ticket, having rejoined the SLFP. After the general election of 2004, he first became Minister of Industries, Tourism and Investment Promotion from April 10, 2004 and then as Minister of Foreign Affairs and Tourism from August 22, 2005. Under President Mahinda Rajapakse, he was appointed Minister of National Heritage and was removed from the portfolio in February 2007, together with Mangala Samaraweera (Matara District) (who was Minister of Ports and Aviation) and Sripathy Suriarachchi (Gampaha District) (a Non-Cabinet Minister). Anura joined the government again within a few days as Minister, but on the day of the Third Reading of the Budget, he crossed over to the Opposition, thereby losing his portfolio.

There is likelihood that he would be brought back to the government fold after his medical treatment in Singapore, consequent upon a private chat the President had with him recently at Visumpaya, thereby beefing his security! What a tragic end of the 'crown prince' who always crossed sides at the inauspicious times?

Mangala, together with Sripathy, formed the SLFP (M) alliance, and joined hands with the UNP, while being Members of Parliament as well as members of the SLFP.

S Thondaman Factor

The saga of political crossovers is a never-ending thing, prompted by various reasons, some on matters of policy – a rare occurrence now unlike in the early fifties, and others for enjoyment of ministerial portfolios and other perks, including alleged involvement in grafts. To go back into the past, the most notable character after other Tamil cabinet ministers such as C Chiththampalam, C Sunderalingam, G G Ponnanbalam, V Nalliah, Sir K Vaidyanathan, M Thiruthelvam, Cheliyah Kumarasuriar and K W Devanayagam was Saumyamoorthy Thondaman who first entered the cabinet of J R Jayawardena on September 7, 1978 who retained the portfolio until August 1994. S Thondaman entered into politics in 1947 by winning the Nuwara Eliya seat as President of Ceylon India Congress. He lost the March 1960 elections and did not contest the July 1960 elections. Nevertheless, he was nominated as an appointed MP by Sirimao Bandaranaike during the fifth Parliament of 1960-1965. As an appointed member from 1960 he supported the SLFP government but it is said that it was he who defeated the government in December, 1964 by one vote. This was because he declined to vote.

In other words, there were 74 votes against the government and 73 for it and had Thondamon voted with the government, the votes would have been even, resulting in the Speaker voting for the government and saving it. He held the same position as Appointed MP from 1965 to 1970. He was not in Parliament during 1970 and 1977 but President J R, after an invitation extended to him, appointed him to the Cabinet as Minister of Rural Industrial Development on September 7, 1978 which post he held until August 1994. Again, he was made Minister of Livestock Development and Rural Industries on November 11, 1994 under President Kumaratunga's first Cabinet and he continued to function in the capacity of Minister of Livestock Development and Estate Infrastructure until his death on March 11, 1997.

This article is not only on crossovers of MPs but on resignations, expulsions, by-elections and terminations of them. In addition, there had been one historic appointment made by the Judiciary for the Bandaragama seat after the 1965 general elections at which time K D D Perera of the SLFP was elected MP. On the first election petition, he was disqualified to be MP. Yet, he won at the next by-election held on October 20, 1967 but again on an election petition made against him, it was George Kotalawala of the UNP who was declared by the Judiciary as the MP for Bandaragama on February 22, 1969.

By-Elections

The first by-election from 1977 was held on November 11, 1977, for Dehiwala consequent upon death of S de S Jayasinghe, Minister of Fisheries, and his daughter, Sunethra Ranasinghe, won it comfortably. The by-election was held for Colombo West that necessitated owing to J R Jayawardene resigning from Parliament to assume the office of President and it was Anura Bastian of the UNP who won it on March 21, 1978. The third one was on December 20, 1979 for the Galle seat as the sitting member, D G Albert Silva was unseated on an election petition, thereby W Dahanayake, as the UNP candidate, winning it comfortably.

The next by-election was for Anamaduwa as a result of sitting member from the SLFP, Sadhatissa Wadigamangawa being unseated by an election petition. Asoka Wadigamangawa of the UNP won the seat by a slender majority of 1787 votes. The next by-election was at Kalawana where the sitting UNP member, A Pilapitiya, was unseated on an election petition against him and at the by-election of January 12, 1981, Sarath Muttetuwagama won the seat by a majority of 2,408 votes, the UNP not fielding an official candidate for it.

An account of the by-elections held for seventeen seats held by the UNP that fell vacant owing to their resignation on February 10, 1983 has been given elsewhere in the article. We shall only mention one exceptional case. One was resignation of Ronnie de Mel, Minister of Finance and Planning, from the Devinuwara seat, but within one day of his resignation, Ronnie de Mel was nominated as the new MP for Bulathsinhala consequent upon resignation of O S Perera from the seat.

On the death of Dr Leonard Kiriella in late January 1984, as a result of which the Eheliyagoda seat felt vacant. In the process of selecting a suitable nominee for the seat, it was rumoured that Vasudava Nanayakkara, a former MP for the area, was contemplating to file an election petition with a view to avoiding nomination of an MP within the expiry period of 30 days. Sensing this proposed action, President J R Jayawardene to whom the interview committee vested power to nominate one out of the three interviewed recommended to the Commissioner of Elections to appoint by Gazette the most suitable candidate, Dr Wimal Wickramasinghe, and therefore, he was sworn in as MP for Eheliyagoda on February 10, 1984.





