Manchester United moved to within two points of leaders Chelsea at the top of table but, perhaps more significantly, their emphatic victory enabled the champions to reduce the Londoners' goal difference advantage to just two goals.

Rooney opened the scoring for United with his 15th goal of the season in all competitions and he admits that, with Wigan Athletic suffering a number of heavy defeats away from home, Sir Alex Ferguson's team viewed the fixture as an opportunity to hit the goal trail.

Rooney said: "We went into the game knowing that we were seven goals behind Chelsea and we wanted to close the gap.

"So scoring five goals has taken us a lot closer and we are pleased with that.

"We hit the post and the bar, but we scored five goals as a team, so it is great that we are scoring goals again.

"Five goals against any team is quite rare nowadays, so we have to be pleased.

"It's really close at the top and Arsenal are up there too, so this is a great result for us."

Rooney admits he is now determined to beat his career-best haul, set in 2006-07, of 23 goals in a campaign.

He said: "I hope I can do it. If I don't score eight goals between now and the end of the season, something is seriously wrong!"

United manager Ferguson, who celebrates his 68th birthday on Thursday, insisted that the emphatic nature of his team's victory could prove crucial at the end of the season.

He said: "You never know, the goal difference could be important come the end of the season.

"We've also got within two point of Chelsea and one ahead of Arsenal, so it's a good night for us.

"We've got a great chance. I think we kept the momentum going for the whole night because we realised there was an opportunity to get more goals."

Wigan manager Martinez lambasted his players for their performance, but refused to criticise winger Charles N'Zogbia for walking straight down the tunnel after being substituted in the second-half.

Martinez said: "It was the heat of the moment and it was the wrong reaction, but you want your players to be hurt after a performance like that, so I don't have a problem with it. I would disappointed if they weren't hurt.

"We made it very easy for United and I am extremely disappointed with our performance. We showed too many of the weaknesses we have shown all season.

"It was a group of individuals trying to do their own show. They were selfish and naive."





