The rupee depreciated by 1.28 percent against the major trading currency, the US dollar, in 2009, a year that saw intense debate on Central Bank interventions to keep the exchange rate stable, dealers said. Interest rates too had fallen sharply during the year.

"The rupee/dollar exchange rate was around 113 at the beginning of 2009 and at the end of the year it was trading around 114.45. The rupee depreciated against the dollar by 1.28 percent during the year," a dealer said.

With the trade balance deficit expanding the Central Bank sold dollars to prevent the rupee from depreciating in a bid to stave of import driven inflation, reduce the foreign debt burden of the government and make military procurements much cheaper.

But the downside was that exporters suffered as returns did not reflect the real exchange rate in terms of the trading account. With the global financial crisis, demand for exports also took a hit.

"We were concerned about the government's exchange rate policy and we voiced our opinions in public forums and to the press. We desperately needed a depreciation of the rupee against the dollar, not an induced depreciation but one that reflected the trade deficit," an exporter told the Island Financial Review on condition of anonymity.

"Soon the authorities grew impatient with us and at one time in 2009, we were told not to talk about the exchange rate issue in public. We were told the president did not like it," the exporter said.

Economists argued that a way out of the global economic crisis' affect on the country's exports was to allow the exchange rate to be more realistic. This would have negated the need for a bailout package of any kind.

"But the down side was as an import dependent country, if the rupee depreciated, inflation would have increased. On the other hand, it could be argued that with global commodity prices falling, there could have been space to allow exchange rate flexibility," an economist said.

The Central Bank later allowed the exchange rate to be more flexible and commercial bank dealers assumed it was a precondition for an IMF standby facility. The rupee fell to 120 against the dollar at one stage.

"Some banks were expecting it to reach between 130 and 140 but this never happened," a dealer said.

After the war against the LTTE came to an end, investor confidence in Sri Lanka grew, which put pressure on the rupee to appreciate. Some dealers predicted the rupee would appreciate close to 100 against the dollar by the end of 2009.

"The Central Bank intervened, this time buying dollars from the domestic market to prevent a sharp appreciation of the rupee as this would have really been disastrous to them," a dealer said.

"Had the Central Bank given exporters what they wanted—a trade account reflecting exchange rate—then they would still be suffering with an appreciating rupee now," he said.

"Interest rates were ranging around the 20 percent mark at the beginning of the year and as the year progressed some banks thought interest rates would soon hit 30 percent. But this too did not happen. By the end of 2009, interest rates have come off significantly," a dealer said.

According to weekly economic indicators published by the Central bank, the average weighted prime lending rate of commercial banks was 18.5 percent in the fist week of 2009. Treasury bill rates ranged between 17.33 percent and 19.12 percent.

For the week ended December 24, 2009, the average weighted prime lending rate was 10.85 percent and Treasury bill rates ranged between 7.67 percent and 9.32 percent.





