Has anyone asked the British High Commission in Colombo about the "Virginity Tests?" No, I am not suggesting that the British diplomats resorted to performing virginity tests on Sri Lankan or any other Asian women.

Is this some kind of a joke, one may ask. No, certainly not. This is one of those strange, but true stories. It is also a sad and shocking story about how the British Government enacted laws in the late Seventies to stop or curtail Asian or Black African women migrating to Britain to marry Asian or Black men living in Britain.

How did Her Majesty's Government try to stop young women from Asia, Africa and Caribbean countries coming into Britain? They tested these young women at Heathrow Airport to find out whether they were virgins or not! Well if they failed the virginity test, they were promptly sent back to the country they came from saying, "Hey young lady, don't think we are fools. You have lost your virginity before coming here. According to Asian and African customs, you are supposed to have your virginity intact until the wedding night. So you have no right to come in to Britain to marry a man here. Go home."

What if a young white lady arrived in Heathrow airport to get married to a man living in Britain? Was she subjected to the "Virginity Test?" British diplomats will say, "Are you kidding? Surely, we can't subject them to "Virginity Tests?" That will be a violation of human rights, you know. Not only that. What will they think about us? They might think that in this 20 th century we are harassing and humiliating these people simply because they wanted to get married to someone in Britain. Various feminist groups will protest and our Government will get a bad name all over the world."

Again, someone can ask: What about the Asian women then? British diplomats might say, "Oh those women. Less said about them the better." So these are the hypocrites who like to pontificate about human right violations to countries like Sri Lanka.

Does any reader think I am joking? Again, I say, no. Zarina Bhimji held an exhibition of photographs in 1987 titled, "She Loved to Breath – Pure Silence," to show how degrading these "Virginity Tests" were and their impact on Indian and African women who had to undergo such tests at Heathrow Airport in the late Seventies. To quote Bhimji:

"I want to create and communicate new meanings by bringing Indian language, objects, memories, dreams, conversations from East African and Indian backgrounds—as well as my experience of western culture—to play in between two realities."

The Guardian newspaper on February 1, 1979 quoted one such woman's experience at Heathrow airport thus:

"I was sent for medical examination by immigration officials. I was told to take all my clothes off. I was given nothing to cover myself with—no dressing gowns or blankets, although I asked for one. I waited like that for twenty minutes. Then a male doctor came in. I asked to be seen by a female doctor, but they said "No." I was most reluctant to have the examination, but I did not know whether that was the normal practice here. So I signed the consent form. I was frightened that otherwise they will send me back.

"The doctor was wearing rubber gloves and took some medicine out of a tube and put it on some cotton and inserted it into me. He said he was deciding whether I was pregnant now or ever had been pregnant before. I said he could see that without doing anything to me.

"I have been feeling very bad mentally ever since. I was very embarrassed and upset. I have never had a gynaecological examination before."

In a report titled "From England – With Love" by the staff of Portrait of India, a division of India Heritage Research Foundation, says, "This special of 'With love from England to Indian Women' was a heinous act passed under immigration law for full three years from 1979-1982 when Mrs. Margaret Thatcher a 'noble woman and iron lady' was Prime Minister of England and another 'noble lady Queen Elizabeth' was head of the State of England."

The British diplomats, of course, can give various excuses. Perhaps they might point out that they are from the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, whereas immigration matters come under the purview of the British Home Office. However, they represent the British Government that carried out these degrading tests on Asian and African women. So much for discrimination, so much for human rights violations that British diplomats and other British officials who serve UN and INGOs accuse the Sri Lanka Government of, at every available opportunity. Perhaps if Sri Lankan journalists and politicians should contact the British High Commission in Colombo to get more information about this subject, the British diplomats might try to treat it as a joke and say, "This is a complete misrepresentation of truth. The British Government was never involved in virginity tests at the Heathrow Airport, because that would have been a violation of human rights. Moreover, if such tests were carried out on Asian and African women only, we will be accused of discrimination. However, this does not mean that virginity tests were never carried out at Heathrow Airport in the late Seventies. According to the information we have at this point of time, such tests were actually carried out by baggage handlers at Heathrow Airport because they know how to identify damaged goods. The moment Her Majesty's Government came to know about it, all those baggage handlers were fired."

Perhaps journalists and politicians in Sri Lanka will laugh at this reply and forget about it thinking it was a joke after all. Don't allow the British High Commission staff to get away on this matter. Keep pestering, keep researching more into this subject and get back to the British High Commission armed with more facts. By the way, what is our Sri Lanka High Commission staff in London doing? This is the type of information they must dig out and forward to Colombo or at least give to our Sri Lanka organisation in England and ask them to expose double standards practiced by the British Government? Don't tell me we don't have a single person in our High Commission in London who can think outside the box? Or is it that they simply don't have the time because they are so busy attending to the needs of the kith and kin of their Minister?





