AMBALANGODA – The UPFA members of the Southern Provincial Council would leave no stone unturned to see President Mahinda Rajapaksa's victory at the Presidential polls on January 26, said councillor Sajith Vaas Gunawardane.

All obstacles would be removed and conspiracies defeated by properly educating the people to prepare the way for his victory. The people in the South would not forget the great mission performed by the President in winning the war against the LTTE within the four years of his presidency, the SPC member said, addressing a press conference at Hikkaduwa Coral Gardens.

The Opposition parties were trying to do their best to divide the country once again by aligning with those who supported the terrorists and dancing to the tune of power blocks in the world. When Ranil was in power, he took every vital decision after discussions with the LTTE. By a written agreement, he had handed over the a mjor part of northern and eastern provinces to the LTTE outfit. The government on the contrary was bold enough to take all important decisions without heeding the guidelines dictated by the imperialists, he said.

The councillor alleged that Ranil, Somawansa, Hakeem and Mangala were trying to renew the 'Eelam' claim of the TNA. Even before four months after winning the war, they had prepared a 364-page report against the President with the ulterior motive of showing the world that he committed war crimes, Vaas said.

But he said their dream would not come true as no unlawful deeds were carried out when prosecuting the Humanitarian Operation to rescue the Tamils from the Tiger clutches. No other leader in the country could have resisted the demands of the western LTTE backers at the eleventh hour. When the country was facing acute economic difficulties, he did not hesitate to fulfil the needs of the army, he said.

Convenor of the "Dakunu Palath Saba Manthree Sansadaya", SPC member Ven. Baddegama Samitha Thera had convened the press conference to enlighten the media personnel on the work done by SPC members to ensure the President's victory at the polls.





