Beginning today (January 1) doctors, both in the private and public sectors, will have to prescribe drugs under their generic names and explain to patients the advantages of prescribing drugs under generic names instead of trade names.

This regulation is being implemented under the Private Medical Ordinance Act and Government Medical Ordinance Act.

Health Ministry sources said that private sector and government doctors who fail to comply with the regulation could be prosecuted and jailed up to six months or fined a maximum of Rs 50,000. In the case of Government sector doctors all hospitals have been notified of this.

Doctors in the private sector could be rewarded by pharmacies since drugs under the trade names are costlier and the margin of profit, too, being high, Health Ministry sources said.

Healthcare Minister Nimal Siripala de Silva told The Island that the rationale for this initiative was that multinational pharmaceutical companies had been exploiting patients and inexpensive drugs were being sold at exorbitant prices under trade names.

He said that generically one tablet of paracetamol was only 26 cents, but under different trade names it is sold for prices varying from Rs 2 to Rs 10. This was a naked exploitation by multinational companies whose only motive was maximum profit. Of late, low quality drugs had flooded the Sri Lankan pharmaceutical trade as organised groups had smuggled cheaper and inferior drugs from Bangladesh and India and Pakistan where the drug market was often operated unlawfully.

Referring to State-run hospitals, Minister de Silva said that the Health Ministry had already sent the circulars to all hospitals and if any doctor violated the regulation, appropriate disciplinary action would be taken against him or her under the provisions of the Government Medical Ordinance Act.

When asked about the status of bogus medical laboratories run by unqualified personnel, Minister de Silva explained that an island-wide survey carried out by the Health Ministry had found that there were around 3,000 to 4,000 private laboratories in operation, but only 400 laboratories had been registered with the Health Ministry. The Health Ministry would never register any laboratory employing unqualified technicians. The Health Ministry's flying squad had been instructed to raid bogus laboratories operated secretly across the country. Under the Private Medical Institution Act any person or company operating illegal medical laboratories without due registration with the Health Ministry would be prosecuted in accordance with the provisions of the Act.





