Ven. Maha Alagamuwe Lankananda Thero (Kuswala Veda Hamuduruwo) is a well-known priest, who is dedicated not only to preserve the priesthood, Buddha Sasana, morals and ethics of Buddha's doctrine, but also he has devoted time and energy to disseminate the knowledge of traditional indigenous (Ayurvedic) medicine to future generation. He has been successful in healing some acute diseases which have remained incurable through the application of Western medicine. He has even gone beyond the realms of this study, with thoughts permeating through the present quagmire, the pervading crisis confronted by our nation. The venerable thero is very knowledgeable about the current political, social and cultural issues of the state. He has expressed his conviction, when interviewed by the media, regarding the efficacy of present leadership in President Mahinda Rajapaksa, in resolving the present political crisis which has tormented our nation for the last three decades. The following is an extract of a recent interview with the Ven.Thero

A: "There are no crises. There is only one crisis. That is terrorism. All other crises are centered around it. Terrorists' occupation which had engulfed half of our island's territory has thinned and is restricted to a small area in Kilinochchi. This is a decisive period. All citizens irrespective of differences should cooperate to wipe out this menace. The people should be alert and not take hasty decisions. For example humanitarian missions should be carried out vis-a-vis stern economic restrictions. Issues such as reduction of oil prices should not deter military manoeuvres of the armed forces. The earnest appeal to all political leaders is that they should cease implementing their own agendas. They should not be traitors. Priority is solving our national problem. As sangha we stand by the President, to give him every encouragement", Ven. Lankananda Thero said.

Q: Majority of our citizens are ignorant or complacent about this situation. Is it what you mean?

A: "No not all. Only a handful of them. For the last three decades since protracting of war, several regimes, under four Presidents and five Prime Ministers failed to resolve this issue. It is the present President Mahinda Rajapaksa who dispelled the myth that terrorism is invincible. He has the true vision to safeguard the nation as the first step with his concept "Rata Perata". We feel such a leader is indispensable, to resurrect this nation", the Ven. Thero asserted. There are a few terrorists activities. It is the nature of guerilla war. Eastern Province has been completely relieved from their subjugation. The armed forces are sure to succeed in the annihilation of terrorists even in the North.

The present President is a true son of Sinhala hailing from Ruhuna, a leader who is honest, efficient and loves his motherland above all. He represented the country in many of the international conferences he attended where he expressed his martyrdom in unequivocal terms, as a true national leader who is dedicated to preserve the traditional values of the cast, the unity and territorial integrity of the country, providing equal opportunities to all races, religions and cultures for living in peace and harmony.

The President moved with the common man. The nation searches for self-sufficiency under him. This would be achieved within a short span of time," Ven. Lankananda Thero said.





