Vice Chancellor of the Rajarata University yesterday accused the Students Council of sabotaging academic activities in the university.

"Not only the undergraduates but some of their parents too had been misled by the students council activists conscripted by a certain political party. This tendency is not something confined to Rajarata but could be seen in the entire university system. This is so pathetic that innocent students will have to suffer and pay the price since their academic programmes will be affected by the politics played by their own council," Vice Chancellor Prof K.A. Nandasena told The Island yesterday.

He made these remarks in the wake of a series of protests by the undergraduates of the university. Students' Council members are expected to inform media of alleged inefficiency and mismanagement of the university administration in a press conference scheduled to be held in Colombo today.

The students accuse the administration of delaying the intake of next batch of students for the Management Faculty for no apparent reason. "All other universities have enrolled the students for Management faculties and some of them have obtained their Mahapola scholarships, too. Jayawardenepura University commenced the academic programmes for Management Studies six months ago. The Rajarata has delayed admission of students by three months. Still there is no valid reason for this delay," Convener of the Inter University Students Federation, Udul Premaratne told The Island yesterday.

"The administration has delayed purchasing computers and providing laboratory facilities for the Information Communication Technology course conducted by the Faculty of Applied Science," he said. "The university lacks buildings and we know the University Grants Commission has passed the necessary funds but the administration delays constructions. A group of students have to wait till another group finishes classes since there is not enough buildings," he said.

"Students and their parents have promised their support to fight the inefficient administration and to make representation to UGC and, if necessary, even invoke the jurisdiction of courts," Premaratne said.

Vice Chancellor denied all accusations and said action had already been taken to address the construction of buildings. "Last Friday (25), construction work commenced in the Management faculty. Projects worth millions of rupees have been passed. These projects have to go through the required legal and official procedures. Some are before the technical evaluation committees."

He said the delay in admitting Management students was due to a decision made by the Management Studies Faculty Board. "The Faculty Board wants to commence the programme in March. It is faculty board decision and the board is attended by student representatives, too," the Vice Chancellor said.

He said the student unions were dancing to the tune of certain political parties at the expense of the interests of the majority of undergraduates who wanted to finish their studies and graduate without delay.





