The number of new applicants for unemployment benefits surpassed the 1 million mark for the first time last year, a government report said.

According to the labour ministry, first-time filings totaled 1.074 million in 2009, up 28 per cent from the previous year.

The number of people who collected jobless benefits jumped 31.4 per cent to 1.301 million, sending government payment to a record high of 4.1 trillion won (US$3.6 billion), a 43.7 per cent increase from 2008.

The recipients accounted for 42.6 per cent of the entire jobless population, compared to 35.4 per cent a year before.

"Hit by the global financial crisis, both unemployed people and jobless claimants increased last year. In the other hand, the high recipient rate is an indication that the current system is working properly as a social safety net," said Shin Young-cheol, chief of employment policy at the ministry.

The nation lost 70,000 jobs last year.

"The ongoing economic recovery is unlikely to spill over to the jobless rate any time soon. The ministry will step up efforts to help jobless people find a job," Shin said.

Individuals can apply for unemployment benefits when they have lost their job after having worked more than 180 days at an insured workplace during the past 18-month period.

The government also provides financial support to employers who keep workers on the payroll through business suspension or job training programs.

Last year, the government paid nearly 310 billion won to 13,000 such companies, which is expected to benefit their 942,000 employees, the ministry said.

Separately, the ministry announced a set of toughened measures against employers who repeatedly delay wage payment.

The total amount of wages in arrears rose 40.6 per cent year-on-year to a record of 1.3 trillion won in 2009. The number of employees affected increased 20.5 per cent to 300,000, according to the ministry statistics.

The actual number will be way above the official figure when considering unreported cases, the ministry said.

The ministry said it would seek criminal charges against those employers who delay wage payment habitually and conceal property in order to avoid payments. Ministry investigators will also inspect their workplaces regularly.

The ministry is also considering a law revision to disclose their personal information to local communities.

For employers who have difficulties in cash flow due to the economic slowdown, the government plans to extend more support including special loans.

"Wages are the sole means of living for workers. We will try our best to prevent delayed payments," said Jeong Hyun-ok, director of labour standard at the ministry.

"Workplaces that have repeatedly delayed wage payment will be punished strictly. But when employers cannot but do so due to economic difficulties, we will expand support in order to protect labourers and minimise their suffering."





