Today the cooperative movement is involved in a large number of various enterprises: fisheries, textiles, agriculture, industry, insurance, etc. in all their numerous divisions. The nearly one-hundred year old Sri Lanka cooperative movement, both under the British and after, has steadily developed, survived crises, and made a great contribution to the economic well-being of the nation, especially through catering to the less affluent sections of the society.

Although there are clashes of opinion between different political parties allied to opposing economic ideologies regarding how to manage the various cooperative enterprises in the best interest of their members and of the nation as a whole, there is overwhelming consensus in respect of the vital importance to the country of the cooperative movement itself . So it is universally recognised without any dispute that the effectiveness of the movement must be increased.

Capacity Building , therefore, is the key priority for the cooperative movement at present. The Rochdale pioneers of the cooperative movement included democratic control as one of the eight cardinal principles on which it was based. This applies even today. Therefore cooperative enterprises enjoy a measure of autonomy not usually found in either public or private business organisations, a condition favourable for the implementation of capacity building.

According to Carter McNamara MBA, PhD, amongst the variety of definitions of 'capacity building' the most fundamental one is 'actions that improve non-profit effectiveness' . Carter quotes this basic definition from Barbara Bluementhal's book 'Investing in Capacity Building' published by the Foundation Centre. Alternatively, we may say that the idea of capacity building concerns practices aimed at improving a non-profit organisation's ability to work towards its mission.

Cooperative enterprises are non-profit organisations. In our country we have a large number of cooperative enterprises in different fields of business, both producers and consumers, ranging from the common village cooperative society to the Cooperative Wholesale Establishment. The importance of the numerous cooperative enterprises to the nation's economic well-being need hardly be reiterated. So the effectiveness of their functioning is vital for the whole country. This is where the concept of capacity building becomes relevant, because enhancing the ability of an organisation towards the fulfilment of its mission is what capacity building is all about.

The concept of capacity building we are applying for cooperative ventures is not different to the concepts of organisational development, and organisational effectiveness with or without performance management applied in for-profit organisations. Capacity building efforts may include a wide range of approaches such as granting management development funds, providing training and development sessions, providing coaching, and supporting collaboration with other similar organisations.

At this point we may look at a more explicit definition of the concept of capacity building : ' . is the process of developing and strengthening the skills, instincts, abilities, processes and resources that organisations and communities need to survive, adapt and thrive in the fast changing world'. This is how Ann Philbin defines the phrase in her book 'Capacity Building in Social Justice Organisations' published by the Ford Foundation in 1996.

Deborah Linnell's 'Evolution of Capacity Building: Lessons from the Field' contains an explanation of the term, the actions involved in the field, and the concept's relationship with organisational effectiveness. In terms of this explanation capacity building, capacity itself, and organisational effectiveness are all related, but not identical. Capacity refers to an organisation's ability to achieve its mission effectively, and to sustain itself over the long term. It also refers to the skills and capabilities of individuals.

Capacity building therefore comprises the set of activities that improve an organisation's ability to achieve its mission or an individual's ability to define and realise the goals or to do their job effectively. For organisations capacity building relates to almost any aspect of its work: improved governance, leadership, mission, strategy, administration including human resources, financial management and legal matters, programme development and implementation, fundraising and income generation, diversity, partnerships, and collaboration, evaluation, advocacy and policy change, marketing, positioning, planning, etc. For individuals capacity building relates to leadership development, advocacy skills, training and speaking abilities, technical skills, organising skills, and other areas of personal and professional development. There is a large range of capacity building approaches that include peer-to-peer learning, facilitated organisational development, training and academic study, research, publishing and grant-making.

Capacity building agents are of various types: Management consultants provide expertise, coaching and referrals. Management support organisations provide consulting, training, resources, research, referrals, and other services. Grant-makers – foundations and government organisations - often get involved in capacity building either through their grants or by offering training, consulting and resources themselves. Researchers contribute to capacity building by identifying issues and trends, building knowledge for organisations and other capacity builders to use. Universities and other academic centres help by conducting training and providing certification. Organisational effectiveness relates to the capacity of an organisation to sustain the people, strategies, learning, infrastructure and resources it needs to continue to achieve its mission.

To conclude, it is nearly a century since the introduction of the cooperative movement to Sri Lanka from Europe. The movement has survived in our small country through various crises- largely the result of global upheavals such as the two world wars in the last century, the Great Depression between 1929 and 1934 (the latter characterised by a sharp fall in output and prices), and fluctuations in fuel prices in the world market; critical situations also resulted from domestic political and social unrest. Over the decades cooperative enterprises have multiplied, and have been recognised as a vital part of our economy. Being owned and managed by combinations of consumer-customers who supply the capital they are non-profit origination; they focus on achieving mutual benefit for the members, rather than on profit-making. Such organisations, devoted though they are to a constant mission, must nevertheless operate in a fast-changing world, changing in technical achievement, economy, culture, politics, and in adapting to consequences of natural disasters like earthquakes, floods, etc, and also in innumerable other ways. To succeed in such a world, cooperative enterprises must adopt strategies to sustain and improve their effectiveness in achieving their mission. Capacity building is the way to do this, and that is the priority for cooperative enterprises in Sri Lanka today.





