The letter from Dr. D P Athukorale titled "Generic and Brand named drugs",( Island, 25-1-08) , only confirms the opinion that his contributions tend mostly to spread confusion among the general public. After stating quote: "Eric J de Silva and Dr. Mahinda de Silva have already given the most illuminating accounts of generic drugs and brand name drugs", he proceeds to give his own classification, which is totally without sense.

He classifies drugs according to price, into "Cheap Brand Drugs, Expensive Brand Drugs and Original Brand Drugs".

(a)"Cheap Brand Drugs"

Exemplifying his blinkered view, Dr DPA's states quote: "Cheap brand drugs are usually imported from countries such as India, Pakistan, Cyprus, Bangladesh and Thailand, and some of them are of very low quality and some are not effective. Sri Lanka does not have sufficient facilities to test the quality of most of these branded drugs at present".

As Dr De Silva states in one of the articles, quote: "The cost of a generic drug, just like any other manufactured item, depends on factors unrelated to its quality. It is related to the cost of importation of the raw material, and the country of manufacture, where labour costs construction and maintenance of the facility and taxes, affect the price". Many Western multinational drug companies have plants in the countries mentioned by DPA, which manufacture drugs at a fraction of the cost of drugs imported from the West.

Scepticism about the quality of generic drugs arises from the idea that the best is from the West, and the influence of the British qualified teachers and consultants, who are familiar only with Western drug manufacturers. Thus there is an unconscious bias against Asian and Indian manufacturers. This is accentuated by the propaganda and influence of large brand name manufacturers, who wish to protect their market share.

India and China have become major suppliers of low-cost generic drugs and drug ingredients to American consumers. The FDA reports that over 350 varieties of imported generic drugs are sold in the USA. It also says that they are not aware of any health problems caused by drugs imported from India or China, and that the American companies that import them usually do their own quality and safety testing.

(b)"Expensive Brand drugs"

Dr. DPA describes them thus: "Most of the doctors doing practice, usually prescribe these slightly expensive brand drugs for patients in the private sector and thousands of patients get cured with these expensive brands drugs ". Of course this is a very unscientific assessment of these "slightly expensive" drugs. How many of these "cures" occurred because of self limited illness, how many due to a placebo effect and how many due to the drug, is anybody's guess! Science is obviously not Dr. DPA's forte!

(c)"Original Brand Drugs"

Dr. DPA says, quote: "These drugs are usually imported from developed countries such as the US, the U.K., and France, and are very expensive and I usually don't prescribe these expensive original brand drugs unless there is a life and death emergency. A few cases of these very expensive original branded drugs are Valium, Inderal, Augmentin Mevocor, Zocor, Zantac, Zestrl, ISMO, Capoten, Lopressor and Visken".

It will be obvious to the most dim -witted health care professional that almost all, if not all, these drugs are never used in "life and death emergencies". Except for Valium, they are available only in tablet form, and used for treatment of chronic disease such as high blood pressure and, control of blood lipids. In fact, everybody knows what Valium is, and there is no necessity at all to use the Original brand, as the same manufacturer, Roche, makes both the generic and the brand product.

This last statement caps the most ill-informed, irrational discussion of any subject of importance to healthcare professionals and the public one is likely to hear in a lifetime!

Dr. DPA has not got the foggiest idea of what constitutes scientific proof in Western science which is the basis of Western Medicine. It is the result of the anti–thinking, note copying, rote learning, medical education which was, and I believe is still imparted, by our medical educationists. Only a few, like Prof. Bibile, Prof. Carlo Fonseka, and a few others through prolonged exposure to institutions abroad, have been able to overcome its effects. Dr. DPA seems never to have heard of controlled experimental or observational trials to confirm the validity of a hypothesis. As proof of his views, he trots out anecdotal fairy tales about his experiences, such as with 'the very rich miserly husband of his Horton place neighbor, who bought very cheap SPC drugs, developed a heart attack and died about three months after taking cheap SPC drugs', and his grandmother whose bronchitis did not improve with a generic drug. Even more hilarious is his uncritical, self-eulogizing, such as quote: "I have been working as a cardiologist in the Institute of Cardiology, National Hospital Colombo for 23 years and I have saved thousands of dying heart patients".

Dr. DPA in this letter, among other derogatory references to Professor Fonseka , refers to him as quote: "One academic professor, who appears to have senile delusions". Considering the achievements of Prof. Fonseka, such a view could only come from one who has no insight into one's own severe psychiatric disturbance.

Before I conclude, may I comment on two statements made by Dr. DPA.

1) Sri Lanka does not have sufficient facilities to test the quality of most of these branded drugs at present".

2) Referring to Prof. Fonseka he says, quote: "He is also not a member of the Sri Lanka Drug Regulatory Authority (DRA) as is the case of DPA and S.L. who have served in the DRA for quite some time.

It is not the function of the DRA or a national quality control lab to test for the quality of a manufacturer's dugs. The manufacturer has to supply a DRA with all the scientific and technological data (which includes "bioequivalence testing" for generic drugs), which are required of it by the DRA, and in some cases submit an inspection of the facilities which are involved in the manufacture of the drug to ensure compliance. The DRA then approves the drug and monitors its performance after its sale. A properly constituted DRA must consist of physicians, scientists, technologists, statisticians etc with experience, and no conflict of interest.

"Bioequivalence testing" involves the comparing of the effect of a generic drug with the original, in volunteers, (and sometimes individuals with the disease), for which the drug is intended. It is expensive, and it is beyond the capacity of any single laboratory to test for all drugs.

The current mayhem regarding generic drugs is ample evidence that the DRA in SL seems to be totally incompetent and irresponsible as regarding the education of health professionals and the public, and safeguarding the public's health, in regard to drugs. The confession of Dr. DPA regarding his service and that of his colleague in the DRA, sheds at least some light on the reason for this predicament.





