Sri Lanka Under-19 slumped to a massive nine wicket defeat as openers Ahmed Shehzad with an unbeaten 90 runs and Umer Akmal with a blazing half-century guided Pakistan to their second victory over hosts in the tri-nation tournament match played at the SSC ground yesterday.

Having posted 214 runs after a fiery opening burst from Pakistani pacemen reduced hosts to 37 for six at one stage, Sri Lanka were never in the mood to avenge their first defeat suffered at Colts Grounds last week. Their chances of defending the modest total soon evaporated as the Pakistani openers put on a haughty first wicket stand of 141 runs. With just aggressive opener Akmal departing for 75 runs, Pakistan cruised to victory with 13 overs to spare.

While Akmal scored eight fours and a six in his 65 ball knock, Shehzad remained unbeaten scoring 90 runs (9x4s) in 113 balls to see Pakistan reach the target with out losing further wickets.

The openers had no threat from the Sri Lankan pacemen as they scored aggressively reaching 50 runs in seven overs. Denuwan Fernando who opened the bowling for Sri Lanka was hit for 23 runs in his fourth over as Akmal cut loose hitting him all over the park.

Sri Lanka suffered a huge setback when left arm paceman Chathura Peiris got injured while trying to stop a hard hit stroke off his own bowling in his second over.

While Pakistan grew with a confidence boosting partnership, Sri Lanka had no way to stop the flow of runs. The only bowler to pick up a wicket for them was Sachith Pathirana, who bowled his full quota of ten overs for 40 runs.

Put to bat first Sri Lankan top order had no clues to how to negotiate the fierce opening burst of Mohammad Amir who wrecked havoc picking up three wickets in his first over. He had Dilshan Munaweera bowled for a duck and Kushal Janith caught by wicket keeper Ali Asad in his next delivery. Though he missed a hit-trick, Amir had his third wicket in the same over when he had Roshane Silva lbw for four runs. His new ball partner Adil Raza had his first victim in his very first ball when Dinesh Chandimal was bowled.

They picked up two more wickets to leave Sri Lanka struggling at 37 for 6. While Imesh Udayanga was lbw for 11 runs Angelo Perera was lbw without scoring.

After the early slump, Ashan Priyanjana and Sachith Pathirana did repair work taking Sri Lanka beyond three figures. Pathirana scored a patient 31 runs in 63 deliveries while Priyanjana anchored the other end scoring 63 runs in 86 deliveries before being run out by Umer Akmal.

He departed with the score on 136 for eight and at that stage it looked like Sri Lanka won't go pass 200. But the Joe-Pete combination of Thisara Perera and Chathura Peiris put on a defiant ninth wicket stand of 76 runs. While Peiris scored 24 Thisara added life to the Sri Lankan camp hitting an aggressive 47 runs in 45 balls. His knock included one four and two powerfully hit sixes over mid on.





