I refer to the article A doomed region written by Kuldip Nayar, carried by The Island of.31.12.09.

In Pakistan, we appreciate the desire for working together with all regional countries to strengthen our region to fight the common enemies as hunger, poverty, backwardness and terrorism. But to achieve this goal, such as rightly pointed out by our learned columnist,' to ego and enmity towards one another must be removed. In this column, again and again references were made to Pakistan . I would like to clarify a few points in this regard.

In Pakistan, we are not much worried of big brother phenomenon. We have cordial relations with regional countries i.e. Sri Lanka , Maldives , Bangladesh, etc. These are not on terms of big brothership. They are free to live with or without a big brother or whom so ever they like to choose as their big brother, whether India, China or anybody else. Pakistan is not in this race, neither exerts any pressure in this regard. Pakistan is well aware of the Indian hegemonic role in the politics of regional countries but Pakistan never implied any demand on these countries for change of their policies. However, the Indian intelligentsia looks at neighbouring countries with their tinted glasses, shaded by their dream for a super power role for India in the region. Hence they believe all regional countries should pursue a foreign policy well dictated by Indian pressure groups and also follow it in their domestic issues i.e. constitutional reforms, trade policy, etc.

It is very unfair to say that, "Terrorism was the genie which the Pakistan government brought out from the bottle". Everybody knows well across the globe about the sacrifices Pakistan is giving as the frontline state in war on terrorism. As pointed out by President of Pakistan, Asif Ali Zardari, in an article that, 'In its fight against the Soviets, the United States, as a matter of policy, supported the most radical elements within the Mujahedeen, who would later become the Taliban and Al Qaeda. When the Soviets were defeated and left in 1989, the United States abandoned Pakistan and created a vacuum in Afghanistan, resulting in the current horror.' Therefore, it is absolutely unjustified to blame Pakistan for the menace of terrorism which itself is a victim of terrorism. The role Indian agencies are playing from Afghan soil to fuel unrest and infiltration of terrorists through Baluchistan and Northern region of Pakistan, where Pakistan military is occupied in operation against the terrorists, is of grave concern, not only for Pakistan but also for the international community engaged in the war against terrorism.

The Pakistan government, under the leadership of President Asif Ali Zardari, and Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani, is paying its full attention to bring political stability and socio economic development in the country which was hampered off and on in the past due to the unscrupulous elements active in the country. To address the grievances of the people, the government has taken some land mark historical steps. The Government has approved a selfgovernance reforms package for the country's Northern Areas aimed at giving it full internal autonomy under the name of Gilgit Baltistan, and held elections there. Besides, recently announced financial packages to provinces for payment of their long neglected dues from royalties and other source, announcement of Agahz-e-Haqooqe Baluchistan package and declaration of 7th NFC (National Finance Commission ) award are few of the successes among others of the present government to create harmony and good relations among centre and provinces. Various other projects, launched by the present government for socio economic uplift of the country as Benazir Income Support Program, will further help to crease out the differences of the provinces through prosperity and development. The Government is particularly determined to address the grievances of the people of Baluchistan by increasing allocation for PSDP, their quota in government jobs and giving them age relaxation to join in. A recent cabinet meeting, in open sea at Gawadar Port, has focused world attention on Gawadar Port which would be soon fully operational and would provide immense opportunities for employment and development for the people of Baluchistan . Hence, Pakistan federation is strengthened under the dynamic leadership and farsighted vision of the present government. Under the policy of reconciliation, all political parties, including the opposition, are strengthening the government efforts to eliminate terrorism and backwardness from the country. All state institutions are enjoying unprecedented full freedom in the country and working without any pressure. Pakistan armed forces are playing exemplary role to meet internal and external threats to the state.

In so far as Pakistan India relations are concerned these can not be normalize until India is ready to find out an acceptable solution for the Kashmir issue to all parties concerned, as pointed out by president Zardari that "even to those of us who are striving toward accommodation and peace, the long history and the unresolved situation in Kashmir give Pakistanis reason to be concerned about our neighbour to the east. Just as the Israeli-Palestinian dispute cannot be resolved without accommodating the Palestinian people, there cannot be permanent regional peace in South Asia without addressing Kashmir."

Thus Pakistan fully agree to strengthen the region under the umbrella of SAARC by joining hands to fight away evils from our region which are creating obstacles in our path of development and prosperity. But for this we have to come out of big brother psyche and accept each others existence with open heart and mutual respect. Our intelligentsia and think tanks need to guide the people of their country to work for the mutual interest with the people of other countries in the region instead of misleading them by their concocted blame stories about neighbouring states.

We hope 2010 would be a promising year for all the regional countries!





