ADELAIDE, Australia (AP) Australian wicketkeeper Adam Gilchrist said Sunday there was "nothing sinister" in his sudden and unexpected retirement from test cricket.

Gilchrist, 36, announced his retirement in a television interview shortly after stumps on the third day of the fourth cricket test against India at the Adelaide Oval Saturday, a day after achieving a world record 414th test dismissal.

He said he will not speak at length about his retirement until the fourth test concludes but granted a further interview with Australia's Channel Nine on Sunday to emphasize his decision was reached happily, without pressure and on his own initiative.

"Mind you (I'm) a bit confused. I said in my press release I wasn't going to do any press until the end of the game but I guess, on reflection and seeing the amazing response from so many friends, family, supporters, opponents, it's just been unbelievable.

"I guess this morning I just wanted to say to the Australian public and other media outlets out there I just can't wait to focus on this test match and then at the end of it I can't wait to share it all with everyone.

"Please, hang with me for another day and I'll share as much as I can. I can't wait to talk about it all."

Gilchrist dropped a regulation catch from V.V.S. Laxman during India's first innings in Adelaide, leading to speculation it was that incident - the indication his concentration and reactions are not what they were - that led to his retirement.

"There's nothing sinister or anything to hide," he said. "There's no reason why I'm not talking openly about it at the moment. I can't wait until the end and talk about it then."

The West Australia gloveman made his test debut in 1999 and has played 96 tests in succession, also a record.

Gilchrist helped revolutionize the test game as an attacking batsman from No. 7 and scored 5,556 runs at 47.89, with a highest score of 204 not out.

He scored 17 test centuries.

Gilchrist also captained Australia in five tests, in the absence of Steve Waugh and then Ricky Ponting, for a record of three wins, one loss and one draw.

Tributes flowed in for Gilchrist, first from his Australian teammate Matthew Hayden whose innings of 103 had previously been the most newsworthy event of the third day.

Hayden said it had been a privilege to play with Gilchrist.

"He's been a remarkable Australian, he's held the baggy green in his hand with great pride and passion, great discipline, great work ethic," Hayden said.

"(He's) a fantastic leader and had an ability to be able to change the game and that has made Adam one of the greatest players who has ever played the game.

"He'll be deeply, deeply missed ... greatness is what we've aspired to be in the Australian cricket team, and he's fulfilled everything that has been asked of him by all of his captains and as captain himself throughout that wonderful series in India, where we won the series 2-1."

Gilchrist made his first-class debut in 1992-93 for New South Wales but established himself when he crossed the country and played for Western Australia. He made his international debut in 1996 when he played the first of 277 one-day internationals.

He was a star in the limited-overs game as an opening batsman, and played a part in Australia's World Cup triumphs in 1999, 2003 and last year in the Caribbean.

In one-day internationals he has scored 9,297 runs at an average of 36.03, with 15 centuries and a highest score of 172, and he took a total of 454 dismissals.

Despite breaking the test 'keeping record, he has endured his struggles this summer through several costly dropped catches. However he had maintained he would not be pushed into retirement.

Gilchrist's position is likely to be taken by New South Wales wicketkeeper Brad Haddin, his recent understudy.





