Reference the lengthy essay captioned 'The question of rebirth' by Dr Granville Dharmawardena (GD)(The Island – December 28, 2009), I was more saddened than surprised to read the following statement by him.

'Recently such a neurologist, Richard Rastac, rationally proved that human beings do not have minds. He looked for minds in his patients' heads by examining them with X-rays, CAT-scans and PET-scans and stated that because he couldn't see a mind in any of them human beings do not have minds. He is so blinded by rationalism that he cannot accept the fact that the mind is beyond the scope of rational knowledge and cannot be examined by scientific equipment designed to examine material features of the body.'

Let me at the outset correct the misspelling by GD. It is not 'Rastac' but 'Rastak'. Dr. Richard Rastak does not deserve to be ridiculed and disgraced in this manner. It is GD and not Dr. Rastak, who has carried it to a ludicrous extreme by a process of 'reductio ad absurdum' and created this man-has-no-mind story.

Described by 'Scientific American' journal as 'one of the world's most important scientific thinkers', Dr. Rastak is currently the Clinical Professor of Neurology at George Washington University School of Medicine and Health Sciences, and author of 18 books, in addition to copious academic monographs. He holds many prestigious positions as well, too numerous to mention here.

Neurologists and physiologists tell us in unison that while mind and mental processes cannot be perceived by the five senses, yet their manifestations in a diversity of ways are visible. In this sense, they are comparable to electricity, magnetism, force of gravity, etc. They can be detected and even measured to the milli-point, to be perceived by senses.

They further tell us that the mind bears an entirely physical basis. Mental activity is an electro-chemical process that takes place in the neuron cells in the human brain. Thus, psychiatrists take the necessary measurements and treat mental ailments by suitably dealing with this electro-chemical process. As we all know, the pills and tablets, prescribed by psychiatrists are all chemical compounds and electroencephalography is an electrical mechanism, for example.

As for past life therapy, referred to by GD, it has nothing to do with rebirth. Let us hear Wikipedia on this subject.

'The use of hypnosis and suggestive questions make the subject particularly likely to hold distorted or false memories. The source of the memories is more likely cryptomnesia and confabulations that combine past experiences, knowledge, imagination and suggestion or guidance from the hypnotist than recall of a previous existence.' I listened to Dr. D. J. V. Harischandra, a psychiatrist, saying the same thing over the TV, the other day.

I am keen to know how GD cured a 14-year-old girl patient by past life therapy. Please give us details if he has verified the facts relating to her past life. I present this poser for a reason. We are aware that those cases, where GD hypnotized children, brought by him, inside air-conditioned TV studios before cameras and got their past lives revealed, turned out to be pure fantasy, providing entertainment to the viewers.

Or, is it similar to GD, together with his team, displaying psychic powers of Asilin from Yakkala, telecast on the Rupavahini program Sumaga on April 20 and 27, 1998. Here, the viewers finally came to know it was a gigantic fraud, perpetrated on them. I have written a detailed account of it in the first chapter of my last book.





