As an exercise in mental discipline, try feeling indignant about 31-year-old Jerome Kerviel, the rogue trader responsible for losing his employers, Société Générale, £3.7bn. It's not easy is it? The indignation slips through the mind like mercury through fingers. Why is this? Obviously he's been a bad lad and he has some time to serve on the naughty step. But what he did was not nasty or vicious. Kiddies weren't fiddled with. Lives weren't lost. And actually, our first response when we hear of vast sums of money being lost in this way is either to chuckle indulgently or to whistle in awe.

I say "in this way", but there hasn't really ever been anything "in this way" before. Kerviel's is the biggest fraud in history. Even Nick Leeson, the man who brought down Barings bank when he lost £791 million in 1995, looks cautious compared to this guy. It is being suggested now that Kerviel was one of the reasons why the world's stock markets crashed so spectacularly last week; one of the reasons we are now all teetering on the brink of a global recession. D'oh! Or, as the French say, D'oh!

But the point is, below our surface indignation, we cannot help but see a certain nobility in risking everything on what the poet called "one turn of pitch-and-toss". What nerves this Kerviel must have had. What agonies of self-doubt he must have overcome. Those of us who play safe in life always feel a little jealous when confronted with a truly audacious risk-taker. They seem manlier than the rest of us. More alive. There seems to be more adrenaline coursing through their veins and more dopamine fizzing through their frontal lobes. All the great tragic heroes were pathological risk-takers: Achilles, Macbeth, Andy Kershaw. What they represent for us is the vicarious thrill of the taboo.

We are taught from childhood to show restraint, quit while we're ahead, tread carefully. Kerviel thought the opposite: I'm going to chase my losses and bet more money. Officially he was responsible for "plain vanilla futures hedging on European equity market indices". But what he was really doing was the financial equivalent of ski jumping, a sport where the risk increases the further you jump.

Part of this paradox, this reluctance we feel to dislike him, lies with the word "rogue". It is a term of endearment. The mind is programmed to hear the word "loveable" before it. Webster's dictionary, indeed, defines a rogue as "one who is pleasantly mischievous or frolicsome". The word originated in medieval England when "sturdy rogues" were a class of wandering, disorderly peasant. The standard punishment for a sturdy rogue who had been pleasantly mischievous was to bore the gristle of his right ear with a hot iron. Nowadays we punish rogues by making films about their adventures. (It was of course that most loveable of Hollywood stars, Ewan McGregor, who played Nick Leeson in the film Rogue Trader.) Either that or we turn them into bestselling authors, as was the case with David Bullen, a rogue trader who, in 2004, lost his bank $340m. He wrote a tell-all book about it, before abandoning capitalism for Buddhism. Well, he could afford to.

Roguery isn't necessarily confined to white-collar crimes - the Great Train Robbers all managed to pull off loveable rogue status - but it usually is. I think of Conrad Black as a loveable rogue. Even Jeffrey Archer, at a pinch. If they see a line they cross it. If they meet a boundary they push at it. Rogues even have their own gallery in our collective imaginations. We like to contemplate them. He - it is hard to imagine a female rogue - is the second cousin to the cad. Like the cad, the rogue has a certain flamboyance, as well as devilish good looks. Who will play Jerome Kerviel in the inevitable film? Hmm. He bears a passing resemblance to loveable, handsome Ben Stiller.





