Arpico Finance Co.'s positive ratings weighed down by high overheads

RAM Ratings Lanka has reaffirmed Arpico Finance Company PLC's long- and short-term financial institutions ratings at BB and NP, respectively. Concurrently, the outlook on the long-term rating has been revised from stable to positive. The positive outlook reflects the considerable improvement in the Company's asset-quality indicators in recent years, despite the non-conducive economic climate. Arpico's ratings are supported by its better-than-average asset quality and adequate capital base. Nevertheless, the ratings are weighed down by high overheads, which hinder Arpico's performance, and its small size, the ratings agency said in a statement.

Established in 1951, Arpico is the second-oldest registered finance company ("RFC") in Sri Lanka. Despite its long operating history, the Company has remained small, accounting for less than 1% of the industry's total assets as at end-March 2010.

Arpico has maintained its better-than-average asset quality. The Company's gross non-performing-loan (NPL) ratio eased to 3.08% as at end-August 2010, from 4.83% as at end-FYE 31 March 2009. Its achievement in curtailing NPLs is even more impressive considering that its gross NPL ratio had climbed up to 32.01% as at end-FY Mar 2004. Notably, Arpico has managed to improve its asset quality despite the harsh economic climate that prevailed over the last 2 financial years, during which most of its industry peers had reported worsening NPLs. The Company's better showing is anchored by a reduction in absolute NPLs through its conservative lending, strengthened monitoring and recovery procedures as well as expanding loan portfolio. Meanwhile, adequate provisioning has permitted Arpico to also record a better net NPL ratio of 1.26% as at end-August 2010 (end-FY Mar 2009: 2.41%).

While its asset quality has ameliorated, Arpico's performance has still been hampered by rising overheads and lacklustre demand for real estate. The Company's cost-to-income ratio had been elevated to 94.35% as at end-FY Mar 2010 (end-FY Mar 2009: 90.48%). Furthermore, overheads are expected to ascend in line with the opening of new branches. Nonetheless, RAM Ratings Lanka expects Arpico's performance to improve once the new branches break even.

Meanwhile, we opine the Company's capital cushioning is adequate. The Company's core and overall capital-adequacy ratios remained at a respective 14.83% and 17.51% as at end-FY Mar 2010, well above the minimum statutory requirements of 5% and 10%.





* Mystery crack on the ground at KuchchuveliNone would have known if not for two boys

January 27, 2011, 9:46 pm

by Shamindra Ferdinando

Chief of the Geological Survey and Mines Bureau (GSMB) Dr. N. P. Wijayananda says that had it not been for two boys from a tsunami village, the country wouldn't have even heard about the recent earth cracks in Kuchchuveli. One of the boys had stepped on a crack, from which an unidentified sticky substance oozed, Dr. Wijayananda said.

Dr. Vijayananda said that it was a normal happening and there was absolutely nothing to worry about. Responding to a query by The Island, Dr. Wijayananda said that once a team dispatched to investigate the 'cracks' returned, a report would be submitted to the government. He dismissed the perception that this could be sign of an earthquake.

Senior Geologist Dr. Starin Fernando, a member of the GSMB team, which investigated the Kuchchuveli phenomenon said that a similar 'ground condition' had been observed at Madampe in the Chilaw area some time back, though nothing oozed out of the ground like at Kuchchuveli.

Responding to a query, Dr. Fernando asserted that oozing of a clay, sand and water out of the ground couldn't have been caused by recent heavy rains, though rains could have created the conditions for the still





UPFA loses all Jaffna LG bodies, several others even before polls

* UNP loses about seven; JVP, SLMC, TNA two each * Polls to 301 LG bodies scheduled for March 17

January 27, 2011, 9:41 pm

The ruling UPFA's bid to consolidate its political power at grassroots in the Jaffna peninsula and Kilinochchi suffered a major setback yesterday (27) when nomination papers for all 16 local bodies in the Jaffna peninsula and three local bodies in Kilinochchi were rejected by the Jaffna Elections Secretariat.

UPFA nomination papers for the Nuwara-Eliya Pradeshiya Sabha and Lindula-Talawakele Urban council were also rejected.

UPFA constituent the Ceylon Workers Congress (CWC) fielded candidates for the Nuwara-Eliya and Lindula-Talawakele local bodies on the UPFA ticket.

The Elections Secretariat yesterday evening said that elections for 301 local government bodies would be held on March 17. Earlier, UNP leader Ranil Wickremesinghe demanded an explanation from the government after Prime Minister D. M. Jayaratne declared that the election would be held on March 12.

The JVP had its nomination papers for Wuilgamuwa PS and Nattandiya PS rejected. Sources said that the number of nomination papers filed by independent groups had been rejected.

Former PA MP Ven. Baddegama Samitha thera told The Island that the LSSP would contest Baddegama PS as an independent group. The long standing LSSPer said that the party had decided to go it alone after the ruling coalition declined to accommodate some of LSSP nominees. The UPFA member of the Southern Provincial Council yesterday handed over nominations to contest Baddegama PS.

The TNA nomination lists for Pooneryn PS and Pachchilaipalli PS were rejected.

In the Matatle District the SLMC nomination lists for Ukuwela PS had been rejected. Also the SLMC nominations for Akurana PS in the Kandy District were rejected.





Sri Lanka name their WC squad for Windies ODIs

January 27, 2011, 10:25 pm

Sri Lanka yesterday named squad that is identical to their World Cup squad for the three-match ODI series against touring West Indies starting January 31. All three matches will be played at the SSC, Colombo. The series is the last international assignment for both teams in the lead-up to the World Cup, beginning on Feb. 19.





Lessons learnt ... and some not!

January 27, 2011, 12:00 pm

Reports in the media would have us believe that the so-called "LTTE rump" is beginning to regroup to engage in their campaign for an "Eelam". If their activities seek to mimic those of their main body, finally subdued by more than two decades of indescribable suffering, it is now time to act.

When militant Tamil youth were organising themselves for mayhem at the instigation of short-sighted racist politicians, a succession of effete and purblind governments fiddled around until they found themselves in the pitiful state where they had to exhort other countries to ban a now vicious and uncontrollable gang, while themselves trotting out highly unconvincing reasons for not doing so themselves. Predictably, we were virtually told to go fly a kite!

A clandestine group with no constructive plans except a mere mouthing of a vacuous "mother land" myth and an undefined desire for "autonomy" and engaging in unspeakable and indiscriminate violence held sway for years. It was only the Mavil Aru blunder on the part of the LTTE that awakened a slumbering State to the realisation that such criminality had to be met with legitimate force. Fortunately, an inspired Army carried it out to a necessary conclusion. The Government has still to convince various disbelievers that it positively had no other choice.

An inscrutable unwillingness to nip things in the bud led to the loss of over a hundred thousand lives and billions worth of property and a massive setback to all that the nation should have been doing. A self satisfying "virtue" of tolerance and refusal to be "provoked" were invoked to cover timidity and hesitance. In hindsight, the better reaction would have been a clear signal and action that such crimes will not be silently borne - provided the real culprits and not innocent surrogates should suffer .Do we desire history to repeat itself?

If not, let us even now act to declare resolutely, and make it universally known, that membership of a resurrected LTTE or body with like aims, will be considered as a Capital Offence with zero tolerance. Having done so, it is vital to establish unwavering seriousness by implementing this intent. There are international precedents - for example, the uncompromising attitude to drug peddlers and possessors by certain countries. If the present government desires to continue to protect some of its recently acquired darlings, it could make the new laws not retrospective, drawing strength from the Privy Council judgment that freed the 1971 Coup accused.

Readers will also be aware that during a recent appearance on the BBC's "Hard Talk" programme, our Defence Secretary declared as his (authoritative) opinion, that "Treason" will attract the death penalty. How much more Treasonable would it be for persons to co-operate in any action that may lead to future loss of life and property of innocent non-combatants?





The Finance Co. Rs. 1.6bn share issue attracts Rs. 1.03bn on day 4

The share issue which opened last Friday (21) was for 40 million ordinary shares at Rs. 40 each.

By the fourth day (26) the issue attracted applications for 25,701,600 shares amounting to Rs 1,028,064,000. The applications were made up by 2 bank guarantees and 1,831 bank cheques and drafts, managers of the issue Merchant Bank of Sri Lanka told the Colombo Stock Exchange yesterday (27).

Incorporated 70 years ago, The Finance Company (TFC) is the country's oldest non-bank financial institution.

The IPO does not seem to be enjoying the same kind of investor enthusiasm enjoyed by the majority of IPOs in the recent past which were oversubscribed within the first day with bank guarantees backing up application for entire issues.





Revenue for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 was $55.6 million, an increase of 33% year-over-year and 6% sequentially. On a constant currency basis, third quarter fiscal 2011 revenue increased 34% year-over-year and 5% sequentially.

Virtusa reported income from operations of $5.0 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2011, an increase compared to $3.4 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2010, and an increase compared to $4.0 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2011.

Net income for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 increased to $4.2 million, or $0.17 per diluted share, compared to $2.9 million, or $0.12 per diluted share, for the third quarter of fiscal 2010, and $3.7 million, or $0.15 per diluted share, for the second quarter of fiscal 2011. Net income for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 included $0.5 million of foreign currency transaction losses.

Virtusa ended the third quarter of fiscal 2011 with $103.3 million of cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term investments. The Company generated cash from operations of $8.8 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2011.

Kris Canekeratne, Virtusa's Chairman and CEO, stated, "We are pleased with third quarter performance which was driven by broad based growth. We are enthusiastic about the increasing investment in areas such as cloud, social and mobile computing. This is necessitating programs to rationalize IT applications, accelerate time to market and improve the consumer experience. Our expertise positions us well to partner with our clients and lead them through this transformation."

= Fourth quarter fiscal 2011 revenue is expected to be in the range of $57.3 to $59.3 million, with diluted EPS of $0.19 to $0.23.

= Fiscal year 2011 revenue is expected to be in the range of $217 to $219 million, with diluted EPS of $0.64 to $0.68.

The Company's fourth quarter and fiscal year 2011 diluted EPS estimates assume an average share count of approximately 25.1 million and 24.7 million, respectively (assuming no further exercises of stock-based awards), and assume a stock price of $17.12 per share, which was derived from the average closing price of the Company's stock over the five trading days ended on January 25, 2011. Deviations from this stock price may cause actual EPS to vary based on share dilution from Virtusa's stock options and stock appreciation rights.





Ambassador Dayan Jayatilleka presents credentials at UNESCO

January 27, 2011, 10:10 pm

Sri Lanka's newly appointed Permanent Delegate to UNESCO, Dr. Dayan Jayatilleka presented his credentials to the Director General of UNESCO, Madam Irina Bokova at the Headquarters of the organization in Paris today (26.01.2011). The Director General welcomed Ambassador Jayatilleka to UNESCO and noted the long history of cooperation and contribution made by Sri Lanka on the Executive Board in particular and at UNESCO in general. She inquired about the role of education in the post conflict context.

Ambassador Jayatilleka stated that the values of UNESCO which nurture dialogue, appreciate diversity and recognize pluralism were critical for member states. He added that the role UNESCO continued to play was important as it fostered the closer cooperation of differing collective entities and helped in raising consciousness.

He said that the late Prof. Huntington had even mentioned Sri Lanka as an example of fault line conflicts and hoped that an organization like UNESCO which attempted to counter that notion of the so-called clash of civilizations and instead bolstered understanding and mutual respect, would be the ideal platform for further enhancing dialogue.

He noted that whilst looking forward to the visit of the Director General to Sri Lanka in the course of 2011, the focus on education for peace and sustainable development by Sri Lanka was essential and the possible holding of a symposium on best practices for the transition in the building of peace would help mainstream the UNESCO message and perspective.





Stocks close 0.4 percent lower

January 27, 2011, 7:33 pm

Stocks closed down Thursday (27) with poultry stocks running out of steam, while price banks also kept plantation stocks in check, brokers said.

The All Share Price Index closed at 7,211.11, down 0.42 percent (-30.76 points) while the Milanka Price Index of more liquid stocks closed at 7,195.82, down 0.35 percent (-25.03 points) according to stock exchange provisional figures.

Turnover was 4.1 billion rupees.

Bairaha Farms closed 477.00, down 18.00 rupees though net profits for the December 2010 quarter rose 546 percent to 163 million rupees from a year earlier, with other poultry stocks following suit.









De La Salle thrash Bens 40-18

Under-13 Colombo Zonal BB

January 27, 2011, 10:28 pm

De La Salle College, Mutwal thrashed St. Benedict's College, Kotahena 40-18 in a Group 'A' one-sided tournament match of the Colombo North Zonal Basketball Tournament, played at Gateway College, Colombo, yesterday.

De La Salle dominated the proceeding from the word go. The half time scores read 24-4 in favour of De La Salle and therefore they used a second string team in the second half but still managed to win the game comfortably.

For the winners, Anushka Dilan was outstanding as he accounted for 12 points while his team-mates, Supun Lakmal and Janitha Lakshan, scored 10 and eight points respectively.

For the losing side, Shehan Longines played a lone hand and scored ten points.

Meanwhile in another match, Gateway College registered 48-35 victory over St. Joseph's College, Darley Road.

Melantha Jansz top-scored for the winners with 14 points while Charane Anthony and Nathosh Wijendran scored seven each for losing team. Meanwhile, Colombo International School also registered a victory when they defeated Ananda College, Colombo 27-20 in a Group 'B' match played at Ananda College.





China says US will lose business if export controls remain in place

January 27, 2011, 7:38 pm

By Ding Qingfen China Daily

The United States will probably allow huge business opportunities to go to European Union (EU) countries and Japan if it refuses to rescind controls on exports to China as soon as possible, according to Chinese government officials.

The comments came at a monthly forum on China-US Economic Relations held by the China Center for International Economic Exchanges (CCIEE) - a high-level business thinktank - on Wednesday.

Wei Jianguo, a former vice-minister of commerce, and now secretary-general of the CCIEE, urged the US to quickly reduce restrictions on high-tech exports to China in a bid to narrow the trade surplus, an issue that has become central to bilateral trade conflicts.

"The sooner the US does it (loosens the restrictions), the more leverage it will gain in the future and the more commercial benefits it will gain otherwise, the business opportunities (in terms of high-volume Chinese imports of high-tech products) will naturally slip away to other nations, including those in the EU and Japan," said Wei.

During the 3rd China-EU High-Level Economic and Trade Dialogue held in Beijing in December, the EU agreed to set up a working panel to examine boosting high-tech sales to China.

A meeting on the issue is expected to be held early this year, after the two sides reached a consensus on increasing cooperation on high-tech trade.

China has a large trade surplus with the US, which the US attributes to the yuan being undervalued.

China denies this, and says that the best way to promote Chinese imports is for the US to abandon its restrictions on high-tech exports.

The export of high-tech products to China, for both military and civilian use, has long been forbidden by the US despite repeated calls for change.

During President Hu Jintao's four-day visit to Washington last week, China again made a proposal on the issue during the bilateral high-level meeting.

Although China signed a series of agreements on purchasing US goods worth as much as US$45 billion, no progress was made on the issues of export controls. "China and the US have been cooperating well, but US export controls are a big problem in bilateral economic relations," said Sun Zhenyu, the former Chinese ambassador to the World Trade Organization, at the forum. "US exports to China would easily increase if such a restriction did not exist."

Some US companies have also agreed with that statment.

"The US government has to look at reducing controls, because erecting barriers cannot be the answer to US need to create jobs and prosperous growth," said Mark Norbom, president of General Electric China.

GE, the largest US industrial company by market value, announced a number of deals with Chinese groups last week that will create about 4,500 jobs in the US, including the formal signing of a joint venture agreement with the Aviation Industry Corporation of China to set up a 50-50 joint venture to provide avionics for the new Chinese C919 airliner.





NFF condoles with Russia over airport bomb attack

January 27, 2011, 10:11 pm

"It is with deep sorrow and disgust we learnt about the suicide bomb attack at the Russia's Domodedova airport on Monday, the 24th January, killing 35 and injuring over 150. As a nation that suffered for over 30 years of brutal separatist war we need no explanations or persuasion to understand the inhuman nature of these brutal terrorist attack on civilians", states a message addressed to the Russian Embassy in Sri Lanka, by the National Freedom Front.

"We would like to express our stronger condemnation of this attack. We would also like to express our solidarity with the Russian people by sharing their grief and also expressing our solidarity and unconditional support in the fight against this brutal terrorist campaign,", it further said.





London Fashion College academics launch CPD course at Moratuwa university

January 30, 2011, 11:19 am

Dr.Julia Wolny and Dr.Lynne Hammond

Two leading academics from the London College of Fashion yesterday commenced an eight week course on Continuing Professional Development (CPD) at the Moratuwa University. The LCF's Manager of International Educational Consultancy Dr.Lynne Hammond and Director of Fashion Business Resource Studio Dr.Julia Wolny assisted by Dr Nirmali de Silva from the Moratuwa University are conducting the course. The topics include "The Business Environment and Entrepreneurs","Marketing your Apparel business" "Understanding your customer", "Business Modelling", "Pitching and Presenting Business Ideas and Concepts", "Case Study Analysis of Successful Brands" and "Branding Concepts and Strategies.

The project, is being funded by the British Council to support the growth of Entrepreneurship in Sri Lanka. Dr.Hammond said that the CPD unit will focus on three key elements,namely the founding of a new fashion business,the development stages of a fledgling business and how to foster professional management within a maturing small fashion business.

"Upon successful completion of the CPD unit individuals should be able to evaluate a new business opportunity and assess the idea's viability as a business;apply professional planning and management skills and knowledge needed for a new business;able to communicate the business strategy and operations to stakeholders through verbal or written communications ,recognise the needs for the internal and external team required for a micro or small business and appraise practice and skills to project their future within the industry"

Delegates will be expected to produce a business report that explores new business models and evaluate the challenges and conditions that are critical to sustainability and survival,she said. "This evaluation should be set in the context of a new start up business or an existing business unit that needs to become proactive and influence change within an organisation.The unit will be delivered through a combination of lectures, seminars and group tutorials. Relevant fashion industry case studies will be used in seminars to enable students to demonstrate understanding of contemporary issues."





Daunting for President Barack Obama, the nonpartisan agency estimates a nationwide unemployment rate of 8.2 percent on Election Day in 2012.

The budget estimates will add fuel to the already-raging debate over spending and looming legislation that would allow the government to borrow more money as the national debt nears the $14.3 trillion cap set by law. Republicans controlling the House say there's no way they'll raise the limit without significant budget cuts, starting with a government funding bill that will advance next month.

The chilling figures came the day after Obama called in his State of the Union address for a five-year freeze on optional spending in domestic agency budgets passed by Congress each year.

Wednesday's Congressional Budget Office estimates indicate the government will have to borrow 40 cents for every dollar it spends this fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30. Tax revenues are projected to drop to their lowest levels since 1950, when measured against the size of the economy.

The report, full of nasty news, also says that after decades of surpluses for the federal Social Security pension program, its vast costs are no longer covered by payroll taxes.

Democrats and Republicans agree that stern anti-deficit steps are needed, but neither Obama nor his resurgent rivals in Congress are -so far - willing to put on the table cuts to popular benefit programs such as farm subsidies and entitlement programs for the elderly like Social Security and Medicare. The need to pass legislation to fund the government and prevent a first-ever default on U.S. debt obligations seems sure to drive the two sides into negotiations.

Though the analysis predicts the economy will grow by 3.1 percent this year, it foresees unemployment remaining above 9 percent.

As Obama looks ahead to next year's White House race, a predicted jobless rate of 8.2 percent does not bode well: it would be higher that the rates that contributed to losses by Presidents Jimmy Carter (7.5 percent) and George H.W. Bush (7.4 percent). The United States isn't projected to be at full employment - considered to be a jobless rate of about 5 percent - until 2016.

The latest deficit figures are up from previous estimates because of bipartisan legislation passed in December that extended George W. Bush-era tax cuts and unemployment benefits for the long-term jobless and provided a 2 percentage point Social Security payroll tax cut this year.

That measure added almost $400 billion to this year's deficit, CBO says.

The deficit is on track to beat the record of $1.4 trillion set in 2009. The budget experts predict the deficit will drop to $1.1trillion next year, still very high by historical standards.

Republicans focus on Obama's contributions to the deficit: his $821 billion economic stimulus plan, boosts for domestic programs and his signature health care overhaul. Obama points out that he inherited deficits that would have exceeded $1 trillion a year anyway.

Republicans were quick to blame Obama for the rising red ink. Rep. Jeb Hensarllng, chairman of the House Republican Conference, said the report "paints a picture that is more dangerous than most Americans could anticipate."

Republicans are calling for deeper cuts for education, housing and the FBI - among many programs - to return them to the 2008 levels in place before Obama took office.

But those nondefense programs make up just 12 or so percent of the $3.7 trillion budget, which means any upcoming deficit reduction package - at least one that begins to significantly slow the gush of red ink - will require politically dangerous curbs to popular benefit programs. That includes Social Security, Medicare, the Medicaid health care program for the poor and disabled, and food vouchers.





Charging alcoholic accident victims for treatment

January 27, 2011, 12:00 pm

by Dilanthi Jayamanne

The All Ceylon Health Services Union yesterday warned the government that it would fight any effort to jeopardise the free healthcare system by getting accident victims, found after liquor, to pay for their treatment.

ACHSU President Gamini Kumarasinghe said that they would discuss the issue with all other trade unions and unite with them to protest against this move by the government to earn from free health care.

"It's against medical ethics to charge an accident victim just because he has met with the accident due to alcohol consumption. It is not the duty of the health worker to find out if the patient or victim is after alcohol. There are law enforcement officers to do that," he said.

Kumarasinghe said the ACHSU would resort to trade union action if the Ministry goes ahead with its plan to charge drunken accident victims the cost of their treatment.

The Health Ministry will levy a fee of two thousand rupees as treatment charges from those who meet with accidents due to alcohol consumption from the beginning of next month. Health Ministry sources have said that this was only a preliminary amount and that it may increase following consultations with the Attorney General on the possibilities of charging them the entire cost of their treatment.

President of the Health Services Trade Union Alliance Ravi Kumudesh said it was a good move by the Health Ministry under its alcohol prevention programme. "The public generally see alcohol as a part of the political culture. But Health Minister Mithripala Sirisena has been able to prove otherwise with this decision. Sri Lankans think positively of the alcoholic culture. The Government should endeavor to wipe out that impression from their minds, he said.

"However as health professionals we have to carry out our duty towards all patients and ensure their safety and save them from life threatening situations." Citing an example, he said it was like treating patients with sexually transmitted diseases. We don't condone their way of life but that does not mean that we can neglect or shun their medical requirement," he said.

Independent medical sources however said they saw it as yet another erroneous move by the Health Ministry. The Ministry should take steps to discuss the issue with all stakeholders and prepare the ground work before executing such scheme, they said. The blood test for alcohol alone is expensive. What is normally done is that you smell the victim's breathe. However, even this is not fool proof as some types of liquor don't let out a smell.

On the other hand, the victim may be a patient with some illness in which he has to take medicine which has certain amount of alcohol in it, such as a cough syrup or an Ayurvedic Arishta, they said.

Sources urged the Ministry to discuss the issue further before implementing the circular next month.





GMOA says...

January 27, 2011, 12:00 pm

Apropos our front-page story captioned "Irked over unsolved issue — Nat. hospital docs threaten break away from GMOA", the GMOA Executive Committee has sent us the following statement: The news article appearing on page one of 'The Island' Newspaper of 21st January 2011 is misleading and far from the truth on what transpired at the NHSL meeting held on 12th January 2011.

1. Vote of no confidence against the present Executive Committee was not passed.

2. No resolution was passed for the NHSL branch membership to resign from the GMOA nor a decision taken to form a breakaway group or to function as an independent group.

GMOA Executive Committee is pursuing matters, that were mentioned in the news item, with relevant authorities and is hopeful of resolution of those problems to the satisfaction of the membership.

GMOA would like to further clarify that, only the Secretary or the member of the Media Committee of the GMOA is authorized to issue statements on behalf the GMOA. Newspapers should also act with responsibility to clarify matters from the Honorary Secretary and not from unauthorized self appointed persons acting on behalf of the GMOA.

Reporter's note: Our news item was based on information provided by some of those who had attended the Jan. 12 meet.





President to commission Puttalam coal-fired power plant

January 27, 2011, 10:16 pm

by Ifham Nizam

The first stage of Puttalam Power Plant will generate and add 300 MW to the national grid of the Ceylon Electricity Board from next month, Power and Energy Minister Patali Champika Ranawaka said yesterday.

The first phase of the 900 MW capacity Coal Power plant at Puttalam has been completed. It will be commissioned by President Mahinda Rajapaksa on February 10.

The Puttalam coal power project is among the mega power projects that will produce 600 MWs for the national grid after the completion of two phases.

The total project cost has been estimated at USD 891 million. China is financially assisting the project with Rs. 52,325 million while the Government has allocates Rs. 102,465 million.

The required quantity of coal for running the plant for a few months has already been imported from China. The second phase of the Puttalam Coal Power project is scheduled to commence next month, soon after the first phase is commissioned.

Minister Ranawaka's vision is to achieve a 100 per cent electricity supply and it is progressing smoothly currently at 87 per cent, officials said.





University students to launch protest against suspensions

January 27, 2011, 10:11 pm

by Dasun Edirisinghe

University students, island wide, will launch an all out protest campaign on February 1 demanding the withdrawal of the suspension on 91 students, some of whom have been on suspension for over an year.

Convener of the Inter University Students' Federation (IUSF) Sanjeewa Bandara said students of all 15 State-run universities are opposed to a government move to establisih branches of foreign universities in the country. Minister of Higher Education S. B. Dissanayake has already taken steps to establish such branches, Bandara charged.

"This was the first step towards scrapping the free education system and this is being done to fulfill the promises held out to foreign funding organizations when the government borrowed monies from them," he said.

However, Chairman of the University Grants Commission Professor Gamini Samaranayake dismissed the students' allegations and said the suspensions were effected due to students' misbehaviour, including ragging insubordination and interrupting the academic calendar.

"Some are trying to fulfill their political agendas," Samaranayake said.





Gajasinghe century only bright spot

Under-19 Schools Cricket

January 27, 2011, 10:31 pm

By Reemus Fernando

An unbeaten century in 95 balls inclusive of 13 fours and two sixes by Sri Lanka Under-19 player Kaushalya Gajasinghe was the highlight in the rain-hit Under-19 Inter-school cricket match between Mahinda College and Revata College which ended in a no-decision at Balapitiya yesterday.

The match was affected by rain on both days and in reply to Mahinda College's 278 for five declared, Revata were 69 for five wickets when rain ended play early.

Carey College took control of their match against Taxila College, Horana as they restricted the visitors to 79 for eight wickets at close in reply to their 289 for seven declared on the 1st day of their match began at Malay Ground yesterday.





Ind. candidate injured in clash

January 27, 2011, 9:51 pm

The police say independent candidate Ravindu Lakmini Wijebandara had been wounded in a clash between a group of UPFA supporters led by Deputy Minister Premalaal Gunasekera and several independent candidates on Wednesday (26) night in the Kahawatte police area.

The wounded person had been admitted to the Ratnapura General hospital.

Supporters of the victim had alleged that Deputy Minister Gunasekera fired at them, whereas the UPFA lodged a complaint against supporters of the wounded person.

Sources said that Wijebandara had decided to contest the forthcoming poll as an independent candidate after the UPFA denied him nomination. He is a brother of Nilantha Jayasinghe, a member of the Sabaragamuwa PC.





ICC to commemorate 150th anniversary of Rabindranath Tagore

January 27, 2011, 9:26 pm

To commemorate the 150th anniversary of poet Rabindranath Tagore, the Indian Cultural Centre is planning year long programmes. The programmes will be organized in association with the University of Colombo, University of Kelaniya, University of Sri Jayewardenepura, the Ministry of Culture & Arts. Government of Sri Lanka and the Bangladesh High Commission.

The celebration will be commenced with a series of talks and film screening by Dr. Reba Som. The very first lecture will be delivered at the Library Auditorium, University of Colombo, Reid Avenue, Colombo 07 at 1.00 p.m. on 31st January 2011. The talk is entitled "Musical Journey of Rabindranath Tagore" and this will be followed by a screening of film entitled "The story of Tagore's Gitanjall".

She will also deliver lectures at the University of Kelaniya and the University of Sri Jayewardenepura.

Dr. Reba Som is a scholar on Rabindranath Tagore and a trained singer of Rabindra Sangeet. She is currently the Director of Rabindranath Tagore Centre, ICCR in Kolkata. Her publications include Differences within Consensus. The Left-Right Divide in the Congress 1929-39, (Orient Longman, 995), Gandhi, Nehru and Bose: The Making of the Modern Indian Mind, (Penguin, 2004) and Rabindranath Tagore. The Singer and his Song (Penguin 2009). He compact disc, Selected Songs of Rabindranath Tagore (Saregama 2004) includes her English translations of Tagore's lyrics.





SLBFE gave Rs 8.6 mn in loans to 118 persons

They returned to Sri Lanka after dispute over working hours

January 27, 2011, 9:21 pm

By Jayantha de Silva

The Sri Lanka Bureau of Foreign employment has granted loans to the tune of Rs.8.6 million to 118 persons to assist them to secure employment at the Korean Daewo Corporation in Libya, but, according to Minister of Foreign Employment and Welfare Dilan Perera, they had to return home due to differences with the management over their working hours.

At a recent meeting held in this connection, the Miniser said that certain politicians exploit insignificant issues to sabotage the complex and sensitive foreign employment process through which Sri Lankans earn between Rs.40,000 and 50,000 per month.

He said that no insurance entity awards compensation outside its agreements with policy holders.

He acknowledged that there had been certain shortcomings on the part of some employment agents which contributed to migrant workers facing trouble in foreign countries when they go there for employment.

The Chairman of the Sri Lanka Foreign Employment Kingsley Ranawaka and its General Manager Harischandra Batagoda also addressed the meeting.





CDB pre-tax profits up 938%

January 27, 2011, 7:32 pm

Continued improvements in key performance indicators in the third quarter of 2010 enabled Citizens Development Business Finance Ltd (CDB) to record a noteworthy profit growth for the nine months ended 31 December 2010.

The Company's pre-tax profit has gone up by 938% to record Rs. 331.7 million up from Rs. 31.9 million for the corresponding period last year, while revenue reached Rs. 1492 million projecting a growth of 35% over the corresponding period. CDB's total asset base has grown from mere Rs. 276 million to Rs. 9 billion.

The annual revenue has grown from mere Rs. 25 million to around Rs.2 Bn. Net assets which recorded a negative figure in 2001 have been converted to a positive of Rs. 800 million. From the loss making status in 2001, CDB has continuously recorded growth in profitability since 2004 and posted a net profit figure surpassing Rs.300 million for the first nine months of the current financial year (2010/2011). CDB was recently assigned BBB-/P3 credit rating by RAM Rating (Lanka) Ltd. We are confident in concluding the current financial year (2010/2011) with the same momentum in bottom-line results".

Nnet interest incomegrew by 79% to Rs. 583 million, an increase of Rs. 257 million over the preceding year.

While the overall NPL ratio stood at 4.48% at 31 December 2010. The earnings per share recorded a figure of Rs. 7.83 for the period under review. Mark to market value adjustment of investment in listed shares amounting Rs.114 million also has contributed significantly to the bottom-line results.





"Right now, I can confirm that we will be contesting 24 Municipal, Urban and Village Councils on our own and eleven other local authorities with the government. The final positon will be known only after all our organisers' reports are received."

The Councils being contested under the Tree Symbol include three in the North, 11 in the East and eight outside the North and East, he said.

The alliance with the government, subject to the organisers' reports, are confined to three local authorities in the Kalutara District and eight in the Trincomalee District, he said.





Based on the participants' performance of this event, selected players will be invited to take part in an ITF Team at the ITF 14-&-Under Asian Championships, Group-1, to be held next March. According to a communiqué issued by the SLTA, a maximum of two boys and two girls from one country are permitted to feature in the ITF Team. For this team, the ITF provides two team coaches to travel with the players.

Sri Lanka team for the ITF 14-and-Under Asian Championships Group-2 in Myanmar:





Can SLC keep mum now?

January 27, 2011, 10:33 pm

by Madura Nandana

The Interim Committee of Sri Lanka Cricket (SLC) has always been highlighted by the media for its financial misappropriation, as it was cited by the Auditor General, and the slow-paced preparation of three World Cup venues and also for nepotism.

Thus D. S. de Silva, the head of SLC Interim Committee, since his appointment, has come under severe criticism for reasons best known to him and his co.

Nevertheless, he recently lashed out at the media for their scathing campaign against him and his IC, and said that those media critics were unsubstantiated.

But with the revelation of the ICC that the World Cup venues were incomplete and not ready for the next February event did nothing but to justify the vehement SLC critics of the media.

Though the media for umpteen times highlighted the fact that home venues would only be 'foreign' pitches to the Sri Lanka team, it has now become a reality as the ICC has refrained SLC from holding matches in the World Cup venues citing 'exclusivity period' where no non-event-related activities can take place on the ground 21 days prior to the first tournament match, or 14 days prior to the first warm-up game. This is a huge blow to the SLC who have been craftily survived up to date.

Adding salt to the already bleeding wound, SLC is left with Hobson's choice, to hold the three-match series (earlier a five-match series) between Sri Lanka and the West Indies at the SSC. All three matches will be day affairs and are scheduled to be played on January 31st, February 3rd and 6th.

In fact, this will serve no purpose as the intended home advantage and obtaining a better knowledge on the pitch behaviour ahead of the World Cup have come a cropper.

Undoubtedly, this unexpected blow will beget bad results on Sri Lanka's performance in the ICC flagship event at a time many critics are saying Sri Lanka is one of the best contenders for the title, after a lapse of 15 years.

Therefore, it is time to ask: "Who will hold the responsibility for having lack of preparation for the Sri Lanka side and for depriving them of possible home advantage?"





Protecting biodiversity in Sri Lanka's plantations

* A study carried out at Mattakelle Tea Estate reveals a bounty of flora and fauna, not just commercial crops

January 27, 2011, 7:47 pm

By Ifham Nizam

A recent study at the Mattakelle Tea Estate in the Nuwara Eliya District reveals the existence of a staggering number of fauna and flora species.

Today, Sri Lanka is a major player in the global tea industry and ranks as the third largest tea producer in the world, having an approximate share of 10 percent of the global market, with a production of 317.7 million Kg made tea in 2008, as the Central Bank of Sri Lanka records.

Sri Lanka also ranks as the largest exporter of tea in the world, exporting 298 million Kg or about 22 per cent of the world's exports, with 60 per cent being exported in bulk form and 40 per cent in value added form.

The objectives of the study were to identify the habitats which support animal life in the tea plantation ecosystem, quantify the present status of biodiversity and importance of ecosystems to the threatened fauna in the Mattakelle tea estate.

The outcome of the exercise expects to generate a wealth of information on invertebrates and vertebrates diversity and ecology. The outcome of the exercise will generate a wealth of information on biodiversity and ecology of a selected group of vertebrates and invertebrates.

The information can be of major importance in formulating effective strategies to conserve the agro-ecosystems, to undertake further studies and particularly to understand the beneficial effects of the natural biodiversity to the tea plantation.

The study was conducted by researchers, Rajika Gamage and Dhananjaya Kottawarachchi, both holding responsible posts at the Tea Research Institute.

Speaking exclusively to The Island's Financial Review, Gamage says their objective was to assess the significance of a tea plantation ecosystem in maintaining vertebrates and invertebrates diversity.

Seven different habitats were identified in the ecosystem namely home garden, seasonal stream, small scale reservoir, Eucalyptus forest, wetland, tea field and secondary forest. Fourteen counts were made for each habitat during mornings and evenings.

A total of 134 vertebrates and invertebrates species were recorded. The study reveals the existence of 25 endemic species stated in the International Conservation Union –IUCN Red List- eight critically endangered/endangered species, four vulnerable species and 19 species in near threatened category were recorded.

During the survey, nine species of dragonflies and damselflies, 39 species of butterflies, two species of fresh water fishes, 11 species of amphibians, seven species of reptiles, 61 species of birds and five species of mammals were observed.

The study revealed that each of the habitats provided unique niches and supported maintenance of natural diversity.

Gamage, an expert on butterflies in the country says the vegetation structure and the complexity of the ecosystem in tea plantations play a vital role in sustaining animal diversity.

Nevertheless very important information was gathered; especially a number of observations were made on the threatened and endangered species that included first records of a skink species and unidentified two crab species attesting to the importance of the ecosystem.

Several conservation measures such as increasing plant diversity, introduction of shade trees, conduct of good agricultural practices and prevention from setting fire are recommended to protect and conserve vertebrate diversity.

He says the outcome of the study can be made use for developing of strategies, to conserve the diversity and to make effective and critical decisions to minimize the impact of human activities on the ecosystem.

Rajika thanked the Estate's Manager Gimhan Jayatillake for initiating and encouraging them during the survey. Also they thanked Assistant Managers Indu Senaratne, Sarath Ranaweera for their keen assistance during field work,

The environmental policy reviews the commitment of Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC, in partnership with the plantation and local community to conserve and manage the environment which operates for the benefit and well-being of the present and future generations within the plantations and its neighborhood.

The present management of Mattakelle Tea Estate attempts to do continuous monitoring and implementing environmentally friendly and responsible methods in all agricultural operations, field practices and manufacturing process to ensure all natural resources and ecosystems in a sustainable manner. The estate follows good agricultural practices such as contour drainage systems, planting of green manure, shade belts, establishment of Vetiver grass hedges and stone terraces.

However, illegal felling of forest trees in secondary forests and some catchment areas of water sources and high usage of agrochemicals in agricultural lands were recorded during the study period.

The agro-ecosystems in the estate are dominated by tea (Camellia sinensis) plantation with low shade trees such as Erythrina lithosperma, Calliandra calothrysus and high shade tree Grevillea robusta and Eucalyptus plantations along with a small segment under traditional agriculture managed by the estate community with multi-species of vegetables. Among the tree species, Avocado (Persea americana), Mango (Mangifera indica) and Jak (Artocarpus heterophyllous) have been recorded. Kahakona (Cassia spectabilis), African tulip tree (Spathodea campanulata) and Fern tree (Jacaranda mimosifolia) were found along roadsides as ornamental trees.

Most of the hilly areas and abandoned tea lands have been converted to Eucalyptus plantations for timber and firewood requirements of the estate. The non-forest vegetation types were mostly grasslands and abandoned lands. A small patch of secondary forest situated in a corner of the estate was observed while, Eupatorium inuliformes, Symbopogan confertifloru, were abundant in the margins. Large trees were sparse and among them Syzygium spp. and Calophyllum spp. were the most conspicuous. Symplocos cochinchinensis and unidentified Bamboo species dominated the understory. Newly planted Eucalyptus trees were growing inside the secondary forest.

Sri Lanka has 117 species of dragonflies and damselflies of which 53 are endemic. The high occurrence of endemics makes them an important group in the study of Sri Lankan biodiversity. Dragonflies are often addressed to as the guardians of the watershed. During the Survey, nine species of dragonflies/damselflies were recorded with one endemic species namely Indolestes gracilis gracilis.

Among the invertebrates, 244 species of butterflies have been recorded in Sri Lanka, of which 21 species are endemic. A total of 39 species of butterflies were recorded belonging to 8 families during the study. Those included two endemic species Parantica taprobana Ceylon Tiger and Troides darsius Ceylon Birdwing.

During survey, two species of fresh water fish (Channa orientalis Smooth-breasted snakehead and Xiphophorus helleri Sword tail) were recorded only in wetland habitat.

A small day gecko species was recorded and the genus could be Cnemaspis. Further studies should be required for identification up to species level. Interestingly, recently described endemic skink species (Lankascincus sripadensis) by Mendis Wickramasinghe was recorded during the survey.

The diversity of birds and their distribution with respect to available habitat types show the importance of the Mattakelle as an ideal bird habitat, within the Up Country tea growing area of Sri Lanka. During the study period, a total of 61 species of birds including nine species of endemics and 10 species of migrants were recorded. Among them, one globally threatened and 12 nationally threatened bird species were identified.

The wetland habitat had the lowest bird diversity with 18 species accounting only for 29 per cent of the total avifaunal diversity of the study area, Intermediate Egret, Oriental Skylark and White-Browed Prinia were restricted to such aquatic habitats. Very few birds were observed inside the Eucalyptus forest, where they were sighted either perched on marginal Eucalyptus trees or perched on tree species such as Erythrina lithosperma, Calliandra calothrysus and Grevillea robusta.

Seven bird species (Spotted Dove, Blue-Tailed Bee-Eater, Brown Shrike, Common Myna, Red-Vented Bulbul, Yellow-Billed Babbler and Sri Lanka White-Eye) were recorded in all seven habitats. During the period of survey, Orange-Billed Babbler which is very rare in this area was recorded only once in Eucalyptus forest with a flock of Yellow-Billed Babbler. Two adults of White-Browed Prinia with two juveniles were recorded during the month of March in the wetland habitat. The most encountered bird species was the Sri Lanka White-Eye and observed to flock in large numbers.

There are 91 indigenous mammal species, of which 16 species are endemic to Sri Lanka. During the Survey, five species of mammals were recorded from Mattakelle estate. Wild boar (Sus scrofa), Palm Squirrel (Funambulus palmarum) and Black-naped Hare (Lepus nigricollis) are common mammals in Mattakelle estate.

During the survey, considerable extents of habitat destruction and modification were observed. Most of wetlands and seasonal streams of the site, which were supported to fresh water fishes, amphibians and birds, were converted to agricultural lands.

Setting fire on grasslands in dry season, illegal felling of forest trees in secondary forest and some catchment areas of water sources were some frequent and destructive human activities in the area. It could directly affect the nesting sites of birds and food resources.

He says on the other hand, population of Jungle crows was drastically increased with garbage. During the study period, groups of crows were noted to extensively predate on birds including eggs and juveniles and destroyed nests.

Uncontrolled and excessive usage of agro-chemicals was observed in the agricultural lands. Introducing good agricultural practices and enhancing awareness of harmful effects of excessive agro-chemical usage among the estate community would bring about beneficial changes as well as proper function of ecosystems.

Further, increasing plant diversity with native fruit-bearing plants in home gardens and road sides may supportive to increasing avifaunal diversity. He believes further studies should be targeted on ecology, population dynamics and interaction with human activities of Mattakelle estate.





Brian Lara wants senior players to take the lead

January 27, 2011, 10:29 pm

by Angshuman Deb Barma

The West Indies may not be one of the favourites to win the World Cup, but Brian Charles Lara believes that if seniors in the team stand up and take responsibility, then the Caribbean side could turn out to be the surprise package of the tournament.

"This West Indian team is not great in experience, especially in Indian conditions. But we do have some key players in (Shivnarine) Chanderpaul, (Chris) Gayle, (Dwayne) Bravo. The senior players, (Ramnaresh) Sarwan as well, need to ensure that they play a very important part," said Lara, who was in Bangalore to conduct a cricket clinic recently.

"If the team is going to win, it's not going to be one or two players. It's very, very important that the senior players take the lead," he added.

Lara said he was happy to see Sarwan earning a World Cup recall. "Having Sarwan in a cricket team is always going to be an asset. The capability, the talent is there. As long as he is mentally focused, I believe that he is going to be an asset. I'm quite happy to see him in the squad," the legendary batsman, who holds the record for the highest individual score in Tests as well as first-class cricket, said during an interaction.

Lara seemed to be less worried about the fact that the team will be led by Darren Sammy in a big tournament like the World Cup.

"He's just started. Obviously a captain is as good as his team. He's a bit inexperienced but it does not mean he can't do well. As long as he gets support from the entire team, he can give a good account of himself," Lara said.

For Lara, the 1996 World Cup in the sub-continent will always remain special. "In my time, we've only reached the semifinal once (in 1996). The quarterfinal against South Africa in Pakistan was, for me, a special moment. South Africa hadn't lost a match in the tournament and we were able to get on top of them and win the match," recalled Lara, who scored a brilliant century in Karachi.

Lara reiterated that hosts India look favourites to win the tournament. "It's a very strong team — a very good T20 team, 50-over team, Test team. They would start as my favourites. It's not going to be one or two players that win the World Cup. Obviously, Tendulkar and these guys are going to stand up and play an important role but the team is a very good all-round team," he said.

But at the same time he also had a word of caution for Dhoni and his boys. "But India is going to suffer like every other home country from that pressure of playing at home," he concluded.





Oil prices held above $87 a barrel after big gains the previous day when President Barack Obama outlined plans to boost the U.S. economy. In currencies, the dollar was lower against the yen and the euro.

Japan's Nikkei 225 stock average climbed 0.7 percent to 10,476.31after the Finance Ministry announced that export growth had accelerated for the second straight month in December, indicating a revival of overseas demand. Exports from the world's third-largest economy rose 13 percent from a year earlier. North American demand was especially strong, indicating an improvement in the U.S. economy.

Investors have been nervously anticipating China's likely next step to tamp down inflation - namely a hike in interest rates ahead of the Lunar New Year holiday next week.

China's leaders, mindful of the political turmoil brought on by previous bouts of inflation, have declared curbing price increases a top priority. They have hiked interest rates twice in the past four months and repeatedly tightened investment curbs to keep inflation from spreading throughout the economy. Expectations of more hikes have kept Asian markets largely in check.

But Yougesh Khatri, senior economist covering Southeast Asia for Nomura in Singapore, said recent measures by the Chinese government to cool the property market, including restrictions on mortgages and residential purchases, "might ease expectations as to how rapidly rates will be increased."

For example, China's commercial capital of Shanghai announced last week it plans to impose a limited property tax to help curb surging prices. The city has also tightened restrictions, limiting families to buying just one new home, freezing mortgages on third-home purchases and raising required downpayments and interest rates charged for second homes.

The gains in Asia came after the Dow Jones industrial average briefly broke through the 12,000 mark on Wednesday, with investors cheering President Barack Obama's plan to close corporate tax loopholes and use the additional revenue to lower tax rates on businesses for the first time in 25 years.

The Dow slipped lower in afternoon trading to close at 11,985.44 Wednesday, up 0.1 percent from a day earlier. In currencies, the dollar fell to 82.15 yen in Tokyo from 82.19 yen in New York late Wednesday. The euro rose to $1.3701 from $1.3687 in late trading Wednesday.

Benchmark crude for March delivery was down 9 cents at $87.24 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract rose $1.14 to settle at $87.33 a barrel on Wednesday.





World Cup squad and omission of Vass

January 27, 2011, 8:08 pm

Sri Lanka Cricket selectors who picked the players for the on-coming Cricket World Cup tournament have done a good job. However, the omission of Vass from the final 15 members cannot be approved of. It is true that we have a good pace attack in the trio—Lasith Malinga, Nuwan Kulasekera and Thisara Perera. All rounder Angelo Mathews could be used as a part time pace bowler. Nevertheless, Chaminda Vass should have been included in the squad because of his noteworthy performance in the recent county matches in England. The Sri Lankan selectors should not have overlooked the fact that he was the best fast bowler Sri Lanka has ever produced. Vass should have been preferred to Dilhara Fernando , in my estimate .Unbiased cricket fans ,no doubt, will endorse my candid opinion.





Govt. to lift bar on Lankans seeking jobs in Iraq

January 27, 2011, 9:24 pm

Sri Lanka has decided to lift the ban on its citizens seeking employment in Iraq in view of the improving security situation in that country. The ban will be lifted on February 1, Chairman of the Foreign Employment Bureau Kingsley Ranawaka said.

After a close study of the situation prevailing in Iraq, Foreign Employment and Welfare Minister Dilan Perera had decided to lift the ban, Ranawaka said.

From February all registered foreign employment agencies would be gradually permitted to recruit workers to be employed in Iraq.

There are thousands of vacancies in that country especially in the construction industry and attractive salaries were being offered, Ranawaka said.

Meanwhile, even before the government lifted the ban, nearly one thousand Sri Lankans had been employed in Iraq, in the immediate aftermath of the war, mainly in American bases. According to some Foreign Employment agencies they had first reached Dubai, where they were recruited by agencies that worked for

American interests in Iraq and sent to that country.

Some Sri Lankans who returned home from Iraq said they had been well paid and their safety had never been a matter of concern to them. Whenever they reached an Iraqi airport from a Middle Eastern country, American military provided them transport, mainly by helicopter to reach the American bases which had employed them. The same security was provided on their return journey. They also said they had been paid, around Rs. 400,000 per month, for clerical workers in addition to food and medical facilities and were allowed to return home for a month's holiday, once in six months.





Displaced Northern Muslims choose to settle down in Puttalam District

January 27, 2011, 9:53 pm

by Pabodha Hettige

The war displaced Northern Muslims have expressed their willingness to settle down in Puttalam, which has been their home for about two decades, Secretary of the Ministry for Resettlement B. M. U. D Basnayaka says.

"A housing project, fully funded by the World Bank, is already under construction to provide permanent housing to the Northern Muslims," he said.

It had been planned to build 6,000 houses and already 4,000 had been completed, the Basnayake said. Another 1,000 houses were under construction and out of those, 500 would be given to the host families with whom the war displaced were currently staying.

The initiative to provide 500 houses to the host families had been taken by the ministry considering their living conditions, Basnayake said.

The project has been estimated at Rs. 2,000 million. The money allocated per house was Rs. 325,000. The project was due to be completed by the end of 2011, he said.

Responding to a query, he said that only two out of the eight IDP camps functioned in the North and so far 252,000 internally displaced people had been resettled.

"Nearly 19,000 internally displaced people are accommodated at Manik Farm and the Ministry is planning to resettle them as soon as the de-mining process is completed in Mulaitivu and Pudukudirippu areas," Basnayake said adding that nearly 60 per cent of land area remained to be cleared.

The government has started distributing cement, agricultural equipment and other essential items among the IDPs.





No decrease in milk food prices – Johnston

There would be no decrease in the retail price of powdered milk, just because import duty has been reduced, the government said yesterday.

Trade Minister Johnston Fernando told The Island that the duty on the import of a kilogram of milk powder had been brought down, from Rs. 50 to Rs. 28, as a compromise measure following 14 demands made by the industry for a price hike.

The compromise solution was arrived at following last weeks meeting with milk food importers which was chaired by President Mahinda Rajapksa, he said.

Asked if there would no relief for the consumer by way a price reduction, Fernando said that was not possible, because world market prices had gone up.

He said that a metric tonne of milk powder had risen from from US$ 3,500 to US$ 3800.

Sri Lanka's annual milk powder consumption was in the region of 64,000 tonnes but only 8,000 of that quantity was produced locally, Fernando said.

Questioned about the steep rise in the price of small and big red onions, he said that it was due to the adverse impact of natural disasters, which have become a global phenomenon.

When pointed out that the harvesting of onions, in Sri Lanka, had taken place before the recent wet weather had set in, Fernando claimed that it was not correct.

"We will continue to import small and big red onions from Pakistan, to maintain price stablity."









Floating library 'Logos Hope' to call on Sri Lanka

January 27, 2011, 7:28 pm

By Harischandra Gunaratna

The world's largest floating book fair, Logos Hope, will arrive at the Colombo Port on March 18 and will be in the country till April 03. The exhibition will be open to the public from March 19 – April 03. The ship will exhibit half a million books and will have a wide selection with 7,000 different titles ranging from education, technology, history, philosophy, art, cookery and fiction to a selection of children's books as well.

The ship will be in the dry docks for necessary repairs and will leave for Tuticorin on May 10 and will return to Galle on June 30 and continue the exhibition till July 18.

In an interview with The Island Financial Review at its host hotel, The Global Towers, Wellawatte, the Project Director of the ship for the Sri Lankan visit Lenhert Plaatjies of Namibia said, "Our mission is to express mercy in a tangible manner and give hope to millions of people around the world and thus we want to show the different nations that it is possible for us to live together and bring unity through diversity."

He said that the crew of the floating book fair consists of people from more than 50 different nationalities and this is the binding factor.

"Thirty percent of its total income is generated from the sale of books while the balance is pocketed-out by us," Plaatjies explained.

All those serving the book fair numbering about 400 are volunteers on a two year contract and our focus is on knowledge and we want to help the needy communities where ever we go, he said.

We provide relief aid to underdeveloped communities joining hands with the local NGOs and government institutions.

"We will be providing free books to these communities as well as educational institutions and set up libraries in such places," Plaatjies added.

The books could be purchased at affordable prices he said adding that the floating book fair is operated by a German based organization, GBA ships.

These books are provided to us by the suppliers at a very low cost.

We will be recruiting staff for the ship from Sri Lanka as well, he said.

To meet our expenses on board during the two years we are required to raise money within our own communities, he said.

Plaatjies said that the dawn of Peace in the country augurs well for the economic development as well as tourism and was confident that those visiting Sri Lanka on board "Logos Hope" will carry the message that it is a safe place to visit.





Unemployed to get unproductive tea plantation land

* Govt gives investors until June to utilize unproductive land

January 27, 2011, 7:22 pm

By Don Asoka Wijewardena

Plantation and Human Rights Minister Mahinda Samarasinghe yesterday said that on the directive of President Mahinda Rajapaksa all unproductive tea land would be distributed to unemployed people if investors failed to use them for cultivation purposes.

The investors have been given a deadline up to June 2011, he told a media conference held at the ministry auditorium yesterday (27).

Minister Samarasinghe said that tea small holders produced 291 million kilograms of tea in 2009 and in 2010 the production was 329.38 million kilograms.

He pointed out that drinking tea had several health benefits and world renowned scientists had scientifically substantiated that tea could prevent heart complications and strokes because tea leaves contained anti-oxidants.

Minister Samarasinghe added that the Plantation Ministry was in the process of introducing quality Ceylon tea to the market because people believe they were unable to buy quality tea from the market, as quality teas were reserved for export.

He also said the ministry was in the process of conducting an experiment to cultivate rubber in Kilinochchi, Vavuniya and Mullaitive as several foreign countries had shown a willingness to buy natural rubber from Sri Lanka. Exporting quality rubber was a lucrative market in view of the high prices natural rubber now fetch in world markets.





Printcare PLC profits triple on strong export earnings

January 27, 2011, 7:31 pm

Sri Lanka's global player in the printing and packaging industry, Printcare PLC, increased its Group Profit before Tax to Rs. 203.5 million for the nine months ended December 31st 2010, from Rs. 73.1 million for the same period a year ago, an increase of 178%.

Turnover increased by 20% to Rs. 2.6 billion in 2010 compared to Rs. 2.1 billion in the corresponding 9 month period in 2009. Sales were mainly driven by increased export turnover. This growth, combined with the Group's increase in market share in many of its segments, have helped triple Group Profit After Tax to Rs. 160.9 million for the nine months ending December 31st from Rs. 51.9 million for the same period a year ago.

"We see new growth opportunities, not just in our core business area and but also in adjacent segments. The new investments we are making in machinery over the next few months will bring cutting edge technology to the country and will ensure that we will continue to give our export and local customers a competitive advantage in their packaging. It will also continue to position Printcare as one of the leading providers of printing and packaging in the South Asian region." stated K.R. Ravindran, the Managing Director.





JKH profits up on strong performance across all sectors

January 27, 2011, 12:00 pm

Sri Lanka's top blue chip company, John Keells Holdings PLC (JKH), the number one in terms of market capitalisation on the Colombo Stock Exchange (Rs. 183.8 billion at 7.39 percent of total market cap) has recorded a Rs. 2.02 billion after tax profit for the quarter ended December 31, 2010, up 63 percent from Rs. 1.24 billion a year ago. Profits attributable to equity holders grew 54 percent to Rs. 1.75 billion while minority interests grew 163 percent to Rs. 269.6 million.

Interim results announced by JKH for the quarter ended December 31, 2010 showed group revenues grew by 22 percent to Rs. 15.61 billion.

Over the nine month period its transportation segment recorded profits before tax (PBT) amounting to Rs. 1.97 billion, a 18 percent increase from a year ago. "The airlines and logistics business, in particular, performed above the corresponding period in the previous year," Ratnayake said.

Leisure grew by 501 percent with a PBT of Rs. 955 million.

Property development recorded a PBT of Rs. 512 million, up 194 percent from the corresponding nine month period of the previous year.

"We have seen positive interest from potential buyers for the 'OnThree20', the 475 apartment development, situated in Union Place and launched in October 2010, with initial bookings for over 70 percent of the apartments, the construction of which will commence in May 2011," Ratnayake said.

JKH consumer foods and retail segment recorded a PBT of Rs. 463 million, an increase of 175 percent. Ratnayake said its own branded cola drink 'Kik' showed encouraging initial results.

John Keells Stockbrokers, Union Assurance and Nations Trust Bank contributed to PBT of the financial service segment of JKH. PBT from this segment increased 65 percent to Rs. 1.21 billion for the nine months ended December 31, 2010.

The JKH IT segment recorded a PBT of Rs. 49 million, compared to a loss of Rs. 31 million the previous year.

A segment comprising Plantation Services, John Keells Capital and the Corporate Centre recorded a PBT of Rs. 2.17 billion, 334 percent higher than the previous year.

Ratnayake said a BPO based in Seenigama was progressing well with the revenues earned by four local operators increasing by 45 percent in November 2010.





GNs want 670 earth slip prone areas checked out

Grama Niladhari's of 670 identified landslide prone areas in Kandy have requested the National Building Research Organization to carry out investigations to ascertain the risk factors involved, Senior Geologist, Landslide Studies and Service Division, NBRO, M. I. D. H. Wijewickrama said.

There are nearly 1,200 identified landslide prone areas in the Kandy District. According to Wijewickrama about one per cent of those areas require immediate relocation of people whereas in the other areas the risk could be minimized through mitigation.

"Punchi Raththota and Monerangala, in Thalatu Oya, require relocation. There are 24 and 25 families living in these areas respectively," he said. A sociological study will be carried out in the areas where these families are going to be relocated, once the areas for relocations are decided by the Divisional Secretariats.

Responding to a query, Wijewickrama said that evacuation is decided depending on whether the areas are rural or urban. "Even though an urban area is identified as a high risk zone, evacuation is not economically feasible, therefore hazards are minimized through mitigation methods, whereas in rural areas relocation is comparatively easy," he said.

Apart from the areas identified in the Kandy district, certain areas in Badulla, Nuwara Eliya, Matale, Patha Dumbara and Meda Dumbara are prone to landslides.

Guidelines have been set for the construction of buildings in landslide prone areas, but they are hardly followed.

Therefore, Minister of Disaster Management Mahinda Amaraweera has taken the initiative to issue a gazette notification to Pradeshiya Sabhas, to get the approval of the NBRO before any construction is carried out, Wijewickrama said.





Neil's role in bringing World Cup to sub-continent

January 27, 2011, 10:42 pm

Part 23

by Rex Clementine

Jagmohan Dalmiya, the Indian Board secretary paid a glowing tribute to Perera's contributions towards bringing the 1996 World Cup to the sub-continent when he said; "I would like to thank you for all the hard work that you did in the last few months to make the joint bid of Pakistan, India and Sri Lanka successful. In fact, without your crucial role at the ICC meeting in London on February 2, 1993, the 'cake' perhaps would not have come to this sub-continent. At the meeting, we observed how you intervened on time and presented your opinion forcefully, even in the face of strong opposition from the other side. And the success of the joint bid owes a lot to your hard work and efficiency," Dalmiya went onto add in the letter.

Leading up to the Cricket World Cup, more than Kumar Sangakkaras and Mahela Jayawardenes, it's the cricket officials who take the limelight in the back pages of newspapers and primetime television slots. They speak as if the World Cup in Sri Lanka wouldn't have happened if not for them. Small minds in big places.

In today's 'Memorable World Cup Moments' we recall the efforts of an unsung hero of Sri Lankan cricket, the man who was largely instrumental in bringing the 1996 Cricket World Cup to the sub-continent.

Neil Perera, a former Secretary of the Board of Control for Cricket in Sri Lanka (BCCSL), intervened at the right time by bringing India and Pakistan together for a joint-bid by the sub-continent and if not for his timely action, the 1996 World Cup would have been either staged in South Africa or England.

Perera, now 81-years-old, was a member of the Executive Committee of BCCSL for over 25 years and held the position of Secretary for a significant period. In an age where the current Cricket Interim Committee Secretary's assets are being probed, Perera paid his office typist out of his own pocket to attend to the documentation of the Cricket Board.

The difference between now and then is that 25 years ago, cricket remained a sport and now it has become a business.

As documental evidence goes onto prove, the 1996 World Cup wouldn't have taken place in the sub-continent if not for this humble Sri Lankan and this fact is acknowledged by none other than Jagmohan Dalmiya, the Secretary of the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) at that time and later the Chairman of International Cricket Council.

"The idea of staging the Cricket World Cup tournament in the Indian sub-continent, including Sri Lanka, had been germinating within me ever since I took office as the Hon. Secretary of BCCSL in Sri Lanka in July 1991. It was a dream of mine," Neil Perera told 'The Island' when we met him at his Nugegoda residence.

"Around January 1992, I put this idea across to the then President of BCCSL Tyronne Fernando and after some discussions we decided to obtain the blessings of President Premadasa, as this was an historic event of great national significance and also due to the fact that we were not aware at that stage what the financial implications would be," Perera added.

"President Premadasa not only gave his blessings for staging the event, but also promised financial assistance if it became necessary."

Perera's next task was to contact cricket officials of India and Pakistan to get the ball rolling. But there was a problem. "I contacted both the Hon. Secretary of India and Pakistan without further delay and followed up by confirming this proposal in writing. The Indian cricket board responded positively within a few weeks, but the Pakistani Board was dragging its feet. After a certain amount of delay, they informed me that Pakistan had an idea of staging the tournament by themselves."

The response of Pakistan was a bitter blow to Perera, but he was still iron-willed.

However, it all returned to square one when the Sri Lankan government was approached by Nelson Mandela, just released from prison, who requested the Sri Lankan government to support South Africa's bid to host the World Cup. Such was Mandela's popularity at that juncture, the government couldn't say no.

"I continued to push my proposal with Pakistan, informing them that they would not be able to muster 2/3 of the votes of the full members for their bid at the ICC meeting, which was a prerequisite for a successful bid. But just a few days prior to the crucial ICC meeting at Lord's in February 1993, Nelson Mandela had contacted our government and had requested our support for South African to stage the World Cup in 1996," Perera recalled.

"We were officially told by the government that we should support South Africa. Finally, it was agreed that Sri Lanka would support South Africa if our joint effort with India and Pakistan did not materialise."

Perera attended that ICC meeting at Lord's in February 1993 where it was going to be decided who would host the next Cricket World Cup.

Although he tried desperately, there was no positive response from Pakistan. But perseverance is a great virtue.

"The ICC meeting was presided over by the late Sir Colin Cowdrey and I tried hard to convince General Zahid Akbar Khan, the Chairman of Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB). But he insisted on bidding alone. Then England, South Africa and Pakistan forwarded their bids. Out of the nine votes of the full members, England got four, South Africa also got four, but Pakistan just one. I voted for South Africa going by what the government had told us as the joint bid didn't come through. The meeting was adjourned to resolve this problem. I tried to again convince the Pakistan chairman, but he was furious that we voted against them. Then I approached the secretary of PCB and asked him to tell his chairman that we would not make any progress fighting alone and that he had no option but to support the joint bid. About half-an-hour later, General Khan had cooled down and I was informed that we would go ahead with the joint bid."

Perera then informed the South African officials that the sub-continent was going to put up a joint bid and that they will not get Sri Lanka's support. He was able to convince South Africa not only to step down, but to support the joint bid as well. But still, there was England to be conquered.

"When the meeting was summoned, we put forward our bid and England continued with theirs. Then a vote was taken and we received five votes while England got four votes. The meeting again ended in a deadlock and was suspended till a solution was found (hosts needed to have the support of 2/3 of ICC).

Although the meeting had ended in a deadlock again, Perera by now realised that he had pulled off the greatest heist in Sri Lankan cricket history. He knew the World Cup was coming to the sub-continent as the force when India and Pakistan join hands is greater than any other in world cricket.

"Still discussions were going on for a couple of hours behind close doors. Finally a compromise was reached," Perera said. "England agreed to back out of this contest if they could stage the 1999 World Cup. I was over the moon when I heard this," he reminisced. "South Africa not to be outdone, indicated that they would agree to this suggestion provided they are given the hosting rights of the 2003 World Cup. That was agreed too. The meeting that started at 10:00 am went on till 8:00pm and this was perhaps one of the longest meetings of the ICC."

Jagmohan Dalmiya, the Indian Board secretary who later was appointed head of the organising committee of the 1996 World Cup known as PILCOM (Pakistan, India, Lanka Committee), paid a glowing tribute to Perera's contributions in a letter where he said; "I would like to thank you for all the hard work that you did in the last few months to make the joint bid of Pakistan, India and Sri Lanka successful. In fact, without your crucial role at the ICC meeting in London on February 2, 1993, the 'cake' would perhaps have not come to this sub-continent."

"At the meeting, we observed how you intervened on time and placed you opinion forcefully, even in the face of strong opposition from the other side. And the success of the joint bid owes a lot to your hard work and efficiency," Dalmiya went onto add in the letter.





Coach backs Abeyratne for wicket-keeper's role

SL Vs England Under-19 Youth ODIs

January 27, 2011, 10:26 pm

Despite concerns over his frailties behind stumps at the last Youth Test, Sri Lanka Under-19 are likely to continue with D. S. Senanayake College wicket-keeper Lasith Abeyratne for the five-match ODI series against touring England Under-19, which will begin at Colts Ground, Colombo today.

Team coach Naveed Navaz said that in pursue of grooming a future Sri Lanka U-19 wicket-keeper for the Youth World Cup, to be staged in 2012, the selectors would back Abeyratne to keep wickets for Sri Lanka team in the Limited-over series.

"Abeyratne's wicket-keeping was a bit of concern. But we are working with him to get things right," Navaz told 'The Island' yesterday.

Abeyratne is not the only wicket-keeper batsman available in the pool. But Navaz said that his good composure as a batsman would make selectors to pick him ahead of others as there is the need to groom an agile wicket-keeper for the Youth World Cup.

Abeyratne missed several caught-behind opportunities on the last two days of the 2nd Youth Test which ended at P. Sara Stadium on Sunday (Jan. 23). However he was good in the batting department and played a key role in the second innings in the 1st Youth Test ended in Galle last week.

Navaz also said that Duleeka Thissakuttige and Kaushalya Gajasinghe will not play in the Youth ODIs as they were selected only for the Youth Tests. He said former Maris Stella College player Angelo Jayasinghe, Royal College batsman Ramith Rambukwella and Trinity College opener Niroshan Dikwella are the likely candidates to fill the vacancies created by their exit.

Although Niroshan Dikwella too is a wicket-keeper bat, he could come in as a batting opener for the home team.





Let's show People Power

January 27, 2011, 8:10 pm

Reference Durand Appuhamy's letter on advertising during the world cup series I recall how a colleague of mine reacted to canvassing at a residential hall elections in the university some years back ..In bold letters he put up a notice on his door

" If you come to canvass my vote I will vo for your opponent" Similarly TV viewers can say "If you advertise during the matches we will not buy your product"





Navy rescues two turtles from captivity

January 27, 2011, 10:15 pm

The lives of two precious sea turtles were saved by the Navy on January 19, 2011 at Kalpitiya.

The rescue by Navy personnel was carried out on the instructions of Commander North-Western Naval Area Rear Admiral Ruwan Dias, who spotted them entangled in a fishing net in the seas, 02 nautical miles off Kudiramalai.

He was on an official visit on a Naval vessel when he spotted the turtles gasping for life in a trap laid by unscrupulous elements who had no care for the innocent sea species, which is threatened with extinction by unlawful human actions.

Touched by the struggle made by the captive turtles to free themselves, Naval personnel took them on board and brought them ashore to free them from their "imprisonment" after inspection for any injuries.

The Area Commander then directed the Commanding Officer SLNS Vijaya in Kalpitiya Commodore SMDK Samaraweera to set them fee at sea.

The turtles were safely taken to the mid-sea onboard a Naval Inshore Patrol Craft (IPC) and put to sea at a location 04 nautical miles off Uchchimunai.





Pakistan provides flood relief worth Rs.11.2 million

January 27, 2011, 9:25 pm

In the aftermath of the devastating floods in Sri Lanka, Pakistan has sent much needed humanitarian assistance worth over Sri Lanka Rupees 11.2 Million (US $ 100,000) for the flood affectees. The emergency relief items includes tents and blankets which will be distributed to the affectees through the Sri Lankan government.

These items have been sent following an appeal made by the Pakistani mission in Colombo on the request of the Sri Lankan Government. Flooding has left at least 40 people dead and more than one million people displaced in the north, east and central parts of the country in recent days.

The Plane carrying the relief material arrived at the Katunayake International Airport on Wednesday. "Pakistan has always stood by Sri Lanka in the hour of distress in the past and will do so in the future as well",a spokesman for the Pakistan High Commission said.

"The civilizational links between Pakistan and Sri Lanka date back to the dawn of Buddhism. Since the establishment of diplomatic relations between Pakistan and Sri Lanka in 1948, the two countries have consistently maintained close, cordial and mutually supportive relationship. The two countries, upholding their friendship and brotherhood, have been helpful to each other during difficult times.

Pakistan and Sri Lanka being located in the South Asian region and being members of various regional and international bodies like UN, commonwealth, NAM and SAARC are mutually important for each others. The relationship between Pakistan and Sri Lanka is based on mutual trust and commonality of interest in maintaining regional peace, security and stability. Pakistan has always supported the unity, territorial integrity and sovereignty of Sri Lanka.

Both countries have shared common perceptions on almost all regional and international issue and are working together on all these forums for shared values and interests.

Although Pakistan itself has suffered from the devastating floods which had affected over 20 million people and damaged huge swathe of crops, yet in this hour of need the people and the government of Pakistan have not hesitated to help their Sri Lankan brethren",the spokesman added.





Thrift and restraint in Sri Lanka's counter terrorism effort

* Economic interventions used to put pressure on Sri Lanka

January 27, 2011, 10:09 pm

Central Bank Governor Ajith Nivard Cabraal told the Lessons Learnt and Reconciliation Commission that contrary to popular belief Sri Lanka's defense budget, as a percentage of GDP, was much lower to most countries.

"Contrary to popular belief, Sri Lanka has expended just about 4 percent of its GDP on defense over the 4 years, 2006 to 2009. For a country that has been plagued by terrorism, this quantum of government spending on defense, indicates restraint and thrift in waging the counter terrorism effort. The final results where Sri Lanka emerged as the first country to defeat terrorism, shows that Sri Lanka has been able to expend its resources in an efficient and productive manner," Cabraal said.

"For four years between 2006 and 2009, the cost incurred by Sri Lanka on the LTTE war was US$ 5.5 billion. This included cost of aircrafts, ships, tanks, ammunition, other equipment, training, food for soldiers, uniforms, etc. In contrast, the cost incurred by the US government on training of their forces in Iraq and Afghanistan amounted to US$ 39 billion. About 700 percent more than Sri Lanka's cost." He said.

Cabraal said the investment in fighting terrorism has paid off and the economy was seeing growth across all sectors of the economy with economic growth estimated at 8 percent in 2010 and 8.5 percent this year.

He pointed out that international forces had tried to make it difficult for Sri Lanka to finally defeat terrorism.

"Many so called economic interventions seemed to be attempts to indirectly pressure Sri Lanka to halt or dilute the final humanitarian effort, such as the threat of withdrawing GSP Plus trade concessions at a sensitive time and the delay in approval of the US$ 2.6 billion IMF standby arrangement," Cabraal said.

Every perceived negative factor from an economic point of view was given deliberate and wide publicity both locally and internationally. Hence, a massive effort had to be launched and maintained to convey the positive features of the economy. Even in the future, these efforts have to be continued, in the interest of economic stability," Cabraal said.

Despite the negative sentiments, Sri Lanka had several successes Cabraal pointed out: "Several international bond issues were oversubscribed. There was no fall-out from the withdrawal of GSP Plus. Our ratings were maintained and recently upgraded. Investor sentiment was maintained even in the most difficult of times and the war risk premiums was removed and travel advisories relaxed."

Once the conflict ended, several steps were taken to restore normalcy and livelihoods in the once war torn regions.

"Many vocational training centres have been established and restrictions on fishing have been removed. A large number of new bank branches have been established and existing ones in North and East have been re-established. Thousands of cattle, goats and poultry have been distributed to households. Around 8,912 boats, 6,139 motors and 94,967 nets have been distributed," Cabraal said.

"The Central Bank has started several new credit lines and added to the existing schemes in the North and the East. These schemes have provided extensive access to finance which has greatly assisted the people of these two Provinces to practice their livelihoods," he said.





Henin retires from tennis due to elbow injury

January 27, 2011, 10:28 pm

Former world No 1 Justine Henin has retired for the second time after she was forced to admit defeat in her attempt to beat a chronic elbow problem.

The Belgian, 28, who first quit in May 2008 only to rediscover her appetite for tennis and return last year, calls time on her career after a disappointing third-round defeat by Svetlana Kuznetsova in the Australian Open.

Henin has quit on medical advice relating to an injury that had prevented her from playing any competitive tennis for the latter half of last year. She had admitted at the Hopman Cup prior to this month's tournament in Melbourne that she was still struggling for fitness.

"I have unfortunately not good news," Henin said. "I spent the last days undergoing various medical tests and they have confirmed that my elbow has been damaged by my adventure in Australia.

"Having considered the advice of doctors, it is now clear that my career finally ends here, even though it's hard, very hard. I came back with a tremendous fighting spirit."

Henin quit two years ago having won seven grand-slam singles titles, including four French Open titles, one Australian Open and two US Opens. She said then that she simply wanted to step back from the professional game, having spent 100 weeks as world No 1.

She returned at the Brisbane International tournament at the start of last year and went on to reach the Australian Open final. She was seeded 11th for this year's staging of the grand-slam event but was eliminated last week after a straight-sets defeat by the 23rd seed from Russia.

Relatively slender at 5ft 5in and 9st, Henin delighted fans with a one-handed style that relied more on touch and guile than power. Bille Jean King said that Henin was "pound for pound, the best player of her generation". She could more than hold her own from the baseline, too, exploiting what John McEnroe called the best backhand in tennis.

Having put behind her issues that included a failed marriage and a difficult relationship with her father, from whom she was estranged for years, Henin was widely welcomed back to the tour last year. Stacey Allaster, chief executive of the Women's Tennis Association, was quick to praise her contribution to the sport.

"Justine Henin will go down as one of the greatest female athletes of her era," Allaster said in a statement. "She has been an incredible ambassador for women's tennis on and off the court, and her fighting spirit, tremendous courage and ultimate success has captured the minds and hearts of millions of fans.

"We have all been fortunate to have had the opportunity to witness the beauty of her game and we will miss seeing her on court competing like only Justine can."





SL tour will help in acclimatisation - Gibson

January 27, 2011, 10:36 pm

West Indies coach Ottis Gibson has said his team's upcoming tour of Sri Lanka will help the players acclimatise to the conditions for the World Cup that is being played in the subcontinent. West Indies play three ODIs against Sri Lanka at the SSC in Colombo, but while their World Cup warm-up games will also be played in Sri Lanka, they play their group games in India and Bangladesh.

"It is a good opportunity to put some of the plans in place that we are going to take into the World Cup," Gibson said. "When we went for the Test series we did really well as a team and we made progress. We also had a chance to get used to the conditions. The players are fresh out of the Caribbean Twenty20 and are ready for what we have coming up."

West Indies are part of Group B in the World Cup along with South Africa, Netherlands, India, Bangladesh, England and Ireland, and Gibson was positive about his team's chances in the tournament.

"I think we have a team that can win the World Cup," he said. "We will go there with the expectation of doing very well and putting ourselves in a position where we can reach the semi-finals, which is a very realistic possibility. We are not listed among the favourites and that could work in our favour."

The three-Test series between West Indies and Sri Lanka last December ended in a rain-marred 0-0 draw. That series was to be followed by the one-dayers, but they were rescheduled due to bad weather. The first ODI will be played at the SSC on January 31.





Italian flood-aid here today

January 27, 2011, 9:28 pm

Sri Lanka will receive a consignment of flood-relief items from Italy today (28). A spokesperson for the Italian Embassy in Colombo told The Island that Italian Foreign Minister Franco Frattni had directed the Development Co-operation Head Office to send an emergency humanitarian flight to Colombo. The Embassy said that the operation would cost Italy 340,000 Euro.





Specially targeted SL community

'Ponzi' Millionaire Gang, including Lankans sentenced

January 27, 2011, 9:27 pm

An international gang of fraudsters made £10million from targeting a series of victims, it can be revealed today.

The six men were convicted of deception and money laundering offences at earlier hearings for their involvement in a 'Ponzi' fraud which affected a number of different communities across London, but specifically targeted members of the Sri Lankan community.

The court heard how the Metropolitan Police Service Fraud Squad launched an investigation back in 2005 after they received reports from victims who had been duped out of huge sums of money, often their life savings.

The ringleader of the International fraud was Vibhawa Fonseka, who used his family name, which was highly reputable among the Sri Lankan community, to convince people to put money into investments that he promised would make a huge profit. He would then provide documents and contracts to back up the investments and would even pay some interest to the investors to prolong the fraud, attract other investors and squeeze even more money out of his victims over a long period of time.

The money he made was used to fund a luxurious lifestyle. He owned a £1.6 million mansion, designer clothes and jewellery and travelled extensively.

Three others, John Francis Napoli, John Abraham James and Mushtaq Ahmed, were responsible for creating a network of bank accounts in which to launder the proceeds of their crimes - a lot of the funds were laundered abroad. Police believe that they made about £10million over a period of five years and duped about 100 victims into handing over their hard-earned cash.

The remaining two men, Samantha Koralage, 38, of Kingsbury, London and Upul De Zoysa, 60, of Ickenham, Middlesex, pleaded guilty to unauthorised deposit taking on 28 September 2010. They are due to be sentenced on Friday 28 February.

Detective Chief Inspector Robin Cross, head of the MPS Fraud Squad, said: "This scam has been devastating for victims. Many have been reduced to near destitution, their homes have been lost and some will never be able to retire. Fonseka preyed on members of his own community while Napoli and the other men did everything in their power to hide their criminal activity." (BMcN/GK)





Resilience and compassion in times of trouble

January 27, 2011, 12:00 pm

Sri Lankans' customary reaction to catastrophes evinces two laudable qualities: the resilience that they register in the face of adversity, and the spontaneous compassion that mobilizes them to help the affected.

Having gone through nearly four decades of civil unrest due to armed rebellion beginning with the birth of southern terror in April 1971 and ending with the last gasp of northern terror in May 2009, and having weathered natural calamities such as the December 2004 tsunami, and the later tragedies like the most recent devastation caused by inclement weather, Sri Lankans still manage to keep smiling.

The traditional criticism that Sri Lankans have only a short memory span may be partly due to a misreading of this national characteristic. In the fairy tale "The Three Princes of Serendip" the characters make unexpected but happy discoveries by chance and wisdom. The story seems to reflect the then average western observers' impression of what they implicitly believed to be a national personality trait of the islanders of Serendip (Sinhaladvipa, Ceylon or Sri Lanka): their nonchalance or habitual calm. It was Horace Walpole who coined the word "serendipity" (1754) based on this story to embody the meaning "the faculty of making happy chance finds" (Chamber's Dictionary).

It is a certain carefree ('cafree' in the positive sense of 'free from stress') attitude to life that gives our people the ability to pick up the pieces after a disaster and start living normally again. This is a great asset that they possess. Happiness is not acquiring the possession of material things. If it were, then all those who possess a lot of money and many things that money can buy must be deemed happy. Usually this is not the case. Happiness is a state of mind. It consists in feeling relaxed mainly, satisfied, and fulfilled. All material comforts without the peace of mind to enjoy them free from anxiety would be meaningless. Buddha hailed 'contentment' as the greatest possession one could have.

This tendency towards philosophic composure that enables Sri Lankans in general to deal with calamities in a spirit of courage and realism, I think, is attributable to many centuries of cultural fashioning under the influence of Buddhism. (Any implication that the influence of the teachings of other faiths hasn't contributed to this fashioning is not intended, for I see no difference between Buddhism and other systems of belief on this point, that is, the need for composure when buffeted by misfortune. Subject to correction, I'd add that these religions teach their followers to face the trials and tribulations in life with faith, courage, and wisdom, which ultimately amounts to an acceptance of personal responsibility for their own future as in Buddhism.)

However, because Buddhists form the majority religious-cultural community in the country, the kinds of pronouncements about the general cultural ethos of Sri Lankans, especially by outsiders, tend to identify it as moulded by Buddhism.

We may fail to notice toomuch the uniqueness of our own customary disciplined reaction to tragedies because of our familiarity with the fact. But it seems that it is more striking to people who come from other cultures. I myself began to reflect on it after a European acquaintance of mine from an economically very advanced country in personal conversation commented on the Sri Lankans' overall response to the catastrophic experience caused by the December 2004 tsunami. He characterized our conduct as "calm, composed, but extremely constructive, and a great deal free from meaningless lamentation"; he said that he was struck by the very high degree of "compassion and generosity" that the rest of the community extended towards the victims; in his opinion, his own people, on a similar occasion, would feel much more helpless and isolated, and their emotional lot would be much more miserable. He also knew the source of the average Sri Lankans' characteristic self-possession in the face of the vicissitudes of mundane existence: "It is the net result of centuries of your Buddhist training", he said. This person's negative view of his own native culture in this regard could be due to personal prejudice. But his laudatory words about the disciplined manner Sri Lankans conduct themselves in unpleasant situations made me think a little about a cultural legacy that we usually take for granted.

Aren't we talking about the virtue referred to in Pali as 'upekkha' or 'upeksha' in Sanskrit which is upheld in the Buddhist teachings? 'Upekkha' as advocated in Buddhism is more wisdom-based than mere fortitude or stoicism: fortitude is courage in bearing pain, trouble, misfortune without complaining; stoicism is emotional restraint in facing unpleasant situations; the word 'equanimity', which is usually offered as a translation of 'upekkha', is defined in English dictionaries as calmness of mind and attitude to life which prevents one from becoming upset when one faces hostility or experiences suffering. All three English words fortitude, stoicism, and equanimity are used in relation to tranquillity in responding to negative experiences. But 'upekkha' means serenity in situations that involve happiness as well as in those that involve suffering. The wise person does not lose their balance in either kind of situation. That is upekkha. And it is predicated on the law of impermanence, which Buddhists are taught as an immutable condition of our existence. Nothing is permanent. Buddhism teaches that all conditioned/component things (sankhara) are impermanent.

In fact, upekkha is just one of the four 'Brahma Viharanas' (Sublime States) taught in Buddhism: Mettha (Loving-kindness), Karuna (Compassion or kindness towards those suffering), Muditha Sympathetic Joy – sharing in others' happiness, the opposite of envy), and Upekkha (equanimity or serenity). All these states are implicit, at least in a very elementary form, in the conduct of these ordinary people.

In sorrowful situations, Buddhists are admonished to reflect on Tilakkhana (the Three Characteristics): Anicca (the transience or change that all component things are subject to), Dukkha (their sorrowfulness or unsatisfactoriness), and Anatta (no-self, soullessness, or insubstantiality) of all Dhammas (phenomena). Seeing these facts with wisdom helps one to overcome misery. It is true that the deep doctrinal elements of Buddhism may be beyond the immediate comprehension of most ordinary Buddhists (though they may accept them on faith for the time being). In any case, their hope of ultimately realising their truth helps them to relate these teachings to their life as sources of spiritual support. This is why we often hear old upasaka ammas musing aloud, "annicce, dukkhe, anatte" amidst scenes of sorrow or suffering.

Coming to terms with the hard realities of worldly existence in this manner is not passive acceptance of suffering. Buddhists believe that it is the most positive way to live, ensuring not only the successful management of their mundane affairs, but also their spiritual growth. This largely accounts for the high level of resilience with which our people bounced back in the wake of the tsunami tragedy, and other recent calamities.

The other Buddhist cultural value that informs Sri Lankans' civic activism at times of crisis is compassion (Karuna mentioned above), their readiness to come to the assistance of those in trouble. Compassion prompts them to indulge in giving in spite of their own difficulties. Buddhists are familiar with the stories about the previous births of the Buddha (the Jathaka Kathas) in which the Bodhisatva (The Buddha-to-be) performed the Dana Paramitha (the practice of giving) by donating his eyes, brain, flesh, and blood as claimed in Buddhist literature.

Deshabandu Dr F.G. Hudson Silva was the pioneer of eye donation not only in Sri Lanka but in the world. His method was to remove the corneas of a dead person's eyes (to which the deceased person had left written consent before their death), and graft them onto a blind person's eyes to restore their eyesight. He found it easy to persuade volunteers from his country's population to sign up for eye donation particularly because of their Buddhist background. Dr Silva founded the Sri Lanka Eye Donation Society in 1961 as a young doctor fresh from Medical School. Later, he founded the International Eye Bank, and Tissue Bank. This unique achievement in the world of medicine was facilitated by the Sri Lankan Buddhists' belief in the meritoriousness of donating things for helping others.

I am not claiming that Sri Lankan Buddhists have transcended what should be taken as ordinary human nature. As humans they are as fallible as others. Buddhists also have their normal share of murderers, cut-throats, liars, and thieves among them like others. But the particular culture of the mind that becomes explicit in the mode of behaviour they adopt as a community in response to negative circumstances distinguishes them as Buddhists (but not as holier or more virtuous than those of other faiths).

To some foreigners ordinary Sri Lankans may appear to be rather non-assertive, non-aggressive, or even docile. But this impression is usually due to our characteristic accommodating attitude in our social interaction with fellow humans including strangers. Once when terrorist violence was making headlines, an obviously ignorant though sympathetic foreign national asked me how it was possible for the normally "submissive" Sri Lankans to behave like that. I told him that he was sadly mistaken in describing Sri Lankans as submissive; their sometimes uncalled for show of deference to foreigners is due to their kind-hearted recognition of their humanity. And I gave him a bit of our glorious history of heroic resistance to foreign invaders, and also told him about our self-effacing humility in relating to non-aggressive foreigners in times of peace. We are as brave a nation as any in the world, but perhaps our Buddhist criteria of humanity may be different from others'.

The Buddhist idea of humanity is an aspect of compassion based on understanding the true nature of all phenomena – transience, suffering, and soullessness. Buddhists are taught to be compassionate not only towards fellow human beings, but also to all beings without discrimination, because we are all subject to these three conditions, and we find ourselves in the same predicament. What perpetuates this suffering through an endless cycle of births and deaths is Thanha (Craving). Eliminate thanha, and you break this cycle and attain the extinction of suffering. Thanha is based on the false idea of self. Give up the illusion of self and be rid of thanha. Renounce your attachment to worldly things. Practice giving. Giving in order to help those in need is a meritorious act.

This idea finds expression in the many donation campaigns that are organized to mark special occasions for donating eyes, blood, dansalas (alms centres) during the Vesak season, and other such activities involving dana (giving). Of course, there are occasions when poor people may donate blood, or a kidney for a payment. But the most established norm among the population in accordance with Buddhist values is for donations to be donations, not financial transactions.

Such an attitude is eminently compatible with the principle of civic sense which is a vital element in the maintenance of a healthy social structure. According to Washington-based IANS reports Sri Lanka ranks 8th among 130 countries in a recent Gallup poll on civic engagement. This distinction indirectly reflects our people's customary promptness for civic engagement, which is actually stimulated by the compassionate outlook on fellow creatures that the Buddhist teachings induce in the followers.

In this context, it may be opportune to remember that the religious-cultural attitudes we have being talking about are shared by all Sri Lankans. I always feel that this fact does more to unite them as a nation than anything else. If stimulating economic development and reinforcing ethnic harmony are our goals, then there is a firm foundation for both in our common cultural ethos which highlights, among other values, collective resilience and mutual compassion in times of trouble.





Russian Ambassador Challenge Trophy Open Team Chess Championship

The Anatoly Karpov Chess Club of the Russian Centre is to stage the Russian Ambassador Challenge Trophy Team Chess tournament on February, 11, 12 and 13 at Isipatana College, Colombo.

The tournament is an Open Team event for over 18 chess players Sri Lanka. (Men and Women).

Teams will consist of four players plus a reserve. Chess players from schools, universities, chess clubs or companies can field more than one team.

The champion men's and and women's teams will be awarded the Russian Ambassador Challenge Trophy. The champion men's team will also receive Rs. 10,000 and goal medals while the women's champs will be presented Rs. 5,000 and gold medals.





* If he conducts free and fair local polls

Elections Commisioner Dayananda Dissanayake has a good opportunity to redeem himself by conducting the forthcoming local government elections in a free and fair manner, the UNP said yesterday.

Deputy Leader of the UNP, Karu Jayasuirya told a news conference in Colombo that Dayananda Dissanayake could retire with dignity, if he ensured that the laws were strictly enforced at the LG polls.

Mr. Dissanayake, has a good opportunity to make amends for his past mistakes, by ensuring that the March 17 elections to 301 local bodies were conducted in free and fair manner, Jayasuriya said.

He said that the UNP was a disciplined political party which did not compromise its principles to capture power.

"While we welcome whole heartedly the SLFPers who joined the UNP recently, it would not be possible to offer them nominations to contest the local polls. This is because seniors have to be given priority," he said.

The UNP had submitted nominations for all the 301 local councils and was confident of performing very well, contrary to what its critics were saying, Jayasuirya said.

Badulla District UNP MP Harin Fernando told The Island that the government had introduced a Bill which, if passed would compel clerical staff in the health sector to work in any State institution.

"According to the Health Minister Nimal Siripala de Silva, the Bill was intended to control strikes in the health sector. But, it is doctors and nurses who strike on a regular basis and not the administrative staff. So the rationale for introducing new legislation is totally misplaced," he said.

The application form for a state job costs Rs. 2,000. So it was immoral to be transferring clerical staff who chose to work in the health sector, to other ministries on flimsy grounds, he said.





Ongoing Innovations by Travel Development Lanka

January 27, 2011, 10:10 pm

In another first, Travel Development Lanka (TDL) welcomed 23 visually. impaired persons from France, accompanied by 22 specialist companions who are specialized in enhancing the travel experience to visually impaired persons.

This French Group will be visiting the usual monuments and places of interest in the island, being guided by their accompanying specialist, paying special attention to visits to Pinnawela, the rain forests, the spice gardens and musical recitals.

TDL in partnership with the national carrier, Sri Lankan Airlines, and their logistical partner, Ceylon Tours have prepared special menus in Braille which will be served on board the aircraft and menu cards have been prepared for the hotels providing accommodation, Giritale, Kandy, Nuwara Eliya , Bentota and the Galle Face Hotel.

Travel Development Lanka, one of the leading Tour Operators for the French market recently clocked in their 1000th visitor for this season in a period of 2 1/2 months.





Nouriel Roubini says G20 has become G-Zero

Stewardship of the global economy is in disarray due to a vacuum of leadership, senior economists have warned.

Nouriel Roubini, professor of economics at New York University, and Sir Martin Sorrell, chief executive of the media group WPP, lamented a lack of joined-up global leadership, describing co-ordinated efforts to address trade imbalances, capital flows, water resources, immigration and climate change as "G Zero".

"There is complete disagreement and disarray. That's the sense of the G Zero," Mr Roubini said, explaining the new buzzword at the World Economic Forum's annual conference in the Swiss resort of Davos.

"There is no agreement on anything. We are in a world where there is no leadership," he added.

The G20 has had recent successes, striking a deal on bank capital requirements in South Korea last year and providing a forum for discussions on global imbalances.

However, much of the aspirational talk at the G20 meeting in Pittsburgh in 2009 has failed to turn into concrete actions.

The threat of protectionism still looms as the US and China struggle to adjust their economies, and other emerging markets have accused the US of launching a "currency war" to devalue their way to a more stable economy.

However, Laurence Parisot, head of France's MEDEF business lobby, said that talk of a "G Zero" was tantamount to calling for "economic war".

Good global leadership, Ms Parisot said, was needed to prevent protectionism and see off the far-right political forces making moves in that direction.

G20 personnel at Davos disputed the premise that they are achieving nothing and more measured voices than Mr Roubini said it was important to draw a "distinction between achieving agreement on everything and achieving agreement on anything".













Global economic meltdown hastening multipolarity

January 27, 2011, 8:25 pm

President Barack Obama is applauded by Vice President Joe Biden and House Speaker John Boehner on Capitol Hill in Washington, Tuesday, Jan. 25, 2011, while delivering his State of the Union address (AP)

US President Barack Obama's recent State of the Union address gives the world the essentials of the current global power structure. If the US intends 'to win the future', then, 'out-innovating, out-educating and outbuilding the rest of the world' is necessary, the US President pointed out. He went on to state that, 'The most important contest we face today is not between Democrats and Republicans. It's America's contest with competitors across the globe for the jobs and industries of our times.'

This is frankness of the highest order. This is an admission, in no uncertain terms, that the power of the US is very much on the decline and that it is being outsmarted in very many vital respects by other world powers. It is quite fashionable now to talk of the economic, military and political ascendance of the 'BRIC countries' and these states are certainly currently foremost among the states which are posing a challenge to the global supremacy of the US, but it would be quite a few decades before the US would completely weaken itself out of contention.

Nevertheless, an era of decline is upon the US and it is creditable of no less a political personality than the US President to come to grips with this reality and to convey the essence of this challenge to his countrymen. Brazil, Russia, India and China (BRIC) are indeed the countries to be watched and their growing economic prowess in particular has been relatively spectacular in the past few years. Some recent statistics would bear this out. It is reported that in 2007, BRIC's contribution to global economic growth outstripped that of the US for the first time, 30% to 20%. The productivity of BRIC is also expected to account for one fifth of the world economy, 20% of global trade and $ 1.5 trillion in monetary reserves – the latter far outstripping that of the US. East Asia's share of global exports reportedly rose three fold to 19% between 1975 and 2001, while exports within the region rose more than six fold within the same period.

Although spoken of in the same breath, BRIC cannot be considered a monolith. This is because China and India are currently enjoying phenomenal economic growth and by virtue of this fact are seen as 'the only BRICS in the wall', although categorized may be for convenience with Brazil and Russia who have also been notable in recent years for increasing growth. But nearly all these countries are characterized by a bourgeoning middle class, which is helping substantially in fuelling the expansion of the productive sectors of their economies and it need hardly be said that a steady increase in middle class customers is the key to the establishment of a manufacturing sector that specializes in high priced goods and services of some sophistication.

So, all credit to the US President for confronting the emerging world power relations candidly. To be sure, the US would need to invest far more than it is doing right now in Research and Development, besides placing special emphasis on the development of its human resources, by expanding the higher education budget, if the US is to outsmart the likes of China and India, because the latter are currently posing a serious threat to the US on these fronts.

These are developments in the global power structure that Obama's Republican critics in particular would need to take cognizance of because the economic crisis both at home and worldwide is not at all amenable to simple, text book solutions. The Republicans are on record as taking on the US President for the establishment of what is seen as an 'oversized government' but the lingering unemployment crisis in particular is likely to render governmental intervention in the running of the US economy a compelling necessity.

One should not be surprised, in fact, if economic planning comes into its own in these times of extreme volatility in food prices. The causes for the current world food price crunch are apparently complex but the fact is beyond dispute that this crisis is widespread, with the consequence that more and more countries are likely to see governmental intervention in the managing of economies an unavoidable necessity.

'With the global population set to rise and food prices likely to increase, it is crucial that a wide range of complementary actions from policy makers, farmers and businesses are taken now....Urgent change is required throughout the food system to bring sustainability centre stage and end hunger...', a British government report titled 'Global Food and Farming Futures' says.

These pronouncements need to be seen as a clarion call for concerted action on the part of governments and other relevant sectors to generate food security through careful and judicious economic management. Hunger may not be a problem at the moment in the US but a continued unemployment crunch may set the stage for a food crisis among the more disadvantaged in even the US. Food may certainly be an issue in the more economically weak European states which are today looking to the IMF for financial bail-outs.

In this situation of high priced and insufficient food, the more robust economies, such as those represented by BRIC, are likely to have the greater material capacity to tide over the crisis, but the same cannot be said of the crisis-hit European economies. The latter are likely to suffer further debilitation, thereby further hastening their departure from the global political stage as powers that need to be contended with.

Accordingly, the world political system will be characterized by a greater degree of power diffusion amid this worsening food crisis, but the new foremost powers will be located mainly in East Asia, with Brazil set to lead from the front in Latin America. Therefore, the World Economic Forum currently meeting in Davos, Switzerland, has its work cut out for itself. Although those espousing market-led growth may dislike it, the time has arrived for the world's governments to look closely at how they could judiciously intervene in their markets to stave off economic deprivation among their masses, coupled with exploring ways of working together to reduce the chances of a global food scarcity attended by high prices further spreading.





Attack on Chennai MahaBodhi Temple

January 27, 2011, 12:00 pm

The Island editorial dated 26th January deserves to be commended for expressing the country's feelings forthrightly while our politicos seem to be totally silent on the issue of the attack on the Maha Bodhi temple causing injury to resident and visiting Bhikkus and pilgrims. Not even those Ministers /politicians who are publicly seen patronizing Maha Bodhi Society functions here are seen to have made any noise. Perhaps, some of them are enjoying their newly conferred "Senior Ministers" status!

The only known action from the GOSL was to send the High Commissioner in New Delhi to Chennai to extract a guarantee that a repeat would not occur. It would appear that New Delhi has since provided security to Sri Lankan High Commission Offices and Maha Bodhi temples. That is after the horses have bolted! This is a bit late considering that there are pro-LTTE hostile forces at work including in TN political circles. Indian High Commission here is still under Indian security guard. Why no such reciprocal arrangements for Sri Lankan institutions by our own security contingents, if India cannot provide that? Is there no equation? And do we have to accept Indian over-lordship in these matters?

The attack was not surprising. After July '83, there were attempts to stop Buddhist pilgrims visiting Buddha Gaya and other holy places. I had to cancel arrangements to take my family there after purchasing air tickets. This was following a quick visit I had in April 1983.

More recently, B. Raman, former Additional Secretary (Intelligence) to the Indian Cabinet, now head of a Chennai based think tank, saw prospects of India stopping Indian tourist visits to Sri Lanka as a pressure point to thwart expanding Chinese influence in the island. So, the situation should not be taken in isolation.

I drew attention to this during the public debate on "Ramayana Trail" promoted by the Director-General, Kaila-Selvam of the Tourism Development Authority of Sri Lanka and Madhya Pradesh Deputy Minister, Chauhan Singh's visit to Sri Lanka (understandably supported by the Maha Bodhi Society of Sri Lanka) to lay the foundation for the BJP sponsored Sita Devi Maha Temple in the hill country. The visiting Minister gave millions of rupees as initial funds. I asked how this could happen when no new religious places could be built without the permission of the government, according to a recent decision. Did the intervention of Maha Bodhi Society in Chennai, which seemed to be looking for favours (not rights) there and the intervention of the Maha Bodhi Society here cut through that decision? Yes, the visiting Minister was even received by the Prime Minister and other Cabinet Ministers!

GOSL should realise the gravity of the situation and ask for guarantees of protection to Buddhist pilgrims and others visiting India and for Sri Lankan institutions. It also should seek guarantees from the Indian government that such incidents will not recur.

Tamil Nadu and Union politicians are raising merry hell over alleged attacks on Indian fishermen and are placing the blame on SL Navy. High Commissioner Prasad Kariyawasam has spoken of a third party involvement in the attack on fishermen. That happened during Eelam War. Could one see the involvement of the same third party hand in the Maha Bodhi temple attack; or that of another party in Tamil Nadu who is trying to create mischief to disrupt good relations between the two countries? It is not difficult to point to the party/ies in Tamil Nadu which may want to see such a situation emerging; or trying to cash in on the situation for deplorable political gain.

Why are our politicians/parliamentarians silent when Indian counterparts are shouting hoarse and threatening other action over the alleged attacks on their fishermen? Why is our Foreign Ministry playing second fiddle when even our kings obtained guarantees /protection for the Sri Lankan temples at Maha Bodhi at Gaya? Such negative positions cannot be condoned in the interest of good relations. Good relations are not just a one way process only to be promoted by the weaker party, the smaller partner.





World Cup or Mama-Bena show?

January 27, 2011, 12:00 pm

by Rex Clementine

The biggest challenge to Kumar Sangakkara and the Sri Lankan team, as they try to regain the Cricket World Cup, doesn't come from either India or Australia; instead it comes from within. It looks as if the Sri Lanka Cricket Interim Committee and the World Cup Secretariat were the most insurmountable hurdles he will have to clear in his path to victory.

Sanga and his boys will have to enter the World Cup fray without having ever played on two World Cup venues—Hambantota and Pallekele. At the renovated Premadasa Stadium, they have played only a few domestic matches. For, an ICC decree has prevented the Interim Committee from having the three One-Day Internationals against the West Indies at the World Cup venues.

Worse, the highly paid officials at SLC and the World Cup Secretariat have failed to read the Host Agreements for the World Cup, which state that no non World Cup related activities can take place on any of the World Cup grounds either 21 days prior to the first tournament match or 14 days prior to the first warm-up game (whichever is earlier).

The tragedy is that Sri Lanka could have played the current West Indies games at the World Cup venues, had prior permission been sought from the ICC, but no one cared. The Interim Committee bigwigs were busy tilting at windmills. They were bashing the media.

Chairman of the Cricket Interim Committee D.S. de Silva recently lashed out at the national press for what he called 'false reporting'. He had been offended beyond measure by reports that the completion of the World Cup venues was way behind schedule. But a few days later, he was shaken awake when the ICC expressed its concern 'as there is still some work required to be carried out on the venues."

D.S. de Silva was, true to form, barking up the wrong tree. He apparently forgot that the deadline for the construction of World Cup venues was Nov. 30, 2010. By the time he vented his spleen on the media, he was already late by almost two months!

"You can't make a silk purse out of a sow's ear." The Sri Lanka Cricket and the government did not heed this adage. They blundered by catapulting a novice to the top post of the World Cup Secretariat. Suraj Dandeniya is his name. We cautioned the government but it did not give two hoots about our warnings. After all, it is omniscient, isn't it? What else could you expect of a regime that appointed Mervyn Silva Minister of Public Affairs and Public Relations? Its forte is to find square pegs for round holes!

Dandeniya's only qualification is that he is the Interim Committee Chairman's nephew. He draws a salary of Rs. 550,000 besides perks. It was a supreme irony that this schoolboy cricketer turned World Cup Secretariat Director has been drawing double the salary of the former Sri Lanka Test Captain Duleep Mendis as SLC CEO! Not cricket, eh?

DS may be a failed cricket administrator but he is certainly an excellent uncle. He has appointed another nephew, Kapila Dandeniya, Manager of the World Cup Secretariat. He gets salary of Rs. 275,000.The Mama-Bena show has cost both Sri Lanka Cricket and the country dear.

Nishatha Ranatunga, the Secretary of the Cricket Interim Committee once claimed that Sri Lanka Cricket was a corporate body and it knew what it was doing. Well, we are not aware of any other corporate body in the country that pays an employee twice the salary of its CEO.

The raison d'etre of an Interim Committee is to bring transparency into the game. Under the guidance of men of integrity and stature like Rinezie Wijetilleke, Hemaka Amarasuriya, S. Skandakumar, Michael Tissera, Sidat Wettimuny, Kushil Gunasekara, K. Mathivanan, Interim Committees rendered yeoman service to Sri Lankan cricket. Today, the game is in the hands of some jokers who are running the cricket administration like petti kade (wayside kiosk)

Not to be outdone, the Minister of Sports Mahindananda Aluthgamage has appointed two of his classmates (up to which grade we really do not know) to the Interim Committee. (Hasn't he got any nephews?)

This World Cup was the best opportunity for Sri Lanka to showcase its organising skills. In 1987, when the sub-continent hosted the World Cup, Sri Lanka didn't get a single game. But in 1996, we were given four games and the number has more than doubled this time around. We should have organised the matches at issue in such a way that we would have been in a position to demand that the final be played in Sri Lanka in the future. But the Uncle and his Nephews have ruined out chances in style!

Some may argue that with India around Sri Lanka's prospects of having a World Cup final are rather dim, but look at tiny Qatar, which has won the hosting rights of the 2022 Football World Cup.

When the construction work began on the three World Cup venues, (the higher paid) Dandeniya boasted that they would help the country achieve its ambitious goal of becoming Asia's Wonder. At the rate the Interim Committee is bungling, it will be a miracle if we manage to host the World Cup matches free from hassle.

Sanga must be saying to himself: "I will tackle Indians and Aussies, but God save us from our cricket administrators."





Mr. Hu in America

January 27, 2011, 8:31 pm

by Salman Haidar

THE relationship between China and the USA has never been easy. They have looked at the world differently and tended to be on opposite sides of a major divide. Yet while ideological differences pulled them apart, strategic convergence had the opposite effect, making for an up-and-down relationship. It was only when China changed tack and opened up its economy that matters took a different turn, and partnership with the USA became the cornerstone of Chinese economic strategy. China was prepared for some years to defer to this partner, for the great imperative was to keep open the doors to the world, to which the keys were in US hands. There were limits, of course ~ China was never less than zealous in defence of what it regarded as its core interests. But still, it was prepared to keep a low profile and not insist on what were considered to be secondary goals, in order to concentrate on its central task of economic and social progress.

With the huge success of the last 30 years, China has begun to move on and has adapted its ways. Today, it is less ready to defer, more willing to assert. More frequently, it follows its own course and promotes its own views. This has had a measurable effect on the China-US relationship. The partnership is still very important to both but the change in the balance between them has often bred misunderstanding, and their differences on major issues have lately become more marked. To complicate matters further, there is a perception in some quarters that this is a time when China is rising and the USA is beginning to go into decline, though there are many to contest such a judgment.

President Hu Jintao's recent visit to Washington thus came at a time when many questions are in the air and several divisive issues that strain bilateral China-US ties have become prominent. Among these is that of human rights, which has once more been on the boil. China's incarceration of Nobel Prize winner Liu Xiaobo has been condemned in most parts of the world, especially in the USA, though China has indignantly rejected all criticism on this score. Urged on by public opinion, President Obama took up the matter with his guest, as did some US legislators when they received a visit from the Chinese President. To an extent, President Hu disarmed the critics by acknowledging that China had some way to go to assure its people's human rights, though differences remain on what is implied by this term which has very different connotations in the two countries. At all events, the issue was not permitted to overshadow the visit.

There was also a small advance on how to respond to North Korea where the two sides have not seen eye-to-eye. This time, they were able to agree on calling for dialogue between North and South, something that China had earlier refrained from doing in order to back up the North, which prefers multilateral discussions. China was also prepared to join the USA in expressing concern about the recent revelation of a newly established uranium enrichment plant in North Korea. But that is as far convergence went, and there is little sign of China being prepared to bear down more strongly on North Korea, as the USA desires. Indeed, it was revealed that during the visit the USA had indicated readiness to step up its military capacity in the Pacific to counter a perceived threat from nuclear developments in the North, even though such a military build-up on its doorstep would be a matter of concern to China.

There have also been other developments in the military field to create tremors, like the unveiling of a sophisticated, indigenously developed Stealth fighter by China, which took place when the US Defence Secretary was on a visit to that country. This was interpreted as a deliberately challenging gesture. However, it seems that neither side wishes to escalate the misunderstanding and it was agreed during Mr Hu's visit that China's top general would shortly pay a formal visit to the USA. The Chinese President was also careful to disclaim any intention of seeking military domination or to become a threat to anyone.

During previous state visits, matters relating to Tibet or Taiwan have caused friction, whether it is the status of the one or arms supplies to the other, but not this time. These are prime among China's core interests and did not seem to have been much discussed. The US side reiterated its position that Tibet was part of China, and there seemed to have been no hostile demonstrations by interested groups to contest this position. It is worth recollecting that not long ago President Obama had a meeting with the Dalai Lama, which provoked great indignation in Beijing ~ there were no echoes of that event during the Hu Jintao visit.

The most tangible achievements of the visit were in the economic area. For quite some time now, the USA has been pressing China, with little effect, to revalue its currency, but this call seems to have been set aside during the Hu visit in favour of demands for better US access to the Chinese market. Here, there was much to record.

Sales worth $45 billion by American companies were announced, including 200 Boeing aircraft. Some of the announced deals are in fact still in a preliminary stage but nevertheless the visit yielded a substantial economic outcome. Among the agreed measures was a Chinese promise to curb theft of intellectual property, a long-standing US grievance. Another Chinese concession to US demands was to permit US firms to bid for official contracts from which they and other foreign suppliers had been excluded.

Such measures underlined the fact that this was a visit with useful results and served to control or curb some of the recent negative trends in Sino-US relations. Both sides showing regard for the sensitivities of the other, and Chinese commentaries after the event expressed particular satisfaction at the fact that the two sides met as equals, something that China especially values. All in all, no great change in the basic trajectory of the relationship was to be discerned, or any overarching convergence with global consequences; it was more a matter of smoothening the path for the future on what is expected to be Mr Hu Jintao's last visit to the USA before he hands over to his successor next year.

India will take mild satisfaction from the fact that the joint statement makes no reference to South Asia, unlike the previous one, which had not been appreciated in New Delhi. Like the rest of the world, India has kept a watchful eye on the visit and will doubtless remain alert, for the ties between these two potent countries inevitably have a global fallout.

(The Statesman/ANN)

Dancers from Chicago's McCormick Elementary School perform a traditional Chinese handkerchief dance for Chinese President Hu Jintao at Walter Payton College Preparatory School in Chicago on Friday, Jan. 21, 2011.





ACHSU threatens major strike Govt. plans to deploy forces to assist in hospitals

January 27, 2011, 10:15 pm

by Dasun Edirisinghe

The All Ceylon Health Service Union (ACHSU) has threatened countrywide trade union action if solutions are not found to their problems. "Solutions were promised six months ago", ACHSU President Gamini Kumarasinghe said.

Training for minor staff, a uniform allowance of Rs 7,500 and a risk allowance of Rs 5,000 were some of the eight demands which health authorities promised to meet in May last year, Kumarasinghe said.

If the Government fails to provide solutions within the next two weeks we will definitely strike, he further said.

Health Ministry spokesman W. M. D. Wanninayake said that the Ministry has already met some of the Union's demands and they cannot expect all demands to be met immediately.

He said if hospital minor workers strike it could function with the help of the armed forces. As in the past.





The difference between then and now

January 27, 2011, 10:34 pm

by Sharm de Alwis

Apart from tuition, what is it that today's school children have that we did not have 50-60 years ago? Life was then for spacious living and on weekends in the cricket season. We would shower our love and loyalty to the school by squatting five rows deep in the Asgiriya grass and applauding our team or deriding the opposition. Pavilions were for parents, teachers and snooty elders. We were content with the splendour in the grass.

"Give us another one

Just like the other one" for a sixer or boundary, or,

"Change the bowler

He's no bowler" when the opposition's bowlers was taken to the cleaners.

The Trinity-Josephian cricket match has held its own in the time warp since it was first played in 1908 for an easy Joe's win by an innings and 48 runs. It was only in the inaugural game that Trinity was severely tamed and the fixture quickly assumed utmost importance to decide on the year's champion in the schools arena.

One of the most gruelling games was in 1946 when Neil Weerasinghe led the Joes and the Trinitians were led by Mervyn Wanduragala in the absence of C. N.'Pittu' Schokman. Despite having in their ranks four Lions, in Mervyn, himself, S. B. Pilapitiya, Frank Sirimanne and Asoka Imbuldeniya, Trinity made heavy weather in the final stages of the game.

The Joes managed only 100 runs in the first innings and were shot out for 70 in the second essay with Wanduragala returning a spell of 13-4-21-7. Trinity had a meager 56 runs to get in oodles of time, but the Josephian opening attack of Joe de Mel and Tommy Rodrigo grabbed 3 for 13 and 4 for 25 between to have Trinity against the ropes with 10 for 6 and later, after a whiff of fresh air, 18 for 7. It was then that Trinity's Principal came down from the pavilion and instructed Roland Aluvihare and me who were manning the circular plates to change the score every run rather than the accepted 10 runs. When Trinity had 52 to get for the final hurrah, Harvey Jones was on anchor with 35 n.o. and Lionel Wadsworth stepped in to get the win in singles, but in attempting the second run Lala was run out, even though Trinity won by one run rather than by one wicket.

It was the first time that the scoreboard was changed in Asgiriya every run and not every 10 runs. The Trinity Principal, C. E. Simithraaratchy, must have rejoiced as much as the players, because it had been under his captaincy in 1913 that Trinity registered her first win in the series.

It was only in Trinity's epic resurgence when 25 games were won on the trot between 1921 and '22 under Percy Maralande's second and third years of captaincy and C. V. 'Pug' Schokman's in 1923 and in '24 when John Halangoda was the coach Trinity won by an innings except the Wesley game which was won by 10 wickets. Not a single chance was grassed over the years.

The last game that Trinity won in the series was when MTM Zaruk steered them in 1964 and even though he opened the attack with spinner Himendra Ranaweera to snatch a wicket in the first over in the next year, the Josephians did not have much of a task before them.

Last Friday, Trinity took first lease of the wicket and were ahead of the clock with 71 for 1 but with reckless strokes they committed 'hara kari' to be 78 for 5. Even though the Sword of Damocles was hanging over his head, skipper Akila Jayasundera chanced his arm to execute worthy strokes and keep the tempo at a run a minute and at lunch it was 157 for 7 after 150 minutes of play.

The Josephians followed the same script as the Trinitians and from 72 for 1 succumbed to 89 for 5, with Amil Anas commanding respect. They finally collapsed for 173, 20 runs shy of the Trinity score.

Trinity went about their scoring in a breezy manner and it was quite irritating that a misguided parent of a player kept shouting advice even as strike was being taken. I had to caution him and ask that he should give his advice between strokes.

But a more disastrous matter was that 100 games in the series had not inculcated a sense of hospitality by the official who purported to be the Josephian coach when he asked the Trinity players to vacate the upper pavilion as it was only for the home team. It is this type of actions that segregates.

Trinity went about her quest in an exemplary manner, notching more than a run a minute and were finally out for 179, leaving the Joes 200 runs to win the match.

When Trinity opened the attack with spin at both ends, MTM Zaruk, opined that it should have been a pace/spin attack. With seven wickets scalped and 100 runs in the bank, he also said that Trinity should have crowded the batsmen with all the fielders, never mind the fours. The misguided parent was silent throughout. And why did the Trinity skipper hold himself back in the bowling department? With six worthy spinners in the side, the bowling should have been alternated in short spells.

Trinity's Aamil Anas had a match bag of 8 for 80 and Janishka Premasinghe 6 for 98.

For SJC, Kevin Bernardus, Carlton's son, scored a pleasing 37 in the first innings but was snooked when he went for a big hit in the second innings. Dilan Fernandopulle [35 and 34], Sadheera Samarawickrema [22] were the chief batsmen. Last year's skipper, Dinal Dambarage had a match bag of 8 for 107], Roscoe Thattil [6for81] and Shivain Alirajah [4for70] were the chief wreckers.





Winning the hearts of the common man

January 27, 2011, 12:00 pm

The other day, I drove down to Kaduwela junction and then took the road that leads to the main Colombo Kandy road. Usually it takes 45 minutes to do this stretch, but now with a splendidly carpeted road it took me only 25 minutes to reach the Kandy road. Great! The current upgrading of our infrastructure and building of bridges, no doubt, is going to benefit the common man to a great extent. We have to thank the government for this Herculean effort.

But, what concerns me most is the frightening cost of living, especially the soaring prices of food items. I appreciate the army distributing vegetables to the common man. They should continue to assist the public whenever and wherever they can. Most of the distribution points saw massive queues to obtain these goods at lower prices. The long queues are indicative of the desperation of the ordinary folk to purchase essential commodities at reasonable prices.

People were ready to stand in proletarian queues because of their anxiety to balance their meagre budgets. Too many holes in their threadbare wallets would lead to a dangerous situation, if the government does not pay immediate heed to this grave problem.

President Mahinda Rajapaksa has brought peace to this country after 30 long years. It means, lest we forget, that everyone can move around freely without living on the knife edge of apprehension, never knowing who is going to be blown up by a bomb. We are today breathing that sweet fragrance of freedom and have peace of mind that we prayed for. Here again my concern is for people of the North who are still living in tents and whose burden has not yet been sorted out. Unless and until we address this situation with a sincere approach, we will leave room for the critics of Sri Lanka to protest in cooler climes. It warms the cockles of the hearts of the Tamil speaking people living here to see the President talk in Tamil on public occasions. A wonderful effort that no other President has been bold enough to make! Now is the time for us to win the hearts and minds of the war-affected Tamils by affording them real peace and equal opportunities in life.

The life styles of too many politicians have become outrageously ostentatious. Please, Mr. President ask your men to behave and respect the ordinary people. I think the common man is perturbed by the conduct of some unruly politicians.

Let these words of Albert Einstein be heeded:

"The highest destiny of the individual is to serve rather than to rule"





