lA collection of poems in Thamil by Sivanandam Sivasegeram was launched on December 05, 2008 at the Kolumbu Thamil Sangam, Wellawatta organised by Dhesiya Kalai Ilalliyap Peravai of 44,3 rd Floor, CCSM Complex, Colombo 11. This book was published by the latter and priced at Rs.150/- The title of the collection is kallery thuuram (a stone's throw away)

The poet is also an ardent ultra Marxist (Maoist kind) 'literary critic' in Thamil and hailed by sections of the Thamilnadu literary circles and sections of local Thamil literary circles as an important' literary critic'. They call him a 'Vimarsakar;the word used by most Thamilians in Lanka for literary criticism is 'Vimarsanam'. They think "Vimarsanam" is virtual condemnation, and it need not be a balanced evaluation of a work . Most ardent ideologues and post modernists and post structuralists believe that 'literary criticism' means just criticising anything indiscriminately bordering towards 'condemnation', if it doesn't fall into their political thinking or 'chinthanai.'

Having understood literary criticism in a different way – finding out what the merits of a work are – I use the term "Thiran Aaivu."

Sivasegeram entered the Thamil literary scene I think (perhaps he had started writing even before that) when he was in England for his doctorate at Imperial College, London, writing to the sporadic literary 'little magazines' in Thamil in Western Europe. He established contacts with them and overnight turned out to be a 'literary critic' when he came back to Lanka and again in Thamilnadu 'little magazines' circles recommended by an individual Londoner of Lankan origin.

Sivasegeram does not belong to the Thamil Department at the University of Peradeniya. He is in fact a very senior Professor in Mechanical Engineering at the same university. He is a scholar( or may be a Fellow - I am not sure) from the Imperial College of London. Although he is my relative, he doesn't bother to boast of his academic achievements or his acute intelligence and literary talents. He is very simple and enjoys teasing and very satirical on many matters. I hope I wouldn't be wrong to judge him as a cynic. Most journalists are sceptical and cynical from my experience as a journalist.

He used to write in English as well, primarily on political issues in such journals like the prestigious but now defunct "Lanka Guardian" edited by the late Mervyn de Silva. But of late he doesn't write in English but concentrates on political articles in Thamil under pseudonyms in newspapers and journals like "Thaayaham" and "Puthiya Bhoomi", which are literary and political organs of a political institution crediting itself as proponents of New Democracy. Probably Sivasegeram is their mentor and a political consultant for them.

Whatever one would say about him as a 'literary critic', he is an excellent poet in both Thamil and English and a very fine translator. His fluency in both English and Thamil is marvellous.

In 2004, he published in English a collection of poems titled 'about another matter'. I am yet to read this collection. But in Thamil he has brought out the following collections of poems which are excellent from my point of view:

Sivasegeram has also published two books on his pet subject – "Vimarsanam". They are Vimarsanangal. and Sivasegerathin Vimarsanangal

In this collection – Kalleri Thuurum – there are 27 poems. I would not say that I liked all the poems, but there are a few which I enjoyed. I think it would be better if I could make an attempt to either translate or transcreate some of the poems I liked so that readers can judge the intrinsic merits of these poems by themselves. I am particularly interested in doing justice to these poems within my limited capability to do this task.

Most of his poems are political poems or talking about social events with a political stance. A handful of them are what may be called not public poems but private poems with political overtones.





