Duruthu Full Moon Poya is of special significance to Sri Lankan Buddhist, because the day marks the visit of the Buddha to Sri Lanka. It was his first visit. He had set foot on the soil of Mahiyangana, the central plains of the hill country.

On seeing the arrival of the Buddha, the Yakkas, early dwellers of that region, (not devils, but a tribal community of uncivilized society) had become bewildered and with confused minds began to ridicule the Buddha. Whereupon the Buddha while remaining in the air by miraculous power created a fire surrounding his person to subdue the pride of the Yakkas. On seeing this extraordinary occurrence, Yakkas were frightened and ran away in all directions.

According to historical records the Buddhas second visited had taken place on the Bak Amawaka Poya day. It was to Nagadeepa in northern Sri Lanka in order to settle a dispute between, Mahodara and Chulodara, uncle and nephew- the two are royalists who were at war with each other over a gem studded throne.

The Buddha preached to Nagas to make them understand the evil of hatred, they were overwhelmed by happiness on hearing of the Dhamma and finally both Chulodara and Mahodara shed their weapons and offered the throne to the Buddha. The throne is now enshrined in the Nagadeepa Stupa.

Naga King Maniakkika of the Kelaniya who was the uncle of Mahodara (mother's brother) was also among the ones who had come to witness the Buddha's intervention in settling down the dispute. He was overwhelmed by the Buddha's intervention in settling down dispute, expressed his intention of seeing the Buddha visiting his kingdom in Kelaniya. The Buddha responded positively.

On the eighth year of His enlightenment the Buddha arrived at Kelaniya with a retinue of 500 Arahants on a Vesak Full Moon Poya day. King Maniakkika received the Blessed One and Arahants with great honour, dignity and grace.

The king had made a special seat studded with gems for the Buddha to sit and deliver the supreme discourse of the Dhamma. After partaking of the alms (Dana) offered by the king, the Buddha sat on the gem studded seat and delivered the supreme discourse of Dharna to the Arahants, king and his citizens.

Thereafter the Buddha accompanied by Arahants visited Samanthakuta (Sripada) the abode of God Sumana Saman and several other places that were known and honoured as sacred places of worship.

On the summit of the Samanthakuta, the Buddha imprinted his foot print on the rock, which is venerated to date. Millions of devotees flock to the summit for veneration. Historical records state that King Maniakkika built the Stupa at the site where the Buddha preached the sublime Dhamma enshrining the gem studded seat (Menik Mandapaya), all utensils that had used for the preparation of alms and also the hair relics as a sacred memorial, so that devotees could pay homage and will get about blessing and happiness. This was the only Stupa that has been built in the shape of a heap of paddy.

The annual Kelani Duruthu Perahara, has been held since 1927 to commemorate the Buddha's first visit to Sri Lanka. The special feature of this pageant is the carrying of the golden casket containing Buddha's relics. The majestic tusker carries the relics casket on his richly caparisoned back while walking majestically and with dignity pacing proudly on the white cloth spread along the path way as a mark of respect to the holy relics of the Buddha accompanied by drummers, traditional dancers amidst singing verses of praise and Pancha Thuriyanada.





