When you read someone's book you get the feeling of having actually met the person, says world renowned author Vikram Seth.

Speaking at the Galle Literary Festival 2008 which concluded in Galle last week, Vikram said that he has never met the famous writer Gore Vidal - though Vidal speaks of them meeting on an earlier occasion.

Vidal (82), who is now confined to a wheelchair, came all the way from America to be present at GLF 2008.

Sharing his experiences with the audience Vidal said he recalls meeting Vikram, who speaking a short while later said he never had the fortune of meeting Vidal before.

This proves the point I am making, Vikram observed. "When you read someone's book you feel as if you have actually met them. Friendship in a wider sense is furthered by understanding each others words."

Vikram, who hails from India is a poet, travel writer, librettist, children's writer, biographer and memoirist but is best know for his novels, though he considered himself a poet first having published five volumes of poetry. His travel book 'From Heaven Lake: Travels through Sinkiang and Tibet' won the Thomas Cook award for travel writing.

The best seller 'A Suitable Boy' by Vikram was received with universal enthusiasm, notwithstanding its somewhat controversial passing over for the Booker Prize shortlist. However, he has won many awards including the 1985 Commonwealth Poetry Prize (Asia) for 'The Humble Administrator's Garden'. In 2007, Vikram was conferred the Padma Shri Award.

Eugene Luther Gore Vidal - scion of a prominent American family is an outspoken critic of his country's political establishment, a noted wit and social critic.

He, wrote the ground breaking 'City and the Pillar' that outraged mainstream critics as the first major American novel to feature unambiguous homosexuality.

Described by 'Newsweek' as "the best all round man of letters since Edmund Wilson", Vidal's first novel 'Williwaw' in 1946, was about his military experiences.

Since then he has written twenty five novels seven plays,many screen plays, short stories, well over two hundred essays and two memoirs including 'The Best Man' and 'Visit to a Small Planet', both Broadway and movie successes.

Vidal, also wrote the meticulously researched 'Julian and Washington DC' winning the national book award in 1993 for his collection of essays 'United States'.





