Consumers are up-in-arms over the price escalation of various varieties of rice. Chicken and vegetables too, have gone up in price despite government claims to the contrary.

Many irate consumers told The Island that the rice prices in the open market continue to soar with Sudu Kekulu sold at Rs. 75 a kilo, Rathu Kekulu at Rs. 80 to Rs. 95, Samba at Rs. 90 to Rs. 100, While Nadu was not available at many retail markets.

Minister of Trade, Marketing Development, Co-operatives and Consumer Services, Bandula Gunawardene, told The Island that rice prices have been reduced at Sathosa, Lanka Sathosa and Co-operative outlets, even further, with Sudu Kekulu at Rs. 50, Rathu Kekulu at Rs. 60, Nadu (Kora from Pakistan) at Rs. 70, Basmathi at Rs. 76/50 and Keeri Samba at Rs. 99. The normal Samba was not available at the Lanka Sathosa.

Minister Gunawardene said that 5,000 metric tons was imported by the State Trading (General) Corporation and Distributed through coops from the stores of the Food Commissioners Department at Narahenpita. He said: The maximum retail price for a kilo of Sudu Kekulu was Rs. 60 and that consumers who are charged more than the stipulated price could complain to the Consumer Affairs Authority (CAA) who will conduct raids on the errant retail markets/traders.

"Whatever the Minister says, the price of rice has not decreased, but increased in the open market. Why does he not organise raids at random on the retail outlets. He will then know the correct picture. There is some jugglery going on," these irate consumers said. They alleged that the "Polonnaruwa Mafia" is controlling the rice market.

A spokesman for the Pettah wholesale rice traders told The Island that they have reduced the price of Sudu Kekulu to Rs. 46 to Rs. 47 a kilo with the government importing this variety. However, the retail traders are not purchasing the other varieties of rice, as the prices are yet steep.

Consumers further complained that a kilo of chicken has now increased to Rs. 460 a kilo, which was about Rs. 20 to Rs. 30 less at the beginning of the month. Eggs are the only consumer item to come down and sold at Rs. 12 to Rs. 13 in the market from Rs. 17 to Rs. 20 earlier prices of certain vegetables are also at astronomical levels.

Poultry Industry sources told The Island that an acute shortage of poultry feed, mainly maize, which consists of 50 per cent of the poultry feed continues.

"The government authorities, particularly the Ministry of Livestock Development are not making any attempt to rectify the shortage. They do not heed to our requests of importing maize. We need 200,000 tons of maize annually, while the figures for 2009 clearly indicate a local production of only 120,000 tons. The middlemen buy maize straight from the farmers in Mihintale, Anuradhapura and Kekirawa areas for Rs. 28 a kilo, hoard it and later sell for Rs. 57 or more," a spokesman for the Poultry Industry said .

The same sources told The Island that only 20,000 tons was imported when the requirement was 40,000 tons. When it is imported, it costs the poor farmers Rs. 57 to Rs. 59 a kilo, as there is an import duty of 67 per cent.

When The Island made attempts to get the views from the Ministry of Livestock Development, they refused to comment. They said that poultry industry officials are always complaining and finding fault with the Ministry.





