Now is not the time to initiate depreciation of the rupee -Prof.Rankaduwa

By Devan Daniel

An Economics professor said if Sri Lanka's currency is to be depreciated it must be done so with caution and at a gradual, steady and slow pace so as to avoid other problems which the country may not be in a position to handle.

Prof. Wimal Rankaduwa, Professor of Economics of the University of Prince Edward Island, Canada, told the Island Financial Review that policy makers have to be careful with the exchange rate because it will not only impact trade, but also foreign direct investments and the repayment of foreign loans.

"The speed in which the rupee is depreciated matters more than the change it self and if it happens too fast and if there is a drastic depreciation it would create problems that cannot be tackled in the short to medium term," he said.

Prof. Rankaduwa thinks now is not the time for Sri Lanka to depreciate the rupee.

"Some economists argue that the rupee should be depreciated and exporters will say this is necessary because it would increase their competitiveness," he said.

"But, this is not the stage to allow the rupee to depreciate as taken in context against the global economic environment, as a depreciation of the currency is not going to be too effective. Sri Lanka can afford to wait a while longer," Prof. Rankaduwa thinks.

As competitor countries have depreciated their own currencies and while demand too has slumped, considering the cost to repay Sri Lanka's foreign debts, finance interest payments and attracting FDIs, he suggests it is worthwhile to hold on for sometime.

But then we have a reserve crisis.

"The Central Bank I hear has taken several steps to boost reserves and this is a cautious and healthy way of going about it," Prof. Rankaduwa said.

But then again, economists and exporters are not asking for currency devaluation, but for authorities to allow the rupee to reflect the trade balance, which is in deficit and therefore exerts pressure on the rupee to depreciate.

"There is no problem for asking this provided Sri Lanka follows a trade policy which is completely free. We must also understand that trade in most other countries are better developed than ours and when more powerful competitor countries find that demand for their goods have dropped they will be able to adjust more quickly and effectively and Sri Lanka may find itself back to square one," Prof. Rankaduwa said.

"We will be very wrong in thinking only about improving competitiveness through an exchange rate adjustment. This is only a short term measure. What needs to be done is improve competitiveness for the long term and this means improving efficiency and productivity.

"Depreciating the rupee may make exports cheaper to buyers but this advantage can only be sustained for a short while and when competitor countries begin to reduce their prices what then? It is important that the government adopts policies to improve productivity in terms of labour productivity and capital productivity, only then can competitiveness be sustained in the long run," he said.

Capital productivity can be a problem with banks saying they are feeling the stress of tight liquidity and coupled with high taxes and interest rates will not be in a position to lend as much as they would like to.

But Prof. Rankaduwa said the country's banking system had never really lent money where it mattered most, such as development activities of the government or to small and medium enterprises and industrialists.

"Credit has not been channeled to the real sector and unless this happens they can never really enhance growth in terms of improving the standards of living of the people," he said.

He said despite the global financial crisis, Sri Lanka should have expected a crisis because after opening up its economy in the '70s it inherited the economic cycles of the capitalist system.

"Economic crisis is hallmark of free market systems and the challenge is not about avoiding the crisis but postponing it. If don't focus, if we don't do the right thing and if we are not focused on long term issues we are only creating the next crisis," Prof Rankaduwa said.

"Unless Sri Lanka makes a policy mistake I feel things can improve, however, it must be kept in mind that any protectionist behavior to safeguard domestic industries should strictly be for a short time only and if it does not help certain industries find their feet then they should be allowed to die a natural death," he said.





