The Island-SportsIt took just one day for the England and Wales Cricket Board to appoint Peter Moores after Duncan Fletcher's resignation in April 2007.

If Moores is replaced as England coach before the team's tour to the West Indies begins later this month, then the search for his successor will, by necessity, be a more considered process.

Moores was the obvious, and only, candidate for a job that was never advertised. Apart from his championship-winning pedigree with Sussex, and brief role as director of the England Academy, Moores had that added bonus of being English. With Zimbabwean Fletcher at the helm for seven years it was time for England to prove they could produce their own coaching talent. What better way than to promote Moores, a graduate of the ECB's coaching programmes and the county scene? It also made for an easy, seamless transition from the traumatic dying days of the Fletcher era.

At first Moores impressed and just a couple of weeks ago senior sources at the ECB were praising his coaching workshops. Moores is a persuasive talker when away from microphones and tape recorders, and at board level he still has allies.

But it seems that within the dressing room support has withered away, and in recent days Moores' position has become increasingly untenable as his authority has been eroded. His plight will be noted around the world by those who may be tempted to apply for any future vacancy.

That the next England coach will not be English is perhaps unavoidable, given the modern trend of appointing from overseas, with five out of nine Test playing nations employing foreign coaches.

Within the ECB's academy set-up Moores has made appointments in his own mould that do not throw up an obvious heir. David Parsons, the ECB's performance director, has no first-class playing experience while new batting coach Dene Hills never made it beyond Tasmania's Sheffield Shield team.

The proliferation of overseas coaches in county cricket in recent years has stunted the progress of Englishman and candidates are few. Ashley Giles is perhaps the exception. He has emerged as the likeliest caretaker coach for the West Indies tour, which would be the latest stage of his fast-tracking, by both the ECB and his county, to the top of the coaching tree. Warwickshire gave him a significant bump up the pecking order when they gave him his first full-time coaching job as their director of cricket.

The ECB then made him a selector and he was with the England team for their second Test in India just before Christmas. Observers noted then how Pietersen organised better fields for his spinners during that Test match.

Geoff Cook has guided Durham to their first trophy successes but is unlikely to want to make the step up, leaving Yorkshire's Martyn Moxon as the only other English candidate from the county scene with any realistic chance of making any shortlist.

Kent's Graham Ford, a former coach of South Africa, is believed to be Pietersen's favoured choice with the pair having worked together at Natal. Pietersen was then a promising off-spinner who was forced to seek fame and fortune in this country.

Times have changed but one thing is certain. If the ECB end this week searching for a new coach, top of their list of desirable assets will be compatibility with the England captain. It seems to be useful survival tool.

Probably the only English candidate. The job may have come too soon for Giles who only ended his playing days in 2007. Giles guided Warwickshire to promotion from the second division of the championship last summer and remains close to senior members of the England team.

Ford was appointed South Africa coach in 1999 and won eight out of 11 series but was dismissed in 2002. Ford became director of cricket at Kent where he remains today. His reputation is such that he was offered chance to coach India this year but turned it down.

Or what about Steve Waugh or Stephen Fleming? Big names but also big outsiders. None has international coaching experience and all would be expensive. They would, however, command instant respect in the England dressing room.

Pietersen compatibility rating: Would all instantly gain KP's term of endearment, "me old china".

Coached Worcestershire and would command respect in the England dressing room for his international playing career with Australia and time spent coaching Sri Lanka. Left his job with Sri Lanka after getting fed up with life in hotel rooms, so may be difficult to tempt back to high-profile role.



