Trinity College, Kandy, is one of the a handful of schools in the island that is second to none, in respect of the facilities they offer in the field of sports and when it comes to cricket in particular, it is the only school in the whole world which can boast of having an international Test venue, which is their school cricket ground.

Undoubtedly, the 'Lions' have benefited because of this factor and one solid example is Kumar Sangakkara, who has been the world's number one batsman, a proud product of Trinity.

What the youngsters in the First XI team hope for is to emulate this great cricketer.

It has been over a decade since Sangakkara left his alma mater, and after twelve long years, Trinity a wicketkeeper/opening batsman as their skipper, in Dilan Gangoda. This lad, who has represented his school for four years in a row, speaking to 'The Island' said that despite the fact that they have performed below par so far this season, they have recently managed to make amends.

The team that has had eight outings, recorded an outright victory against Sri Rahula College, Katugastota, and went on to put up an enhanced performance in their first innings against Kegalu Vidyalaya, to record a first innings win.

They were beaten by the strong Peterites. They have also played against St. Anne's, Kurunegala, De Mazenod College, Kandana, Ananda College, Colombo and Wesley College, Colombo, with all matches ending in draws. The match against Nalanda College, Colombo, ended in a nodecision.

Coming up are matches against St. Joseph's College, Colombo, commencing today, followed by Kingswood, Dharmaraja, S. Thomas', Royal, Prince of Wales, Moratuwa, Vidyartha College, Kandy and the big one, against St. Anthony's College, Katugastota.

Gangoda, who has led by example, became the first centurion of the season and helped his team record their outright win.

This elegant striker of the ball has scored nearly 350 runs and caught/stumped 15.

Arinda Bulanawewa, last year's acting captain and fifth year player, is a leg spinner who played an important role in his first outing by picking up four wickets. He is a hard hitting batsman.

The key figure and strangely the only colouresman in the team, Sachith Pathirana who went on to captain the Sri Lanka Under-19 team is certainly the best all rounder in the team.

This sixth year player has a few five wicket hauls with his leggies and is at present on National duty with the Under-19 World Cup squad.

Probably the best bat in the team, Wasika Munasinghe, dished out one of his best innings when he scored an unbeaten 152 last week against Kegalu Vidayalaya. Earlier, he missed out on a century by just two runs against Ananda College, Colombo.

Munasinghe, who bowls a bit of right arm off spin is also a very good cover fielder.

All rounder, Rajith Bandra, a third year player, is an economical bowler who bowls left arm medium pace.

A great deal can be expected from Romesh Perera, a former Sri Lanka Under-19 poolist, who is a fine all-rounder. He had a good game against St. Anne's, picking up some important wickets.

Roshan Jaleel, a second year player is another all rounder. Little Jaleel has scored over 200 runs and has picked up nearly 15 wickets this season with his right arm off spin.

Hasith Illangaratne, a standby in the Sri Lanka Under-19 World Cup squad, opens the bowling.

Kithsiri Wimalweera, who has scored over 150 runs and picked up a couple of wickets is a late middle order batsman like Akila Jayasundra. Leg spinner Jayasundra has two successive five wicket hauls and is currently in good form.

Dushan Ranasinghe, a dependable batsman and effective off spinner, is fast turning out to be a fine all rounder. The reserve wicketkeeper is left hand bat Mohamed Sajid.





