When the 11th South Asian Games commences in Dhaka, Bangladesh today it stages an event that has existed for more than two and half decades. The Games comes to the city that has failed to take the credit of hosting the first ever SA Games.

The South Asian Games, originally called the SAF Games or the South Asian Federation Games was to be inaugurated in Bangladesh. The member countries of the South Asian Sports Federation namely Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Nepal, Maldives, Pakistan and Sri Lanka decided to offer hosting rights of the Games according to the alphabetical order of the member countries.

For reasons best known to Bangladesh, they could not hold the games, but when Nepal volunteered to host the first edition, the SAF Games saw its inauguration at the Dasrath Stadium in Katmandu on September 17th 1984. The first edition of the games had only five sports; athletics, boxing, football, swimming and weightlifting.

As decided by the regional sports body, the second edition of the games was held in Bangladesh in December 1985 and it included seven disciplines. The organizers had decided to conduct the games annually during the first five years. But the next three Games were held once in two years with Calcutta hosting it in 1987 (November), Islamabad hosting the fourth in 1989 before the Games moved to the Palk Strait for the first time when Sri Lanka received hosting rights in 1991.

By the time the Games were hosted by Sri Lanka, it had grown to include 10 sports. At each edition, thereafter, except in the eighth edition in Nepal, there had been an increase in the number of sports.

When the sixth edition of the Games was held in Dhaka in 1993 there were 11 sports and 14 when India hosted the seventh SAF Games in Madras, in 1995. Although it was being held biennially, Nepal could not hold the eighth edition of the Games in 1997, but managed to host it in 1999 with 12 sports.

The 9th SAF Games which was scheduled to be held in Islamabad in 2001 had to be postponed to 2004 due to various reasons. It included 15 sports and Afghanistan was the new comer in the SA Games family. The name of the Games changed from SAF Games in 2005 to SA Games and the organization's name changed to' The South Asia Olympic Council'. When Sri Lanka hosted the 10th edition of the Games in Colombo, there were 20 disciplines.

When the eleventh edition of the Games unfolded in Dhaka, the number of sports reached 23.

Some call the biennial event a political showcase where the politicians of the host country use the games to build on their image. But many challenge that argument and instead have high regard for the Games. They view the Games as an opportunity for the youth of the region to come together in unity and test their sporting skills. Some have other ideas.

It is said that the idea behind having a sporting event for South Asian countries was mooted when representatives of South Asian Sports Federation (Now South Asian Olympic Council) countries like Bangladesh, India Sri Lanka and Pakistan attended the Olympic Committee Congress in Baden Germany in 1981. The SASF was formed eventually on 26 November 1982.

Although the Games have presented an opportunity for the regional athletes to come together and test their skills there has been very few athletes who have gone on to hog the limelight at the world sport scene. In the field of athletics which is regarded the main event of the SA Games, only Sri Lanka's Susanthika Jayasinghe has gone on to win an Olympic medal throughout its history. Probably it is a reflection of the standard of the regional sporting extravaganza which is also called the Olympics of South Asia.





