The Kalutara (South) Police in June reported the story of a young mother and her 14-year-old eldest daughter and ten-year-old girl twins, making a suicide bid due to abject poverty.

The fatherless children and their 28-year-old mother, Pathima Iyesha, had taken sleeping tablets after their landlord ordered them to vacate their humble dwelling for non payment of rent.

The six-year-old youngest daughter had been given sleeping tablets by a weeping mother. Iyesha's only son is at a childcare centre.

But the question at issue is he safe at the childcare centre? Will he ever be able to lead a normal life? The recent revelation of a warden of a Ratnapura childcare centre turning the institution in to a brothel, the attack on a six-year-old toddler at a Naiwala temple which caused her death has sent shock waves throughout the nation, leaving a big question mark.

Govt. turns blind eye

Contrary to grandiose plans, successive governments have failed to take tangible action to protect at least the children. Gross negligence on the part of politicians and officialdom and in some instances law enforcement authorities shielding wrongdoers have contributed to a pathetic state of affairs. Fortunately due to the untiring work of some police officials and administrators some of the influential suspects had been brought to book. The former IGP Chandra Fernando should be commended for taking meaningful action against the Colombo underworld although the same could not be said about some of his other actions.

Although parliamentarians formed an organization several years ago to protect the rights of children it has ceased to function. Although the state-run media over the last weekend reported the UN commendation of Sri Lanka for the protection of child rights, the ground reality is different.

Children defenceless

Our lawmakers, both in the ruling coalition and Opposition seem entirely indifferent to the plight of low income or no income people. They are clearly not capable of at least ensuring the protection of children and women let alone finding a negotiated settlement to the national problem.

JBIC funds wasted

While the majority of the population is struggling to survive amidst sky rocketing prices of essential items, the so called people's servants, the officialdom enjoy life at the expense of the taxpayer. Interestingly, they not only have abused the local taxpayer, but taxpayers of many other countries by squandering overseas funding by the international community for various projects. The recent revelation that the debt-ridden CEB utilized a JBIC (Japanese Bank for International Corporation) loan to acquire two super luxury jeeps worth Rs 44 million for two senior officials is most revealing. Did JBIC raise this issue with the CEB and Power Minister John Seneviratne? This is not an isolated case.

AG on UNDP project

A recent audit conducted on a high profile UNDP (United Nations Development Programme) project to establish a state-of-the-art ICT (Information and Communication Technology) system revealed brazen mismanagement of funds. A sizeable chunk from the funds had been squandered on consultants, experts, overseas training, specialised project reports/ workshops in five-star comfort and bringing down experts from abroad. The correspondence between Parliament and the Auditor General on the auditing process revealed that the Secretary General Mrs. Priyanee Wijesekera had not been responsible for the mess.

Speaker laments

Although Speaker WJM Lokubandara, during a recent interview on a live political talk show on TNL lamented the deterioration of discipline among a section of parliamentarians, some of them not even being conversant with Standing Orders and some behaving like a bunch of hooligans, he did not comment on several contentious issues. But to be fair by the veteran politician, he cannot be faulted for not commenting on specific issues not raised by the journalist who interviewed him.

UNDP quits

The UNDP's recent decision to quit the high profile ICT project didn't come as a surprise. While reiterating its commitment to support Sri Lanka, the UNDP has indicated that it wouldn't want to continue with the ICT project. The grandiose plan to transform the Parliament Complex to a high-tech facility has so far failed to meet its objectives. With the UNDP withdrawing support to the ICT project, the Parliament is in the process of securing the financial backing of another donor agency.

CPA,IPU accounts

The UNDP itself created controversy by charging overheads which were challenged by a section of the officialdom. Unfortunately no one seems to be interested in pursuing touchy issues. A case in point is the ongoing dispute whether to subject CPA (Commonwealth Parliamentary Association) and IPU (Inter-Parliamentary Union) accounts for scrutiny by the Auditor General. Although the Speaker declared that he was not opposed to the idea, the Auditor General has not received the accounts as yet. Parliament has received Rs 38 million for 2008. Despite controversy over the long overdue investigation by the Auditor General, the General Treasury has, in fact, increased the allocation from the previous year. Although a part of the allocation has been utilised to pay the annual subscription fees to the unions, a substantial amount has been spent to fund overseas associations and for visits by politicians and officials, in some instance in first class comfort. The allocation of Rs 38 million was made in the backdrop of Parliament receiving Rs 90 million in the three previous years.

Massive food waste

The startling revelation of massive waste of food in Parliament while many skip a meal a day due to high cost of living should have prompted a crackdown on those responsible for this criminal waste of money. Had anyone bothered to go through the AG's observations, the criminal waste of taxpayer's money would have been evident. No other public institution would have wasted public funds on food, particularly when the low income ground is struggling to make ends meet. Both politicians and parliament staff contribute to the food wastage and there is no doubt that anyone there wanted to put an end to this despicable practice.

Landmark ruling

The recent Appeal Court ruling that former Secretary General of Parliament Sam Wijesinghe had no right to receive two pensions after receiving the same for over 12 years was an indication of the total collapse of the system. Had the incumbent Pensions Chief K. A. Thilakaratne turned a blind eye to gross negligence on the part of his predecessors and a transparent illegitimate action by Mr. Wijesinghe, the practice would have continued.

Speaker on crossovers

The Speaker's recent assertion that there is absolutely nothing wrong in MPs switching sides, despite criticism that their decisions are influenced by personal benefits, perks and privileges highlights the question at issue however absurd it may seem. Lokubandara strongly defended their right to switch allegiance on a case-by case basis.

He asserted that members, irrespective of the stand of their respective political parties, should be given the opportunity to vote according to their conscience.

The Judiciary, too, has endorsed switching of allegiance, he said, underlining the importance of having the freedom to decide rationally on contentious issues. "People should not be shackled. They must change and in anyway it would be better than being restricted," Lokubandara who had never deserted his party, the UNP, said.

"There is no basis for some criticism levelled against them," he said, dismissing claims that crossovers were always inspired by financial gain. He asserted that the media coverage of crossovers, too, was primarily presented on the basis that anyone switching allegiance was corrupt. 'Don't think every crossover MP has taken money. That is wrong."

The Speaker strongly dismissed the assertion that his position was influenced by the fact that he, too, was a politician.

Lal Kantha slams House administration

JVP frontliner Lal Kantha some time ago revealed the status of the House in a hard-hitting letter, in which he attacked the top Parliament administration for waste, abuse, irregularities and a range of other shortcomings. Instead of investigating the allegations, the administration made a desperate bid to cover up while calling the Criminal Investigation Department to track down officials who may have passed on information to the JVP. Unfortunately the JVP had not pursued the matter although occasionally different MPs have commented on waste, corruption and irregularities in Parliament. Over the years, discipline in Parliament has deteriorated to such an extent that a section of the MPs had turned the House upside down.

COPE Chief Wijedasa Rajapakshe has been severely critical of the Parliament. He has openly blamed the Parliament for the collapse of financial discipline through negligence of the House.

Catholic clergy

The Catholic clergy should be ashamed for accepting the Speaker's Christmas bash despite preaching that people should be thoughtful of the suffering masses. Being a Catholic, I felt guilty to see the leading clergymen participating in an unnecessary extravaganza. Had the Speaker spent from his own pocket to celebrate Christmas by giving a free meal to over 3,500 people, we would not have complained. In fact, we, would have gladly accepted his invitation but when public funds are wasted on 'boru' shows, the media has no option but to zero-in-on politicians irrespective of their public standing.

The Supreme Court in early May directed that former President Chandrika Kumaratunga's retirement benefits package be drastically reduced. It was a welcome decision. The move to curtail retirement benefits for a retired President should prompt all political parties to review the retirement benefits, perks and privileges given to politicians. Nothing could be worse than giving a pension after completing just a five-year term.

Pensions

According to the Parliamentary Pension Law No 1 of 1977, a salary increase to sitting MPs would automatically result in a corresponding increase in former members' pensions.

The ongoing probe on the Mavil-aru fraud and the 'Benz battle' between the UNP and JHU which ended recently with Ven. Uduwe Dhammaloka, MP, acquiring JHU leader Ven. Medhananda's Benz revealed the absence of transparency and accountability. Unfortunately, some INGO and NGO gurus who preach financial accountability to politicians and public officials stand accused of corruption.

Kishali on INGOs/NGOs

The Deputy Director of the Law and Society Trust attorney-at-law, Kishali Pinto Jayawardene has been publicly critical of some INGOs and NGOs. Last August, she called for greater financial transparency and accountability in the growing NGO sector. In a brief but hard hitting speech at SLIDA organised by retired senior police officers association with the backing of Transparency International, she said that some criticism levelled against the NGO sector was true

There seems to be no difference between some of our politicians, officials, NGO gurus and a section of the media who have benefited from successive governments and of course SLFP National List MP Mervin Silva who stand condemned for his boorish behaviour and high handed action.





