The Island-NewsThe Health Ministry has laid the foundation to implement the Senaka Bibile Drug Policy,

Addressing the gathering at the opening of the new building complex for the Drugs and Cosmetics Authority (DCA) yesterday (01), he said the pharmacist Bill, which is awaiting approval of the Parliamentary Committee, the recruitment of pharmacology graduates, and the new building for the Drugs and Cosmetics Authority were all a part of the plan to execute the policy.

The essence of the Senaka Bibile Drug Policy (SBDP) lay in his recommendation to use the generic names of drugs. "Its true that some customers feel that there is some form of deficiency in cheap goods and consumables," he said citing an example of a paracetamol. "The Quality of the paracetamol is the same- be it Rs. 1.50 or twenty five cents." He said that Sri Lanka being a developing country could not afford to always go in for expensive trade names.

However private pharmacies have been given the approval to sell drugs under their trade name as some customers prefer to purchase the most expensive drug to cure their ills," the Minister said.

However the Health Ministry would endeavour to convince doctors and other health workers of the importance of using generic name in drug prescriptions, he said.

Indicating the difficulty in quality analysis of drugs the Minister said there were over 8,000 drugs available in the market. Drugs are not imported only by the government but also by the private sector individuals. Customs officers cannot do a thorough check on each and every one who enters the country. Therefore it cannot be helped if there are low quality drugs available in the market. The only thing that can be done is to control the situation with the hope of minimising it, he said.

"The Ministry has filled the requirement of pharmacists in the government sector. There will be no need for the minor staff members to dispense drugs in future as there are trained and qualified pharmacists in public service. However the Ministry has been placed in a dilemma when absorbing them into the permanent staff. It has to quarrel with the State Pharmaceutical Corporation and the National Salaries Commission. However the matter will be settled in the near future," De Silva said. "The only thing is it will take time as it is not something that can be done hurriedly like preparing a kottu roti," he quipped.

The newly appointed Director of the Drugs and Cosmetic Authority, Dr. Hemanta Benaragama reassured the public that there were adequate drugs in all government hospitals. "There are rumours and reports a rife that government hospitals are in need of certain drugs, but the truth is that even the smallest government hospital has the required amount of drugs," he said.



