by Prof. Wimal Dissanayake I have a journey, sir, shortly to go; My master calls me, I must not say no. - King Lear

Gunadasa Amarasekera's latest collection of short stories,' Vil Thera Maranaya' (Death by the Pond) deserves careful and repeated reading. It is a complex set of stories that deal with manifold torments of individual lives as they are inflected by changing social and cultural contexts. They constitute a profound and searching journey through the arid spiritual landscape that is contemporary Sri Lanka. As with his earlier works of fiction, Gunadasa Amarasekera occupies a border zone between psychological complexity and cultural critique, one purposefully re-defining the other. This collection consists of five stories, the title story, which is a virtual novella, being the most brilliant of them all. Amarasekera, in all his stories, deals unflinchingly with the sense of loss, both personal and cultural. His stories move between desire and despair with uncommon energy. If as Jacques Lacan defined, desire is that which is never attainable, then all these stories deal with the complexities of thwarted desire. To stay with Lacan for a moment longer, he talks about the imaginary and the symbolic, the imaginary projecting a wished for unity and the symbolic focusing on the problems of linguistic representation. In Amarasekera's stories, the conflict between the imaginary and the symbolic gives them their characteristic power and vibrancy.

Amarasekera's short stories shine with humanity, emotional precision, mordant social commentary, sad wisdom and poetry. The controlled lyricism, nuanced sagacity, the agonised conscience that never dwindles into narrative sententiousness, the marvellous social placement of characters that one has come to associate with his writings are magnificently present in these pieces. These stories resonate with a disturbed social awareness born out of a deep engagement with the traumas of contemporary Sri Lankan society. What is distinctive about these five stories is that the author does not want us to take his characters at a valuation that his evidence, emotional, cultural, political, does not substantiate. The quotidian strangeness of normality finds wonderful articulation in the stories contained in 'Vil Thera Maranaya.'

The title story is brilliant piece of imaginative re-creation. Based on a true incident that captivated the imagination of the nation, it can be read at a number of different levels of artistic apprehension - individual, cultural and political. I prefer to read it in its existential complexity that foregrounds the intersections of the personal and the social. Lalith Weeramanthry is a powerful minister; he hails from the upper crust of society. Having being educated at Royal and Trinity Colleges and later trained as a lawyer at Oxford, he represents that segment of society that had controlled Sri Lankan society for a very long period of time. What is interesting about Lalith Weeramanthry;s character is that he is increasingly weary and disillusioned of life. His deepening self-knowledge leads to worrisome agonies and doubts. He is a sensitive man, with an idealistic strain, and his deep reading of Buddhism has opened up newer pathways of thought. He is critical of the social class into which he was born, but is not totally successful in emancipating himself from its imperatives. There is certain disarming honesty and humility about him. He observes in his recapitulations that they are not intended to be the memoirs of an intellectual belonging to a privileged class, because he does not have the intellectual resources for an undertaking of that magnitude. Clearly, he is disillusioned with life and is on the verge of resigning his position as a cabinet minister. The enveloping political crisis serves to exacerbate his existential despair .As the story unfolds we are made uncomfortably aware of the fact that Weeramanthry, in a sense, has yielded inwardly to the decrees of fate.

Weeramanthry's growing self-knowledge results in a deeper awareness of his inadequacies, his inability to fashion a vision of life adequate to his ideals. He is cognisant of the limitations imposed by his social class as well as his inability to rise above the pleasures afforded by sensual living. In him, Thanatos and Eros are not only foes but also allies. The self-surrender to a kind of death-wish is the outcome of this mind set and the unavailability for him of a more life-giving scale of values by which to live and achieve a kind of spiritual redemption. It seems to me that this is the kind of reading of Weeramanthy's tragedy that is projected by Amarasekera in his short story. We feel that Weeramanthry made himself vulnerable to assassins' bullets as a consequence of a subterranean desire for death. In the troubled depths of his unconscious, there must have been a secret yearning for obliteration fuelled by the realisation of his inadequacies and the meaninglessness that surrounded him. It is this yearning that Gunadasa Amarasekera seeks to foreground and give shape to in his short story.

There is a tragic inevitability about the story that is reminiscent of Greek dramas. 'Vil Thera Maranaya' constitutes is a marvellous evocation of mood and ambience. Death is ever present; it hangs in the air. The dominant trope of the story is that of the mirage.(Interestingly, all five stories are constructed around diverse and dominant tropes) It is intimately connected to death. The following verse from the Dhammapada, 'Death carries off a man who is gathering flowers, whose mind is distracted, just as a flood carries off a sleeping village.', serves as an epitaph for the story. What is interesting is that the Dhammapada itself dramatises an aspect of this story – the conflict between motion and tranquillity. I once did a topological analysis of this poem and found that of the 423 verses in the poem, 120 contribute to the rot image of motion and 225 to the trope of tranquillity. In addition, the Freudian concept of the death-wish is also invoked in the story. Freud, in his 'Beyond the Pleasure Principle' talks about the universal death-wish as a universal desire to commit suicide. He observed that, 'The aim of life is death.' What is noteworthy about Amarasekera's story is that he situates the death-wish in a politically and socially charged context in way that Freud does not. This move invests this story with a tragic grandeur and social solidity. There is something genuinely sublime in this story in the way that it dazzlingly illuminates unchartable human motivations. There is a deep secret at the heart of this story, which is a mark of a classic. The American novelist John Updike once remarked that , a secret, once discovered, becomes a mere datum, whereas a quality of a classic is to hold its secrets in living solution and to defy, like life itself, perfect deciphering. This story preserves that quality.

The narrative structure enacts the theme of the story in an interesting way. The story consists of first person reminiscences as well as what modern narratologists refer to as the dramatic method. The ironic juxtaposition of the two narrative discourses invests the story with a dynamism and vitality that is wholly absorbing. The contrasting characters of Lalith Weeramaranthry, Madira and Susila are brought out through the dramatic method. Weeramanthry is world-weary, disillusioned. Madira is superstitious with a limited vision; Susila is shrewd and down to earth. Through their interactions, the tragedy of Lalith Weeramanthry's life is given dramatic focus. Gunadasa Amarasekera is keen to enforce the point that the tragedy of Minister Weeramanthry is not only that of an individual but also of a privileged class. What makes this story so memorable is the author's unrelenting dissection of human motivation and the superb evocation of mood and atmosphere.

The second story, Vishramikayakuge Jeevithyen (From the Life of a Retiree) deals with a moment in the life of Dharmasena Tilakaratne, a retired administrator and his wife, Wimala. Their son lives abroad, and that becomes the focal point for the disagreements between the husband and wife. Parental guilt drives the controversy between them. We are made aware of the ways in which pressures unleashed by contemporary living have a way of attenuating family relationships. Questions of globalization, generational tensions, and the ethnic conflict enframe the story. Once again the power of the story derives in large measure from the ability of the writer to occupy the psychological centre of his chosen characters and place them meticulously in their social context. The idea of dream, hallucination, which figures at the beginning and end of the story, becomes the organizing trope of the narrative discourse. The sense of moral confusion that characterizes contemporary living receives dramatic portrayal in this as well as other stories in this collection. Amarasekera succeeds in opening a window simultaneously on to the emotional lives and the social landscape that contextualizes it .What the story demonstrates is that truths are many and varied and that emotional truths are particularly so.

The third story, Sereppuva Katin Alleema Hevat Avasana Javanikava' (Catching the Slipper with the Mouth or the Final Scene), with its suggestion of a topsy-turvy world, deals with the narrator's reluctant visit to a funeral of one of his acquaintances. The coordinating trope of this story is that of performance – performance of the poor boys and girls, desperately seeking to earn a few coins at the bust stand, that ends in tragedy and the intellectual performance of the narrator and his companions that bear the marks of futile middle-class living. The phrase 'avasana javanikava' in the title lends validity to this observation of mine. The idea of the contrapuntal that marks his other stories is clearly present in this narrative as well giving it its characteristic shape. The acute social disparities that give form and meaning to modern social existence impinge on the diverse characters of this story in complex ways. The sensory minutiae that the writer evokes so well point to the layers of social complexity that that inform and mark our lives.

The next story titled 'Shalyagaraye vu Siddhiya' (The Incident in the Surgery) explores the social disparities within the context of a hospital setting. It deals with three doctors, Seneviratne, Karunasena, Abeysinghe, and a labourer named Somaweera Dissanayake, who was once a school acquaintance of Dr. Abeysinghe. The trope of the ladder, which was also the dominant trope in one of his earlier novels, informs the narrative, radiating pathways of social meaning. The sharpness of social apprehension that figures so prominently in the earlier stories once again works to great advantage and human passions are represented with precision and discrimination. The story, as in his some of his earlier works, focuses on facets of the dismaying history of national failure.

The last story in this collection is called 'Mahallekuge Sihina Lokaya' (An Old Man's Dream World) and reconfigures poignantly the instabilities and ambivalences of selfhood, of memory, of introspection, as the past and the present intermingle in an uneasy union The protagonist of the story is a seventy five year old bachelor who falls into reveries about Sirima with whom he was once in love and is now married to a wealthy businessman. He has become a mental patient, and the report of the psychologist says that due to inadequate socialisation his emotional life had become stagnant after a certain period in his life. An old man's reveries of young love is a common enough experience in literature. However, what gives particular poignancy to this story is the author's uncanny ability to place his characters in well mapped social contexts and allow them to define the flow of individual passions and modes of sensibility.

Taken as a whole, these five stories by Gunadasa Amrasekera, which are both realistic and symbolic, take us into emotional and cultural territories that are imbued with deep political significances. We are challenged and transformed by them in interesting ways. As a writer of fiction, Amarasekera has always succeeded in setting in motion an interflow between the personal and social, cultural and political, local and global that .has the effect of forwarding our social understanding and compelling us to confront our darker impulses, both individual and social. The stories contained in this new volume combine an imaginative richness, a well calibrated social density and an intellectual gravitas that are rare in modern Sinhala fiction. He avoids the willfully windy and the restrictively parsimonious; his style is a model of mature intensity. In his stories, life, art and language are reconfigured into a newer vitality.

Through his short stories, Amarasekera holds up for criticism failures and deficiencies and blond-spots in our society. The feeling that drives these stories can best be described by the oxymoron 'angry compassion'. He is never cynical or aridly sceptical and his critique grows out of a profound empathy with indigenous culture. After all, as literary theorists tell us, we deconstruct best that we love most. In this collection, as indeed in his earlier works, one perceives a pervasive critical humanism at work. This is very significant in that at a time when humanism has been reduced and vilified into a smear-word, Gunadasa Amarasekera is strenuously seeking to re-possess the multiple valences of this term through his creative writings. In fashioning his stories, Amarasekera has not felt the need to inject doses of magic realism to animate reality or to stamp it with a fashionable seal of approval because the reality that he encounters and narrates is magical enough.

Theoretically speaking, Amarasekera's newest collection of stories opens up an interesting pathway of inquiry into the interplay between globalization and nationhood and the salience of the concept of experience in understanding the dynamic set in motion by them. The word experience has generated much discussion in recent times among intellectuals of different stripes. The post-phenomenological trend in recent times has sought to devalue the concept of experience as being ideologically suspect, a product of discourse and irrelevant to contemporary theoretical discussions. The work of such scholars as Derrida, Lyotard, Althusser tends to reinforce this point. The writings of Foucault and Bataille tend to adopt a position in between, while Barthes and de Certeau underline the importance of experience. It is Lyotard's belief that experience is in terminal crisis and that it is being constantly undermined by the forces of techno-science, the mass life of the metropolis, and the absence of a sense of temporal direction, resulting in retrospective memory. Critics like Raymond Williams see the value of the concept of experience while being sensitive to its fraught nature. Williams expresses the view that experience involves an appeal to the whole consciousness, the whole being, as against dependence on a more specialised or more restricted faculties. Therefore, it is a part of that general movement which underlies the growth of culture. According to Williams, the strength of this appeal to wholeness, against forms of thought which would exclude certain forms of consciousness as being merely personal or emotional, is evident. It is my conviction that, despite all its drawbacks and ambivalences, the concept of experience can be used productively in the understanding of the role and function of culture in a rapidly globalizing world. The way Gunadasa Amarasekera focuses on the centrality of experience in his sensitively constructed stories enables us to re-focus on the concept of experience in a fruitful way.

Another aspect of Amarasekera's creative endeavour that merits close attention is the way in which he calls attention to the cultural contours of nationhood. In contemporary writings on globalization, there is a tendency to brush off the nation-state all too hastily as if it did not have a function in the modern world. One has only to examine the various flash-points in the world to realise the importance that the nation holds in the social imaginary of people. Even astute observers like Arjun Appadurai believe that the global economy, with its disjunctive flows, serves to undermine the hegemony of the nation-state and move in the direction of post-nationalism. John Tomlinson states that the effects of globalization are to weaken the cultural coherences of nation-states. These are indeed over-simplifications. To think that hybridity and its associated practices have the effect of weakening the nation-state is to ignore the many-sidedness of capitalist globalization and to reduce its complex interactions to just one arena. Despite all the forces of cosmopolitanism and hybridisation, the experience of culture in contemporary society is still largely determined by the imperatives and imaginations, the perceived fissures and unities, of the nation. What Gunadasa Amarasekera's newest collection of stories does is to remind us of the salience of this fact in terms of achieved literary art.





