The Chairman of the Joint Apparel Associations Forum Ajith Dias said that if the exchange rate was allowed to be more realistic the industry could do without a stimulus package to help it ride the tsunami of the global financial crisis. The industry expects a 10 to 15 percent downturn in the global market.

"We have told the government we can do without a hand out if the exchange rate is allowed to be a bit more realistic," Dias told a seminar organized by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka on the global financial crisis and its implications to Sri Lanka's economy yesterday.

The government cannot allow the rupee to depreciate sharply so as to avoid raising costs of debt obligations and imports.

"We understand these limitations and are appreciative of the fact that these considerations have to be taken into account. Therefore we cannot expect the rupee to depreciate by 20 to 25 percent as some analysts have said," Dias said.

"However, what we are asking for is that the market be allowed to determine the rate and if the rupee reaches to about Rs. 118 to Rs. 120 to a dollar, this will help us mitigate the impact of the global financial crisis and help the industry sustain employment," he said.

Dias said these sentiments had been conveyed to the government and that there must be no delays in adjusting the exchange rate accordingly.

"Depreciating the rupee by as much as 20 to 25 percent will spell disaster but it will be equally disastrous if a more realistic exchange rate is not reached soon," he said.

Dias said the industry needed this adjustment immediately but is not sure the government would be able to deliver.

"The industry must somehow make them realize that they have to be serious about the exchange rate, and that immediate action is necessary. The government must make a decision based on hard realities instead of political considerations," he said.

GSP Plus...

Dias said the European Union will be collecting submissions on Sri Lanka from various sources to consider approving Sri Lanka's request for an extension of the GSP Plus facility after the government decided to distance itself from the process when the EU called for investigations into the country's human rights record.

After February 18, the EU will take another two months to make a decision and if Sri Lanka is to lose the trade concession it will be given 6 months notice.

"While retaining the GSP Plus facility is going to be a challenge we will have to face, we can still enjoy the facility till the end of the year.

"The only thing that has gone our way is the Garments without Guilt campaign where we marketed our garments based on ethical labour practices," Dias said.

The stimulus package

Dias said the government's economic stimulus package was still an idea and had not reached its 'blueprint' stage and hopes the mechanics behind the package would be announced this week.

The government proposes a 5 percent allowance to domestic industries if they can maintain last year's production levels.

"Our contention is that the only criteria for the 5 percent stimulus should be determined on maintaining the same level of employment as at September 2008 because this is the only sensible thing to do as turnover is bound to drop due to falling demand for exports and the biggest challenge is to sustain employment," he said.

JAAF have already shared this view with the government and Dias is hopeful it would be taken into account.

Dias cautioned that when the government finally roles out its strategies to deliver the economic stimulus package the framework should be one which is accessible and makes it easy for industries to make use of and not marred with complications and delays.

Utility bills

The apparel industry is also struggling to maintain margins amidst falling turnover as consumer demand for apparels drop as high production costs, such as utility payments and labour costs, continue to squeeze margins.

"The bigger companies will be lucky if they can achieve 3 to 4 percent margins this year but the SME sector will not be able to make margins," Dias said.

JAAF is looking at creating mergers and consolidations in a bid to surviving the year and sustaining the industry.

SMEs...

Order books are full until March but Dias said negotiations for summer (April, May, June) which would commence late February will give an indication as to how falling demand, job losses and closure of retail stores in country's of our major buyers would impact on Sri Lanka's apparel industry.

Dias said the survival of SMEs pose a great challenge for the industry and suggested that the government ease the tax burden of banks so that the banks could assist SMEs with their working capital requirements.

Maintaining growth...

Despite the gloomy global scenario, the apparel sector is committed to achieving the US$ 5 billion mark in export earnings by 2010.

Dias said JAAF was looking at developing markets within the region particularly in Japan, India, China and Russia through bilateral agreements.

The government is also pushing hard for garment factories to be opened up in the East with three expected to commence productions this year.

The US$ 3.2 billion apparel industry is the largest export earner and contributes the highest to GDP (10 percent). It employs 270,000 people and touches the lives of over 1 million people.





