Sri Lanka at Partnership Summit 2008 The Ceylon Chamber of Commerce, along with the Board of Investment and Sri Lanka Tourism leads a delegation to the Partnership Summit 2008, the flagship international event of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). Three Sri Lanka Government ministers; Dr. Sarath Amunugama, Professor G.L. Peiris and Minister Milinda Moragoda are expected to participate at this event, taking place from the 16-18, January, along with recently appointed Ambassadors of Tourism, Aravinda De Silva and Arjuna Ranatunga.

This year's summit is held under the theme 'Emerging Consensus: inclusive and sustainable development', and takes place at Hotel Crowne Plaza, Gurgaon, India. At the partnership Summit 2008, the limelight would focus on Sri Lanka when a reception, cocktails followed by dinner, on the theme of "Ramayana" is proudly hosted by the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce, the Board of Investment (BOI) and Sri Lanka Tourism on the 17th of January. The three SL Government Ministers are scheduled to participate at the technical sessions. The Sri Lanka Business Session takes place on 16th January while at a separate session, also on the 16th, Dr. Sarath Amunugama speaks on the "Role of Technology in Economic Development" and Professor G.L. Peiries will address the gathering on the FTA and CEPA.

Chairman of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Mahen Dayananda is also participating at Partnership Summit 2008. Secretary General/CEO of the Ceylon Chamber, Mr. Prema Cooray, speaking from Gurgaon said "This is a fine opportunity to showcase Sri Lanka to the Indian Corporate Community. We expect more than 1000 Indian delegates here in addition to several foreign delegations led by their leadership". Partnering the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce, the Board of Investment and Sri Lanka Tourism is SriLankan Airlines, keen to make representation at this event a success.

The Partnership Summit has become one of the most important international business events in India and aims to further partnerships, to build ideologies based on shared dreams and visions that bind societies together in our knowledge driven world. The Summit has helped enhance India image abroad by showcasing the Indian competencies and capabilities. The Summit has attracted names like Tony Blair, Prime Minister, UK; Goh Chok Tong, Prime Minister, Singapore; Alexander Kwasniewski, President of Poland; Romano Prodi, Prime Minister of Italy (1998); John Major, Prime Minister, UK (1997), Jiri Paroubek, Prime Minister of Czech Republic (2006) and various others.

The Summit brings together Heads of States and Governments, ministers, senior bureaucrats, academicians and CEOs. Nations, states, corporate and individuals network and strategise to tap the power of ideas and forge mutually beneficial partnerships at various levels. The Summit is attended by CEOs, Managing Directors and other senior people from large industry houses; Government officials and international delegates. A total of approximately 1000 delegates attend the Summit each year.

At the 2008 Partnership Summit, the Sessions Chairman will be Mr Kamal Nath , Minister of Commerce & Industry, Government of India with Mr. Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Chief Minister of Haryana and Mr Analjit Singh, Chairman, Max India Group of Companies, as Co-Chairmen. The Chief Guest will be H.E. Ferenc Gyurcsany, Prime Minister of Hungary.





