A decision on whether the UNP's new constitution should be implemented before or after the forthcoming local government polls, would be taken on Thursday, the party's Media spokesman Gayantha Karunathillake said yesterday.

He told a news conference in Colombo that the UNP's first Working Committee meeting since the recent annual convention adopted amendments to the party constitution, requiring elections to determine the party's top leadership, in the event a consensus cannot be reached, has been scheduled for January 13.

"There is a division of opinion on whether the new constitution should be implemented before or after the local polls which are scheduled to be held in March," he said. "The Working Committee will discuss the issue on Thursday. I am sure all will agree on the best course of action, in the interest of the party."

Karunathillake said that the Mahinda Rajapaksa regime had decided to hold the Pradeshiya Sabha polls first, while postponing the Municipal and Urban Council elections, until after the Cricket World Cup was held, because it feared a heavy defeat.

The Cricket World Cup was a lame excuse given by the government, which had realized that the masses, who have time and again been duped by its false pledges, were eagerly awaiting the local polls to deliver a fitting reply, he said.

Karunathillake said that the Rajapaksa regime boasts about transparency but its members who had voted against the budget in certain UPFA controlled local bodies, are to be denied nomination at the forthcoming elections.

This clearly indicates that the government only pays lip service to democracy while taking revenge against its own members who had voted according to their conscience, he said.





The Panwila Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary Damayanthi Wijesinghe recently said that the village of Panwila was in a remote area with minimum facilities and hardly any infrastructure development because the village received step-motherly treatment from the authorities.

She said: "The roads in the area are in need of repairs and as a result vehicular traffic is being hampered. Most villagers living in the Pradeshiya Sabha area lack basic facilities such as clean drinking water and we have brought this to the notice of the authorities on numerous occasions but they have not shown any interest in solving even the basic problems of the people. Very little money has been allocated for infrastructure development projects compared with the other Pradeshiya Sabhas though we have asked for more funds."

The Vice Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha S. V. Ariyanayagam said that the police had stopped the operation of a mini hydropower station in Elembiya as the operators had not obtained permission from the Pradeshiya Sabha, but they had resumed operations. "We should take steps to stop this illegal operation," he said.

The coordinating officer of the Sri Lanka Nidahas Wathu Sewaka Sangamaya, D. N. Singar said that there was a shortage of teachers in the Tamil schools in the plantation areas and there had been no principal at Vigneswaram Vidyalaya, Panwila since February and as a result it was in disarray, he pointed out.

The principal had been seconded as a coordinating officer of the ministry and he did not come to school now, he said. The Education Ministry had not taken steps to appoint a new principal.

The Assistant Depot Manager of the Wattegama SLTB said that the depot had not received new buses for the last 20 years. The depot was therefore compelled to operate the fleet by repairing the old buses. But the old vehicles went out of order very frequently and that caused the disruptions to the service.

Pradeshiya Sabha member M. Gunasekara said that the Wattegama depot did not operate buses on time because it did not adhere to a timetable. The commuters faced many difficulties because of the irregular manner in which both private buses and the SLTB buses operated. In addition, the Road Transport Authority in Kandy was without a chairman and the institution had been plunged into chaos.

The Assistant Planning Officer of the Pradeshiya Sabha R. K. P. Ratnayake said that under different government programmes and grants from the various ministries, the Pradeshiya Sabha had received Rs 1.3 million and 62 projects had been launched with the money and 90% of the work undertaken had been completed.





The three matches of the 18th Singer-MCA Centenary Year Premier League 2011 tournament scheduled for yesterday were washed out without a ball being bowled and Sampath Bank retained the title on their impressive performances earlier in the tournament.

Sampath Bank were to play Unichela at Bloomfield grounds yesterday while John Keels were to take on HNB at BRC. The game between Mas Active and Janashakthi was scheduled at Colts CC and after no play was possible in any of the three games, Sampath Bank, who collected 17 points were declared league winners.

Sampath Bank won four games, lost one while yesterday's game ended in no result and collected 17 points.

Mas Active, Unichela and HNB were tied with 14 points each and Unichela secured the second position due to their superior net run rate.

The Mercantile Cricket Association, meanwhile, announced yesterday that the Mercantile Knockout tournament was postponed after Sri Lanka Cricket (SLC) asked them to do so due to the upcoming Inter-Provincial cricket tournament. MP





The Durban Debacle

January 10, 2011, 12:00 pm

Part 6

by Rex Clementine

South Africa had found bizarre ways to exit World Cup tournaments after dominating early stages of the competition. Remember Sydney 1992, Karachi 1996 and Edgbaston 1999. On all those occasions they were expected to go till the very end, but they missed out and a slot in the World Cup final eluded them.

So when they hosted the tournament in 2003 there were lots of expectations. South Africa had won the Rugby World Cup when they hosted the event in 1995 and the whole nation was behind the Proteas as the World Cup arrived for the first time to the African continent.

The Rainbow Nation would have probably delivered the best World Cup so far, but their team failed miserably and had a sorry exit as the Sri Lankans inflicted on them an unbearable blow that resulted in a few individuals losing their jobs, including captain Shaun Pollock.

The background

Throughout the tournament and lead up to the event it was felt that some senior South African players dedicating the tournament to their deceased former skipper Hansie Cronje was a distraction. There was too much talk about Hansie.

During the campagin Jonty Rhodes fractured a finger and was ruled out of the competition and Alan Donald, at the age of 36, looked to be in the side more because of reputation than performance.

The Proteas suffered early defeats to West Indies and New Zealand and that placed them in a rather dicey situation and their cause was not helped by the fact that minnows Kenya had beaten Sri Lanka and Bangladesh and had received a walkover from New Zealand (who pulled out from their game due to security concerns).

Only three teams from one group would qualify for the Super Six stage and prior to the tournament it was expected that Sri Lanka, South Africa and New Zealand or West Indies would go through from Group 'B'. But after their impressive run, now Kenya had joined the fray and the Proteas had to win their last group game against Sri Lanka at Kingsmead in Durban to qualify.

Controversy

The game wasn't without controversy either.

Under pressure to keep their chances in the competition alive, the South Africans prepared a lively track hoping the Sri Lankans would struggle against pace and bounce.

It didn't impress Sri Lankan skipper Sanath Jayasuriya, who addressing the pre-match media briefing said, "a lot of grass in it and it's very unusual." The grass was trimmed on the day of the game and may have been left behind the day prior to the game to psyche the Sri Lankans.

Pollock, meanwhile, said ahead of the game that his side was keen to play the pressure game. "There are going to be times at the World Cup when it comes down to crunch games and this is the most important one for us so far. If you're going to win the World Cup, you've got to win the crunch game, that's what it's all about."

The Sri Lankan management, meanwhile, raised some issues with the ICC regarding Tournament Rules. They disputed the interpretation of the rule that separated teams on tied points and there was even talk of them forfeiting the game. The board sensibly cautioned the team from taking on the ICC as there could have been fines and disqualification.

The game was further spiced up by the fact that Sri Lanka's tour to South Africa a few months back was an ill-tempered one and to make matters worse, the strong Sri Lankans had to put up with 20,000 partisan crowds.

After electing to bat first, the tourists slumped to 90 for three, but recovered to post a competitive 268. Marvan Atapattu with 124 was the star and was ably assisted by Aravinda de Silva (73) as they added 152 runs for the fifth wicket.

Prior to the game, all the talk had been about how the fast bowlers could have a field day on that track, but it was the Sri Lankan spinners who were calling the shots with South Africa being reduced 149 for five as the wickets were shared between Jayasuriya, de Silva and Muttiah Muralitharan.

South Africa needed 120 runs with 20 overs and five wickets remaining when Shaun Pollock walked into bat. He had so far only sledged the Sri Lankans and not being sledged at. But this was Sri Lanka post Kumar Sangakkara era and from behind the stumps the wicketkeeper turned the heat on the under pressure South African captain. "Ah... Lot of pressure here for the skippy ah... Don't let your country down Shaun you know how it feels... Oh lot's of expectations here fellas... Oh man... The weight of all these expectations...Weight of the country chaps ....42 million supporters expectations depending on Shaun...

A 63 run stand between Pollock and wicketkeeper Mark Boucher evened things out and helped the Proteas to fight back and the pair looked set to ensure their place in the second round. There was a slight drizzle at Kingsmead at that time it was important that South Africa had wickets in hand in case the game ended early and the Duckworth/Lewis System came into the equation.

As the drizzle got slightly heavier, Pollock was run out. The next man in was Lance Klusener, but he wasn't the same player who had terrified teams in the 1999 competition. As the weather kept deteriorating Klusener managed just one run in eight balls.

It was evident that the match wasn't going to last the full distance as the rain got heavy and at the end of 44th over, the South Africans sent a message to Boucher that the score had to be 229 at the end of the 45th over, provided there was no further loss of wickets.

South Africa were 216 for six at that stage and the Sri Lankan spinners were struggling to grip the ball. Muralitharan conceded five wides, much to the disappointment of his teammates and Boucher hit a six off the penultimate delivery of that 45th over to get to the total of 229 that he had been instructed with. With that six, Boucher punched the air jubilantly and following instructions to the letter, defended the next ball without taking a single. But very little did he realize that he had been fed with wrong information.

As the rain got heavier, the umpires pulled the players out and then only it struck that the sheet provided by the Match Referee for rain affected games contained the on par scores and not to win and it slowly but surely hit the South Africans that they had committed one of the biggest blunders the sport has ever seen.

Former South African batsman Andrew Hudson commentating on television summed up the mood when he said, "42 million South Africans are going to bed tonight hoping it was a bad dream."

South Africa were eliminated from the tournament and Sri Lanka along with Kenya and New Zealand progressed to the next round. Pollock and the South African team management was criticized heavily and Pollock went onto lose his job.

Once again, South Africa had promised so much but delivered so little.





John Buchanan and Trevor Hohns, two men who engineered Australia's golden run at the top of world cricket, have put their hands up to lift Australian cricket out of the doldrums.

Buchanan yesterday said he wanted to be part of any review into Australia's disastrous Ashes performance this summer while Hohns said he would give ''serious consideration'' to returning as chairman of selectors.

Hohns, who held the position up until 2006 when he stepped down to pursue his business interests, said he could be a possible replacement for Andrew Hilditch should the chairman be axed.

''It's quite a challenge. If the opportunity was to arise, I would give it serious consideration,'' Hohns said, adding that he had not been approached by Cricket Australia.

''I am not suggesting that is going to happen or suggesting that I am going to do any better,'' he said.

Buchanan, Australia's coach from 1999 to 2007, said he would have no hesitation in being part of a panel to dissect Australian cricket should he be invited by CA powerbrokers.

''Of course. Anybody's that's been very much a part of Australian cricket and just seen the Ashes and over a period of time would certainly like to offer their assistance in whatever way they can,'' Buchanan said.

''My business these days revolves around those sorts of things, looking at organisations and working how they can better improve themselves. If asked I'd certainly be interested as to what context that review would be.''

He said the entire Australian system, and not just the national team, needed to be assessed.

''I think it's a real opportunity for Australian cricket out of the doom and gloom to see the silver lining and that is to make a review as broad-ranging as it possibly can be and as independent as it needs to be, so they get the best possible information, the best possible data gathered, the best possible solutions and recommendations put forward.

''There's a great opportunity here which has been accelerated a bit by the demise of the Australian team in the Ashes.''

Buchanan said nobody in Australian cricket should consider their positions safe, even coach Tim Nielsen, who worked under the Queenslander prior to taking the reins in 2007.

''I just think before anybody jumps to any conclusions, firstly CA need to instigate this review process and make this as thorough and wide-ranging as possible,'' he said.

''The right information, the right data, and the right recommendations and solutions - there should be a very clear way forward for Australian cricket into the future.

''I see it as a great opportunity. In the end should lay a very, very strong foundation for the future of the Australian team.''

Buchanan, who will ask for a fee if commissioned by CA, was guarded when asked to specify which areas the game needed improvement in this country.

Hohns started as a selector in 1993, taking over in September 1995 until resigning in April 2006.

Under his reign, Australia crafted a careful regeneration plan in a bid to avoid a repeat of the slump in the 1980s when a string of greats departed in quick succession and the fallout from the rebel tours significantly weakened the side.

Hohns, however, was ultimately responsible for some of the boldest and most controversial decisions in Australian cricket history.

He separated the Test and one-day teams in 1997. This meant Test skipper Mark Taylor and gloveman Ian Healy were axed from the one-day side, with Steve Waugh given the captaincy of the team.

He later terminated the Test careers of Mark Waugh and Healy, sacked Steve Waugh from the one-day side in 2002 when he wanted to continue, and eventually oversaw Waugh's retirement from the Test side two years later.

Hohns has views on several issues confronting the national team and domestic cricket but did not want to discuss those publicly.

During the Queenslander's 13 years on the panel, Australia won 85 of 128 Tests and 188 of 286 one-day internationals, surging to the top spot in the rankings of both formats. This included back-to-back World Cups in 1999 and 2003.

The future of Hilditch, whose contract ends after the World Cup, and that of Nielsen, will be discussed at CA's next board meeting on February 8. CA chief executive James Sutherland says the review will feature input from cricketing experts and those outside the sport.





Seen in this picture is the road leading to Bokotuwa from Malwatte close to the Wellawaya town. Today, it has become a veritable marsh because the authorities have neglected its maintenance for a long time.

The road was built during the Gam Udawa in 1992 and around 20 families are living in this area. The villagers urge the local authorities to rebuild the road as it is used by a large number of people.





The Government is expecting an increase this year, in the number of visitors, both foreign and local, to its National Parks, Wildlife Director General Dr. Chandrawansa Pathiraja said.

He told The Island yesterday: "We expect the number of foreign visitors to increase by more than 35 per cent thereby increasing the revenue by twice that collected in 2010. A large sum has been allocated to facilitate the visitors as well as for the conservation process.

"There are 21 National Parks managed by the Department of Wildlife Conservation. During the conflict period most of the national parks were fully or partly abandoned due to security reasons. The boundaries of the parks were not marked and roads and bungalows were dilapidated," he said.

He said the habitats were also in danger due to lack of water within the parks during the dry season. That was one of the main factors for the human-elephant conflict.

"We have started to improve the situation by renovating the roads, bungalows and constructing tanks for the habitats," he said.

In 2010, the Department earned over Rs.400 million, double the revenue compared to the previous year, Dr. Pathiraja said.

The parks earn the highest revenue from foreign visitors. The number of foreign visitors was less than 10 per cent of the total number of visitors in 2009 but in 2010 it increased to between 19 and 20 per cent.

The Department said that up to November 30, 2010 the highest number of visitors, 218,422, had been reported from the Yala National Park. That number includes 65,271 foreigners. The second highest number was reported from Horton Plains National Park which stood at 151,777 including 19,584 foreigners.

Pathiraja said that Udawalawa and Minneriya National Parks had become a major attraction. Last year, too those Parks attracted significant numbers of visitors but there were fewer foreigners. The Wilpattu National Park, which was closed due to the conflict had now become a tourist attraction during the last year as well, he said.

During the final year of the conflict only 13,739 tourists visited Wilpattu, including 118 foreigners. However, the infrastructure and bungalows have been renovated and the park expects to return to its true potential this year, he said.





Representing the Dompe electorate, he first entered Parliament in 1977 and was appointed Deputy Minister of Food and Cooperatives in the UNP administration headed by J. R. Jayewardene.

He later held the Cabinet portfolios of Food and Cooperatives, Coconut Industries and Energy Conservation. He was also the Deputy Minister of Power and Energy, Disaster Management and Indigenous Medicine.

Always involved in politics and a long standing member of the UNP, he represented the Gampaha District in Parliament up to April 2010.

He leaves behind his wife, three daughters and a son Harshana, who is at present a member of the Western Provincial Council representing the UNP.





She said on Monday (Jan. 10) that the duo was in charge of a voluntary Children's home situated in Anuradhapura.

The two arrests had been made following complaints to the NCPA by the school where the children belonging to the Home were studying. The complaints were made by school authorities after children from the Home fainted during school hours. The children were also reported to have sores due to the unhygienic conditions prevalent in the Home.

Dissanayake said the NCPA police desk had carried out investigations and arrested the Matron and her deputy. They were produced the before a Magistrate on Saturday (08). Acting Anuradhapura Magistrate Karunaratne Herath remanded the suspects till Wednesday (12) while banning board members of the voluntary children's Home from entering it. The Children's Home was placed under the purview of the Probation Commissioner of the North Central Province.

She said 19 children had undergone medical checkups. Eight children were produced before the JMO to be checked for cruelty and negligence. Dissanayake said that action would be taken against the two suspects and the board members if the JMO report proves that the children had suffered due to cruelty and negligence.





China currently produces more than 95 per cent of the 120 000 -130 000 tonnes of rare earths consumed annually worldwide. The demand for rare earths is projected to increase significantly if green technologies are implemented on a broad scale. The United States once was largely self sufficient in these critical materials but over the past decade has become dependent on imports. In 1999 and 2000 more than 90 per cent of REE required by US industry came from deposits in China.

The recent decision to cut Chinese exports of REE by more than one –tenth primarily to Japan, US as well as the EU in 2011 has compelled US to take up this matter with the World Trade Organisation (WTO) over export limits.

It has been revealed what China is doing on rare earth minerals reflects what it is doing on a large number of raw materials: reducing availability of supply for global customers and /or making purchases more expensive through the imposition of export duties ,export licenses etc. The objective can be to encourage investors to move investments to China to produce downstream products or to ensure low priced products to sectors in China targeted for rapid industrial growth.

REE are a moderately abundant group of 15 metallic elements known as the Lanthanide series plus Yttrium and often classified into two groups namely Heavy Rare Earths (HREE) and Light Rare Earths (LREE) according to the atomic weight and location on the periodic table.

The principal sources of REE are the minerals bastnasite, monazite, and loparite and the lateritic ion absorption clays. However world resources are contained primarily in bastnasite and monazite. Bastnastie deposits in China and US constitute the largest percentage of world's economic resources, while monazite deposits in Australia, Brazil, China, India, Malaysia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Thailand and USA constitute the second largest segment. Apatite, cheralite, eudialyte, loparite, phosphorites, rare earth bearing (ion absorption) clays, secondary monazite, spent uranium solutions and xenotime make up most of the remaining resources .Undiscovered resources are thought to be very large relative to expected demand.

REE were detected in Sri Lanka in 1914 when monazite containing cerium was identified in the gem gravels by the Mineral Survey. The first Government Mineralogist D.N.Wadia published a monograph titled "Rare Earth Minerals of Ceylon" as Professional Paper 1 in 1943.A copy of this document is not available in the GSMB Library and should be looked for in the Government Archives. Professional Paper 2 by D.N. Wadia and L.J.D.Fernando Assistant Government Mineralogist titled "Gem and Precious Stones of Ceylon" refers to REE as follows " Besides quartz and the ornamental stones, the gem gravels contain a number of detrital grains and crystals of the rare- earth minerals e.g. compounds of thorium, uranium, corium, yttrium, niobium, titanium, beryllium, zirconium, etc. In the process of washing of the gem-gravels these heavy residues left after the gem material is picked out (called nambuwas in Sinhalese) are discarded. This is a deplorable practice as some interesting rare compounds are thrown out with these residues. The minerals thorianite, geikielite, and some other rare minerals of Ceylon first came to notice from these discarded nambuwas."

A more recent research paper titled "The Geology, Mineralogy and Rare Element Geochemistry of the Gem Deposits of Sri Lanka" by C.B.Dissanayake , Rohana Chandrajith and H.J. Tobschall in the Bulletin of the Geological Survey of Finland 72, Parts 1-2, 5-20 have identified anatase,perovskite, zirkelite, zircon, Ce monazite , samarskite and fergusonite containing REE apart from other elements like niobium, tantalum uranium, thorium and hafmium. This research paper concluded that "Sri Lanka's gem bearing sediments , which are most abundant in the granulitic terrains of the southwest and southeast contain markedly enriched concentrations of high field strength and associated minerals such as zirconium, tantalum, niobium, hafnium and REE." It is also interesting to note that the paper has indicated that the above elements are more enriched in the Walawe ganga gem fields which is closer to the major tectonic break between the Highland/Vijayan series that is mineralized at Seruwila.

Although REE have been detected in the above study and numerous other research studies, no attempts have been made to identify what the REE are and whether these elements could be separated economically.

Out of the two major sources of REE i.e. bastnasite and monazite , Sri Lanka has appreciable quantities of the latter in placer deposits off Beruwala and Pulmoddai, Podavakattumalai, Nai Aru and Nilavali , Kudurimalai Point in Kalpitiya as well as scattered deposits at Tirukkovil and discarded gem gravels.

Bastnasite (Ce, La, Y) Co3 F deposits which is the major source of REE have not been identified in Sri Lanka. However this mineral is known to occur in carbonatites and every attempt should be made to carry out research at Eppawela carbonatite where the apatite and phosphorite minerals are concentrated in abundance. The leached apatite ore contains martite (iron oxide) with a very high concentration of vanadium oxide (0.21 per cent) and niobium oxide (0.14 per cent) and may be the target areas for bastnasite.Further the carbonatite detected at Seruwila should also be examined for bastnasite.

I conclusion, it is recommended that the GSMB in close coordination with the Universities should seriously embark on a detailed survey for REE that are becoming critical for high tech and clean energy technology as well as highly advanced defence systems. A 2009 United States National Defence Stockpile configuration report identified lanthanum, cerium, europium, and gadolinium as having already caused some sort of weapon system production delay and recommended further study to determine the severity of the delays.

Sri Lanka which has significant amounts of monazite should strive to obtain the appropriate technology is separating REE such as cerium, lanthanum and yttrium as well as thorium a feed material for breeder reactors to produce nuclear energy.. Further the Professional Paper No. 1 by D.N.Wadia should be studied to understand the other REE and research projects should be identified to assess the commercial importance of the REE.

The National Gem and Jewellery Authority (NGJA) should identify areas where large quantities of gravel are stockpiled after gemming and identify the minerals containing REE with the assistance of the GSMB and the Universities. NGJA should educate the gem miners to stockpile the gem gravel to identify REE containing minerals.

The Government of Sri Lanka should obtain the assistance of the Ministry of Land Resources in China to assist in carrying out surveys in target areas for REE.Assistance should also be sought from The Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (MIIT) in China on the application of REE for manufacture of high tech products.

The author is a retired Economic Affairs Officer United Nations ESCP and can be reached at fasttrack@eol.lk





The JVP affiliated trade union organization, National Trade Union Centre, which comprises over 200 trade union member organizations, will stage an islandwide agitation demanding the salaries of public, private and estate sector workers be increased, NTUC President and former MP K. D. Lalkantha said.

"We will mobilize all trade unions and have commenced discussions with many unions attached to the two main parties, the SLFP and the UNP. The union leaders of these parties are known for their treachery and betrayal of any struggle at the last moment for personal benefit. This is a well known truth among the members and lower level rank and file of those unions. Therefore, we have decided to talk to them instead of those leaders who have lost credibility," Lalkantha said.

The NTUC will hold a public lecture at the National Library auditorium on January 18 as the first step, he said.

The JVP said it would continue to fight for a Rs. 9,000 salary increase and called on the working masses to join forces to launch a massive trade union action to win the demands.

The government has proposed a Rs. 600 cost of living allowance and a 5 per cent allowance to State sector employees in order to overcome the growing unrest among the public sector for a salary increase in line with the rising cost of living.





Intel believes that the key to solving global challenges lies amongst the young people of the world. As a result, the Company has initiated a global program to effectively integrate technology and education to ensure that the youth is sufficiently skilled to face the challenges of today's world.

The Intel Teach Directors Leadership Technology Forum was recently launched for officials of the Ministry of Education in the Southern province of Sri Lanka. The forum was held in Unawatuna, Galle and it is hoped that by instructing educators and getting them enthused about the use of ICT in education, students too will become eager and comfortable about doing so.

The forum, which was attended by Zonal Directors of Education and other officials in the Southern province of Sri Lanka, was an introduction to the Intel Teach In-service Teacher Training program. The program offers teachers professional development supporting skills that have become commonplace in the 21st century.

The Intel Teach Program has proven to be the most successful program of its kind around the world as it promotes a student-centered approach which helps teachers to encourage students to use technology in appropriate ways for learning, creativity and communication.

Todate over 17,000 teachers from the Western, Uva, Central. Sabaragamuwa, Northern and Eastern provinces in Sri Lanka have been successfully trained under this program. Prior to introducing the Intel Teach program, the Forum discussed the present status of ICT in the Southern province of the country while laying out the vision for the future role of ICT, especially in the field of education in the province.

It is expected that by sharing this insight, the Forum can provide direction and guidance to educators while giving them possible options for developing lesson plans that are best suited for the students of the province. Speaking at the event Indika de Zoysa, Country Business Manager, Intel EM Limited, Sri Lanka Liaison Office said, "It is important for ICT to be tightly integrated with education in an appropriate manner. By launching DLTF in the Southern province, Intel hopes that teachers and educators in the region will be able to identify the opportunities as well as the available tools and resources to use ICT in learning and help them utilize them effectively. It is part of Intel's commitment to providing the youth with digital literacy which is crucial for them to succeed in the present world."

The Ministry of Education has also identified the need to foster ICT in education and has many initiatives which it has implemented to achieve this goal. Anura Dissanayake, Additional Director Ministry of Education and Project Director EKSP prior to the event said,

"We are pleased that organizations such as Intel are investing in the youth of our country by training educators on how best to integrate technology with learning."

The Additional Director of Education and Project Manager of EKSP, B. Jayatissa mentioned that the Intel Teach is the best teacher training programme they have received upto now as per the feedback from other provinces.

Independent evaluation of the Intel Teach Program has revealed that 91% of teachers who are participating in the program reported their students were 'motivated and involved in the lesson'. In addition, 81% of participating teachers reported that 'student projects showed more in-depth understanding' than comparable work.

Thus, it is apparent that initiatives such as the Intel Teach Program are effective tools in preparing young people of our nation to face the expectations of a technologically advanced world.





Ambalangoda: The Public Administration and Home Affairs Ministry has postponed the transfer of Grama Niladaris, island wide, within the respective Provincial Secretariat areas. The transfers were intended to be effective from January 2011.

This was in response to a request made by the Sri Lanka Eksath Grama Niladari Sangamaya to the Ministry, said Deputy Secretary of the Association G. Sarath Padmalal.

The Association had pointed out that if transfers were to be effected from January, the island wide census to be conducted this year would be hindered as present GNs had done the necessary elementary work with regard to the census.

If new hands were to be given those documents due to transfers there would be difficulties, the Association had pointed out.





Naoto Kan, Japan's Prime Minister, likes to cast himself as an 'Action Man' bent on churning out new policies to tackle the country's problems. And to his credit, one cannot say that Kan has done nothing since taking office in June. He has dealt with a crusty China over disputed islands, repaired ties with Washington, and dispatched a key political rival. Thus, it is not surprising that Kan has started the new year with a fresh, two-pronged initiative: opening up Japan to global trade and reforming the country's farming sector.

The prescription is apposite, since it would enable Japan to join the Trans Pacific Partnership (TPP), which includes Singapore. But Japanese farmers are a spoilt lot. Tariffs on polished rice, for example, are as high as 778 per cent. The farmers and their political allies have pooh-poohed the TPP proposal, so much so that it has been put out to grass.

Nonetheless, Kan should persevere, given the high stakes involved. A November poll found that 60 per cent of the country favours trade talks to boost the nation's flagging economy. Japan - which has long fashioned itself to be an economic leader in Asia - lags behind other powerhouses such as South Korea, which has sewn up a string of free trade deals covering more than a third of its global trade.

Prising open its economy is but one of the many challenges facing Japan. Kan's Cabinet is also grappling with chronic deflation, a rapidly ageing population and a crisis of confidence in politicians. By far, however, the biggest problem facing Japan might be one of mindset.

Previously, the Galapagos syndrome referred to mobile phones in Japan, which were technically superior but disconnected from the rest of the world's markets. Now, the same term could be applied to the country's general psyche as well.

As such, it is heartening that when Kan took office, he likened his Cabinet to the ragtag militia that helped overthrow the Tokugawa shogunate at the start of the Meiji era in the late 19th century. Commodore Matthew Perry's Black Ships might have deflated Japanese pride, but the resultant Meiji Revolution opened Japan up and put it among the first-rank powers by the early 20th century.

In similar fashion, Japan desperately needs another leap into modernity, this time via vigorous trade liberalisation. It was Kan's predecessor, the feckless Yukio Hatoyama, who had called for a "bloodless Hensei revolution" under the current era of Emperor Akihito. Kan needs only to be mindful of one thing: revolutions are never tea parties.









The number of people killed by floods and landslides increased to 15 yesterday. Over 820,000 people have been affected. The heavy rains lashing the country are expected to continue, especially in the Northern and Eastern Provinces.

The National Building Research Organisation declared a 24-hour landslide threat period, staring from 10.00 a.m. yesterday to 10.00 a.m. today, in the Kandy, Matale, Badulla and Nurawa Eliya Districts.

Deputy Director of the Disaster Management Centre Pradeep Kodippili said 823,008 people island wide had been affected by the prevailing North-East monsoon rains and floods.

He said that the majority of flood affected people were from the Batticaloa District, the figure being 480,139. Fifteen people were injured in the East due to flood related accidents.

Batticaloa, Trincomalee, Polonnaruwa, Moneragala, Nuwara Eliya, Anuradhapura, Kegalle, Kandy, Ampara, Matale and Ratnapura were the worst affected, Kodippili said adding that the situation had worsened during the last few days.

He said that six sluice gates of the Veheragala reservoir, in the Moneragala District, had been opened.

Head of the Landslide Studies and Research Division of the National Building Research Organisation R. M. S. Bandara said they had declared a landslide threat yesterday due to continuous rains.

"A majority of landslides were reported from the Kandy District," he said.

Bandara said 18 landslides had been reported from Gangawata Korale, Udu Dumbara, Patha Hewaheta, Harispaththuwa Divisional Secretariats in the Kandy District and six from the Badulla District.

Landslides had occurred on the Gannoruwa – Katugastota road, Dharmashoka Mawatha and Lake Road in Kandy, he said.

Bandara said that the causes of all those landslides were not natural and some of them were due to human activities.

Meteorologist Damayanthi Indiketihewage told The Island that the rains would continue during the next two days due to atmospheric disturbances.

She said thundershowers would occur island wide especially in the Northern and Eastern Provinces.

The highest rainfall yesterday, 118 mm had been reported from Batticaloa, she said.





It is reported that Parliament passed (hastily?) legislation to amend the existing Parate Execution Law. For those like me to whom Legal Latin is Greek, this law basically authorises banks to sell without lengthy court procedures, properties mortgaged to them by borrowers who subsequently default.

It seems that the amendment enables borrowers of up to Rs. 5 million to be exempt from execution of the law. By a strange coincidence, "Honourable" Members of Parliament are allowed precisely that amount as a loan for the purchase of their duty free vehicles. In a further act of generosity, it is understood that the monthly deduction from their emoluments has a ceiling of Rs. 5000. So an MP has to serve 1,000 months or 85 years to be able to pay back (Capital alone, if with interest - perhaps nearly a couple of centuries). I must confess that the deduction figure is unofficial and maybe, inaccurate. In the absence of official disclosures in such matters, what can one rely on but plausible rumours?

Leave it to our dear bankers to ensure that they are enabled to serve the Janathawa selflessly to the greatest extent possible!





Laboratory tests, conducted on samples of food and water collected from over 100 hotels and restaurants in the city, by officials of the Ministry of Health last week, proved that the majority of them were unfit for human consumption, the Health Ministry said yesterday.

Some samples of bottled drinking water were found to be unfit for human consumption and well past the shelf life.

The owners of such restaurants have been severely warned and the next stage will be prosecution leading to the cancellation of their licence to carry out their businesses, Health Ministry sources said.

Additional Secretary to Health Ministry Dr.Palitha Maheepala said he along with the head of the Health Division of the Ministry of Health and other officials carried out the raids last week and collected samples for laboratory tests.

He said the Medical Research Institute (MRI) carried out the laboratory tests and confirmed that so far over 100 samples were unfit for human consumption while hundreds of other samples were still being tested.

Dr. Maheepala also said that water for cooking and consumption had been obtained through tube wells installed in the premises of the restaurants. Furthermore such restaurants were regularly haunted by stray dogs while vegetables had been washed in toilets.





Pakistani player Salman Butt steps out of the car as he arrives to appear before a three-member independent Anti-Corruption Tribunal in Doha, Qatar, Saturday Jan. 8, 2011. Following an investigation by the ICC Anti-Corruption and Safety Unit (ACSU) and the publication of an article in the News of the World newspaper on August 29, 2010, the International Cricket Council charged three Pakistan cricketers, Salman Butt, Mohammad Amir and Mohammad Asif, with various offences under Article 2 of the ICC Anti-Corruption Code. (AP)

Cricket bosses have told the International Cricket Council (ICC) anti-corruption tribunal into alleged spot-fixing by Pakistan's Salman Butt, Mohammed Asif and Mohammed Amir taking place at the Qater Financial tower on Monday that the odds of guessing three separate no-balls in a specified period would be 1.5 million to one.

The Pakistan trio facing the hearing are alleged to have conspired to bowl deliberate no-balls on the orders of alleged fixer Mazhar Majeed — the agent of Butt. The alleged offences took place during the fourth Test against England at Lord's last August.

The ICC has described the allegations as the sport's biggest fixing scandal in decades.

The 1.5 million to one figure was presented to the hearing by the International Cricket Council (ICC) after being worked out by a statistician they have employed.

Earlier on Saturday, Butt spent the entire third day of the spot-fixing hearings being examined first by his own lawyer before facing what has been described as "a tough" cross-examination by the ICC's legal team.

As the tribunal continued into a fourth day, and with Asif and Amir still to present their defence and be cross-examined, of the hearing may last its full scheduled duration till January 11 after reports earlier claimed that a verdict would come out sooner.

Butt was Test captain at the time and he has since maintained his innocence publicly and more aggressively than the other two players and interestingly has sat to the left of the courtroom away from his co-accused Asif and Amir, who are side-by-side at the back.

In several interviews on TV and elsewhere, he has explained the presence of the money found in his hotel room after the scandal broke in the News of the World, as well as his relationship with Mazhar Majeed, the player-agent caught on camera claiming he could orchestrate spot-fixing within the side.

The fact that he spent the whole day being examined indicates the significance of his role in the proceedings and the part it may play in the final outcome.

One observer said the cross-questioning "had been a tough one, though that is something they would have expected."

The recent statement by Khawaja Najam, who was the team's security manager during the World Twenty20 and the England tour, but has since stepped down from the post, might be crucial in the decision.

According to reports, beyond the prosecution team to the right of the court is a glass box containing specialist UN translators, who have been key during Butt's evidence. But the language barrier appears to be responsible for slowing the pace of the hearing.





It may have so far escaped your notice that there is an onion crisis in India, but this thing is serious. Onions are the fundament of every curry ever cooked. Before the meat or the tomatoes or the garam masala, onions sizzle in the pan of 1.2 billion hungry Indians – and when the price of onions goes up too high, governments come crashing down.

Indira Gandhi was swept to power in 1980 on a cheap onion ticket. In the last few weeks the government of Manmohan Singh has been driven to a desperate quantitative easing in the supply of the precious bulbs. They have banned exports of onions to Pakistan. They have been freighting them in – and still the price of this essential nutrient can only be described as eye-watering.

"It is crazy," says one Mumbai housewife. "They used to cost 5 rupees a kilo, and now it can be up to 80 rupees a kilo. The government must sort it out," she warns, "or else there will be trouble." Already the opposition BJP has been out on the streets, wearing onion hats and fanning the flames of outrage.

I hope my Indian friends and relations will forgive me for lingering, in a slightly gloating way, on the onion crisis. I do so because just about everything else on the Indian economic landscape is so awesome as to make us British positively jealous. It is a mind-blowing experience to come back to Mumbai after a gap of

12 years, and to see the reality of India's boom. You arrive at a new airport; you are conveyed over new ramparted expressways and long sea bridges past a forest of new skyscrapers, and all around you can see the signs of money cascading, or at least trickling, through society. Yes, you have no choice but to marvel at the rather beautiful new $2 billion house of the Ambani family, a vast vertical hamlet for plutocrats with a design that vaguely recalls a snazzy Bang and Olufsen hi-fi stack.

But the Ambanis are not the only ones to have prospered. I don't think it's just the result of some Potemkin-style clean-up that there are fewer beggars knocking on your window at the traffic lights, fewer limbless mendicants scooting on tea-trays, and fewer people sleeping on the streets. Of course there is still poverty and squalor of a kind we find shocking, but everywhere you go in Mumbai you can feel the momentum and excitement that goes with 9.5 per cent growth per annum.

I have met dozens of Indian businessmen, who supply everything from most of London's electric vehicles to the software for the congestion charge, and they are full of an intoxicating confidence.

"We own your Jaguar cars, we own Land Rover, we own your steel – it's reverse colonisation!" says one man. If you were of a gloomy disposition, you might start to worry. Here is this great Indian bullock cart careering ahead – and here we are back in western Europe and America, still mired in the rancid politics of our recession.

You will find plenty of British pundits who will argue that the fall of Lehman Bros in 2008 marked a decisive moment in post-Cold War history. It was the financial humiliation of the West, they say, and following the military humiliation of America in Iraq and Afghanistan there is now an irreversible transfer of wealth and power from west to east. China and India will continue to rise, they argue, while Europe is tortured on the Procrustean rack of the euro and the Americans turn inwards and against free trade. We are entering a zero-sum world, they say, in which people no longer believe that a rising tide will lift all boats, but that one nation can get rich at the expense of another.

For 20 years after the fall of the Berlin Wall, the world was dominated by the logic of free trade and globalisation – and the sad truth about globalisation, say these gloomy pundits, is that it is now a bad word in the political lexicon. Well, these pundits may be right in their analysis of how people feel, but that doesn't mean the anti-globalisers are right. If

the world turns its back on globalisation it will be an all-round disaster – and especially for a country like Britain.

When you look at India, you see a middle class already numbering 400 million, and a further 700 million people in the process of acquiring goods and services that their parents could never dream of. Surely we can lasso that rampaging Indian bullock and get some more traction for Britain. It is a wretched indictment of Labour that Gordon Brown didn't come here for 10 years after he became Chancellor, and that Britain dropped in that period from India's fourth largest trading partner to number 18 – swapping places almost exactly with Germany.

According to my MP brother Jo, an India buff and former FT Delhi man, we are continually underselling ourselves out here, mystifyingly failing to capitalise on the advantages of language, history and culture. We still have the world's leading financial services, accountants, PR folk and advertising gurus; and if Mumbai is going to build a Tube system, which it badly needs, then why the hell don't British contractors and consultants get on out here and pitch for it, with the mud of Crossrail still on their boots? The best hope for the world economy is the consumerist energy of places like India, and in this uneasy dawn of 2011 the best psychological boost for world trade would be completion of the Doha round of the World Trade Organisation.

Why are onions so expensive in India? Because agriculture is the last unreformed part of the economy, creaking with middlemen and inefficiency. I leave you with this astonishing fact: a kilo of Tesco market brown onions is 59p in London, fully 40p cheaper than in Delhi during the recent inflation. It may not be practical to sell English onions to India (though I wouldn't rule it out); but with a world trade deal we would at least be able to sell the expertise in logistics that allows us to grow them so cheaply. We know banking, we know about universities, and we know our onions too.





The next Buddhist Public Panel Discussion will be held on Sunday 16th January at 10.00 a.m. at its Borella building on 'Constraints in observing the Five Precepts'. The Panelists are Asoka Devendra, retired Director of Education, and Dr. Kanishka Karunaratne, Director, Maharagama Cancer Hospital, with Rajah Kuruppu as Moderator. All are welcome.





The Finance Company is planning to raise Rs. 1.6 billion through an initial public offering (IPO) in order to recapitalise the company, fulfil a regulatory requirement and rewarding 'loyal customers for maintaining consistent relations' with the company through the financial sector crisis that broke out late 2008. The IPO rolls-off today (11).

The Finance Company is planning to issue 40 million ordinary shares at Rs. 40 each. The subscription list would be opened on January 21 and the prospectus would be made available from today (11), the Listing Division of the Colombo Stock Exchange said.

"The company has achieved stability and sustainable growth during the past two years under the stringent financial policies of the Central Bank and the management guidance of the Merchant Bank of Sri Lanka," The Finance said in a statement yesterday (10).

New deposits grew 47 percent during the third quarter of 2010 with at Rs. 300 million per month while 85 percent of its depositors had consented to renewing their deposits upon maturity. The company's pawning business grew by 173 percent.

Director/CEO of The Finance, Kamal Yatawara, said the company sees plenty of opportunities cropping up in the financial services market and was preparing itself to cater to the demands created by the expected economic boom this year.

"The first working day of 2011 was remarkable as we received new deposits amounting to Rs. 98.9 million. This is evidence of the speedy turn-around of the company and that public trust and confidence has been cemented," Yatawara said.

He said customers who had remained with the company and new customers who made deposits prior to September 2010 would be able to convert 10 percent of their deposits into equity.





The havoc created by the recent torrential rains and the lack of a depenedable weather forecasting agency is of serious concern to people of Sri Lanka. Most people have accepted the fact that our met department usually predicts the weather after it happens but they alone are not responsible for this pathetic state of affairs. The weather predicting abilities of our met department has been affected by the step-motherly treatment it receives from our successive governments. In spite of the protests by scientists and the met department, the government of Charndrika Kumaratunga gave valuable land belonging to the Met department to build the British High Commission. Even previously, J.R.Jayawardane gave a large block of its land to build the Chinese Embassy. A large open space is required to collect accurate data on the wind patterns and other met data and confning this institution to such a small area is not at all acceptable. Also, the ministers in charge never throught of upgrading its instrumentation facilities in keeping with the world standards. As a result, our met department has to work under trying conditions often getting the abuse of politicians and the general public in weather forecasting matters.

Our media, particularly eletronic ones have not played their role too in news related to weather matters. In foreign countries, there is a dedicated weather man at all televsion stations who is a knowledgeable person on weather. Data can be easily obtained from their local met station or even from the internest which gives weather predictions at least seven days in advance. In other countries, the most important news people watch or listen in the morning is the weather. In the UK for example, they will give the most accurate weather picture even by the hour of the day. They will say for example, morning 8-10 showers, 10-12 cloudy skies which clear by noon and no rain thereafter. Then people can get ready to dress up accordingly and also plan their daily routines. At least our met department and the news media should log into the world meteorological weather organisation's forecast which usually covers the weather for about a week in advance. I have found that the weather in Kandy predicted for this week has heavy showers till thursday and light showers for friday. Let us see if the met department can confirm this and tell the public about the potential dangers of landslides, floods etc.





With China, India, Pakistan and Singapore worrying over inflation, Sri Lanka is expected to maintain its inflation at mid-single digit levels ranging from 4 to 6 percent, a senior official of the Central Bank said, provided domestic food prices are controlled.

"We need to look at the sources of price increases. In Sri Lanka food prices accounted for 72 percent of inflation in 2010, the balance is from non-food items. We have seen some pressure on domestic food prices but we believe this is a temporary phenomenon," Central Bank Deputy Governor Dharma Dheerasinghe told The Island Financial Review yesterday (10).

He said domestic food prices can be controlled by utilising buffer stocks, for rice, and importing food items to control prices. "The bad weather has only affected 1 percent of cultivated paddy extent, so we should have a bumper harvest later this year," Dheerasinghe said.

He said if Sri Lanka was successful in maintaining food prices, the effect of global commodity price hikes on inflation can be contained.

"We see some pressure on oil prices, but it is still far off from reaching US$ 100 a barrel. The recent rains have resulted in a significant increase in hydropower generation, and this is a favourable development considering that 60 percent of the oil that is imported is for power generation, so we are bound to have some breathing space," Dheerasinghe said.

"We (the Central Bank) have committed ourselves to maintaining inflation at around 4 to 6 percent this year. We are not seeing structural and demand driven pressure on inflation, so our monetary policy is on track. The challenge is to keep food prices down and this is something that can be done."

Excessive consumer spending could lead to high inflation but Sri Lanka is not seeing this now. In fact, Dheerasinghe said there is room for private sector credit growth. "Economic gowth is the need of the hour and there is more room for private sector credit to grow," he said.

According to the Central Bank Road Map for 2011, it would be monitoring both economic and monetary developments before taking policy decisions, and would not be limited to adjusting monetary policy rates.





For a hooker to win the Trinity Rugby Lion is a chance of one in 51 years. Apart from slick hooking to get the ball out of the scrum for the scrum-half to feed the threes, he has to be robust in loose play. Suren Hulangamuwa was awarded the Lion in 1998 when he covered himself in glory right through the season as vice-captain to Prasanna Jayawardena of about whom Quentin Israel has said, was the finest fullback he had ever coached.

The only other hooker to have been awarded the Lion was G. Shanmugam, when he captained Trinity in 1947. He was helped enormously by props Frank Sirimanne and Noel Halangoda. Frank was also awarded the Lion that year in which Trinity won the Bradby 6-0 in the first game with the second Leg being scoreless.

Not even the crack team of 1956 which sprouted five Lions in Raji de Sylva, Wilhelm Balthazaar, Franklin Jacob, David Frank and Gamini Weerasinghe would go the extra yard for Mike de Alwis to have been given the honour. Mike, of course, went on to captain the country and we all know what a 'Tiger at the Gates' he was in loose play.

For the first five in the pack, the Lion is often like dreaming through baroque. So, it must be that Suren Hulangamuwa was made of sterner stuff of guts and glory to have been awarded the accolade.

Suren leaves with his family for Australia to seek better fortunes and we wish them success.





Benchmark oil for February delivery rose 72 cents to $88.75 a barrel late afternoon Singapore time in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract fell 30 cents to settle at $88.03 in Friday.

The 800-mile (1,300-kilometer) trans-Alaska pipeline, which normally carries between 630,000 and 650,000 barrels a day, was shut Saturday after a leak was discovered at a North Slope pump station, said Alyeska Pipeline Service Co., which manages the line. North Slope production was reduced to 5 percent of normal.

Alyeska Pipeline said cleanup crews have contained the leak, but the company didn't know when the pipeline would restart operations.

The jump in crude prices will likely be temporary unless the pipeline is down for an extended period, The Schork Report said.

"We don't believe the news as it stands is enough to push crude oil above the $100 barrier," The Schork Report said. "If production is reduced to 5 percent until March or April, then we'llchange our mind."

In other Nymex trading in February contracts, heating oil gained 1.3 cents to $2.50 a gallon while gasoline futures added 1.2 cents to $2.43 per gallon. February natural gas futures advanced 0.6 cent to $4.43 per 1,000 cubic feet.

In London, Brent crude was up 44 cents to $93.77 a barrel on the ICE Futures exchange.













RAM Ratings Lanka has upgraded Vidullanka PLC's (Vidullanka) long-term corporate credit ratings to A- while its short-term rating has been reaffirmed at P2. The outlook on the long-term rating remains stable. Vidullanka operates two mini-hydro power plants (MHPPs) with a combined capacity of 5.2MW, and has further invested in a joint venture MHPP with a capacity of 1.2MW. The Company offloads the electricity generated to the Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB), a state utility company which is the sole customer, the ratings agency said in a statement.

"The upgrade reflects the Company's improving financial profile and conservative funding strategy. Steady income and conservative strategy helped Vidullanka ease its debt levels, as the Company's gearing ratio ameliorated from 0.32 times in FYE 31 March 2009 (FY Mar 2009) to 0.24 times in FY Mar 2010 (end-September 2010: 0.17 times). Over the short-term, the Company's debt levels are expected to recede further as long-term borrowings pared down using proceeds from a rights issue completed in November 2010. Going forward, we envisage the Company's gearing levels to remain below 0.45 times, even after factoring additional borrowings for new projects. The upgrade also takes into consideration the Company's efforts to mitigate its dependence on its two main power plants. With regard to the new projects, the Company would only fund up to 60% of project cost with borrowings; the management's conservative financial policy is viewed positively.

Meanwhile, the Company's ratings are support by its sturdy financial profile, established track record, and favourable contract terms. Vidullanka's operating profit before interest and tax (OPBIT) margins improved over the period to 52.22% by FY Mar 2010 (FY Mar 2009: 49.47%) and further to 69.39% by end-September 2010. The wider margins were supported by greater power generation. This translated to better return on capital, which augmented to 30.33% and 21.04% over the same period (FY Mar 2009: 15.70%). With the Company also retiring debts using internally-generated capital, its fund from operations ("FFO") debt coverage ratio has strengthened from 0.73 times to 1.29 times. Moreover, with easing debt levels, the Company's gearing ameliorated to 0.17 times by end-September 2010 from 0.32 times as at end-FY Mar 2010.

Vidullanka is an experienced player in the renewable energy sector, having built and commissioned four MHPPs. Moreover, none of the power plants have to-date not suffered any major internal outages. In addition, the Company's subsidiary, Vidul Construction Limited (VCL) successfully completed the joint venture project on time. VCL is specialised in feasibility studies, designing, building, operating and maintaining power plants.

Under power purchase agreements (PPA) signed with the CEB, which is the Company's sole customer, the national utility company is obliged to purchase all electricity generated by the MHPPs over the tenure of the contracts; these PPAs have tenures of 15 years. The CEB has recently become profitable and we envisage that state support would be forthcoming given its systemic importance. Moreover, CEB has been maintaining a good payment track record with the Company.

On the other hand, the ratings are constrained by Vidullanka's dependence on weather patterns for revenue generation and renewal risks associated with its PPAs. Although all electricity generated by Vidullanka is offloaded to CEB, the Company's revenue is dependant on rainfall in the region. Moreover, Vidullanka's plants are of the run-of-river variety that operates without a dam. Hence, there is also some element of seasonality in its monthly revenues.

The Company also faces renewal risks, with its first PPA expiring in 2016. Nonetheless, we note the efforts taken by the management to diversify revenues sources through investments in other power projects; the first joint venture which is already contributing dividend income. The construction on the second joint venture project is already under way, and the MHPP is expected to be commissioned by May 2011. To further diversify its income sources the Company has diversified into provision of consultancy on mini hydro projects through VCL; this includes feasibility, design, construction, commissioning and maintaining of power projects. Moreover VCL is venturing into product development; as a first step company has now started manufacturing control panel required for the power projects.

Going forward, we anticipate electricity demand to augment at a faster pace, in line with the Government's vision to provide electrification for all households (only 80% of the population have access to electricity at present) and the end of the 3-decade civil war. Over the recent past, demand for electricity has been growing steadily at 6 – 7% per annum. Furthermore, the Government aims to increase contribution from the renewable sector to 15-17% of total power generation by 2015 from 5.5% at present. In this regard, the Company remains focused on the renewable energy sector," RAM Ratings Lanka said.





The Colombo Municipal Council makes a song and dance once in a way about unauthorised structures and hawkers blocking the city pavements. But, these concrete cylinders have been piled up on a sidewalk for days with a container carrier parked next to them on Bloemandhal Road, Colombo 13, forcing pedestrians to walk in the middle of the road risking life and limb. Forty-foot monstrous, articulated trucks could be seen occupying the pavement on either side of this vital roadway under the nose of the police. But who cares?





A Sri Lankan business leader has been honoured by India for his contribution to the advancement of business and community relations between the two nations with the Pravasi Bharatiya Samman award, the country's highest recognition for people of Indian origin.

The award presented by Indian President Smt. Pratibha Devisingh Patil to Deshamanya Mano Selvanathan, Group Director of Carson Cumberbatch PLC places him in an extraordinary group of eminent global citizens of Indian ancestry whose efforts in their countries have benefitted local communities and helped forge stronger ties with India.

Selvanathan is the first Sri Lankan to receive the Pravasi Bharatiya Samman award, presented at the valedictory session of the 9th Pravasi Bharatiya Divas (Non-resident Indian Day) Convention at Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi on 9th January 2011, 96 years to the day Mahatma Gandhi returned to India from South Africa.

Sir Anand Satyanand GNZM QSO, Governor General of New Zealand, another distinguished non-resident Indian, presided as Chief Guest at the Convention which was inaugurated by Indian Prime Minister Dr. Manmohan Singh.

Another distinguished Sri Lankan to be honoured by India was Sarvodaya founder Dr. A. T. Ariyaratne who in 1990 received the Jamnalal Bajaj award for propagating Gandhian values outside India, and was presented the Mahatma Gandhi Peace Prize in 2006.

Selvanathan, a third generation Sri Lankan citizen, was Chairman of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce from August 1996 to August 1998, President of the Indo-Lanka Chamber of Commerce & Industry from September 2006 to May 2010 and served as President of the Association of Sri Lanka India Economic Development from January 1994 to September 2006. In 2005 he was conferred the title of Deshamanya for services to the country by the President of Sri Lanka.

His current business interests encompass management of Carson Cumberbatch PLC, the second largest public quoted company in Sri Lanka with interests in brewery, plantations, property development, investment portfolio management, mutual funds, hotels and tourism. Mr. Selvanathan is also a director of business ventures in brewery, commodities trading, and oil palm plantation in Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia and India.

A past president of the Rotary Club of Colombo North, Mr. Selvanathan also serves as the Hon. Consul of the Republic of Chile in Sri Lanka. In his capacity as Chairman of the Indian Heritage Foundation he was instrumental in the publication of a 336 page pictorial record titled 'The Indo-Lankans – Their 200 year saga.' The book narrates the history of people of Indian origin in Sri Lanka.

The Pravasi Bharatiya Divas Convention is organised by India's Ministry of Overseas Indian Affairs (MOIA) and the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII).





The editorial of The Island Online on January 07 quite rightly pointed out that the current shortage of coconuts is not the outcome of something that sprang overnight.

Agricultural land, especially in the North Western Province, was known in the past for large swathes of well-maintained productive coconut estates. Come the 70s, and we started witnessing 30 to 40 perch rectangles getting carved out of them, with painted wooden poles demarcating the boundaries. The transformation was somewhat of a pleasant novelty at the time, but we are facing its repercussions today. A factor that contributed to the "block and sell" mania was that the owners of the estates found it more profitable to sell the land to a property developer, who in turn blocked it out and sold the plots to prospective house builders, than managing plantations and trying to recover the investment through the sale of coconuts. Ironically, no one seemed to think of the simple equation: no coconut trees = no coconuts, a point that would have been clear even to a primary schoolchild.

The Opposition Leader's protest rally on the coconut crisis, held in Colombo a few days before Christmas, was good drama. His female supporters brandishing large, fresh coconuts (wonder from where they managed to unearth such good quality coconuts?) certainly added colour to the images that appeared in the national media including The Island Online on December 26. Such protests sadly will not give the public their coconuts at a reasonable price, although the Opposition Leader, who has already sealed his place in the Guinness Book of Records as the leader who has led (misled?) a political party to the highest number of consecutive defeats at national, provincial and local elections, seems to be hunting for openings to link the incumbent President to the shortage of coconuts. The blame for the coconut crisis in no way can be laid at the foot of the President or his administration – all those who held the reins of power during the past 40 years are culpable.





England's Ashes series win on Friday was a triumph not just for a ruthlessly professional team but for the thousands of "Barmy Army" foot-soldiers who kept the faith through years of hurt.

For the fifth day of the final Test, free entry was on offer to the Sydney Cricket Ground. But after four days of capacity crowds, locals had no interest in watching England clinch their first series victory in Australia in 24 years.

The batsmen at the crease were two of the very few Australians present as about 15,000 English fans colonised the historic SCG, raucous as ever with a song repertoire ranging from caustic wit to chest-thumping jingoism.

From the Barmy Army's headquarters in the SCG's Victor Trumper stand, travelling trumpeter Bill Cooper played the "Last Post" in mock-lament of the death of Australian cricket.

"Are you Bangladesh in disguise?" the English fans chanted at the vanquished team.

Interviewed on the ground after Australia went down to an unprecedented third innings drubbing, England opener Alastair Cook was at a loss to explain a recovery in form that saw him crowned player of the series with 766 runs.

The Barmy Army English support had no doubt about the biggest contributor to Cook's run-fest, bellowing out for one last time a tuneful but unprintable rebuke of Australia's misfiring strike bowler Mitchell Johnson.

Cook, captain Andrew Strauss and other members of the victorious touring side each made a point of thanking the thousands who travelled to Australia despite the Aussie dollar's strength, which has hit the tourism industry hard.

In truth, the diehard supporters had all the more reason to come with the prospect of a long-awaited series victory for England in sight, as Australia endure a rare period of weakness after two decades of world domination.

"We're set for two days of partying," said Paul Burnham, a former British Airways employee who co-founded the Barmy Army in 1994.

"This is what it's all about: the battle on the pitch and the battle in the stands. It's a good battle between the England and Aussie fans, and then we all go for a beer together," he told AFP.

Burnham now works full-time in organising tours for the Barmy Army, which got its name from the Australian media, impressed by the fans' crazy fortitude during England's never-ending losing streak in the 1990s.

Julian Poulter, a 48-year-old company director who played for England youth teams as a teenager, is one of the expats who endured years of abuse from friends as Australia grew accustomed to crushing the old enemy in the Ashes.

"It's been unpleasant for so long. There was a time when I thought I'd never see another England Ashes win in my lifetime," said Poulter, who has lived in Australia for 15 years.

England finally regained the Ashes in 2005. But that was on home turf, so the performance of Strauss's men in Australia this time around is all the sweeter for long-suffering fans.

Nevertheless, Poulter is cautious not to get carried away.

"It's very dangerous in sport to give out too much stick because these things come around. The same applies to English supporters now. We should keep our memories long, not short."

The Australian media now are being just as damning about their team as Fleet Street was about England in the bad old days of loss after humiliating loss. But the Barmy Army still want Australia to bounce back.

"When we beat an Aussie side over here, we want to beat a proper Aussie side," Burnham said.





Nizam Jamaldeen elected President of Sri Lanka Rugby Referees' Society

January 10, 2011, 10:40 pm

by M. Farook Lantra

The 54th Annual General Meeting of the Sri Lanka Rugby Referees' Society was held at the CR & FC auditorium on January 9.

Nizam Jamaldeen was elected President uncontested while Vipula Dharmadasa and Anil Jayasingha were elected Vice Presidents.

Jamaldeen succeeds Dilroy Fernando for a two year period. Among those present at the meeting were Tony Amith, S. W. Chang and Vimal Perera.

Outgoing President Dilroy Fernando thanked all referees who had supported him and done an excellent job during his tenure. He was lavish in his praise of Vipula Dharmadasa, Tony Amith, Vimal Perera, Vimal Senanayaka and Shamrath Fernando. Nizam Jamaldeen also spoke and promised the best from the referees.

Dilroy Fernando and Nizam Jamaldeen the two top referees in the island were named by the IRB to officiate at the 2009 Rugby Sevens World Cup.

ASP Nizam Jamaldeen played as fly half for Isipatana College in 1983 and '84 and played for the Police as a fly half from 1986 to 1995, leading the side in 1983. The highest mark that he set was the record score for a single club player in a single season which was in 1992, which surpassed the earlier record of 202 points by teammate, the late Charles Wijewardena.

In the international arena, he represented Sri Lanka in five Asiads and also at the Singapore, Hong Kong and Dubai Sevens. He has also served as touch judge at the International Rugby Board World Cup Qualifying encounters in Doha, Kuala Lumpur and Mumbai.

During his speech, Jamaldeen whole heartedly thanked Air Chief Marshal Roshan Gunathilaka (President, SLRFU) for the encouragement and support given to him and the Inspector General of Police.





Prosecutors in the German city of Paderborn have charged three suspects including a Sri Lankan in a brutal attack nine months ago on a Syrian Orthodox bishop, they announced on Sunday, a news story filed from Paderborn, Germany by the M&C web news portal said.

A 36-year-old Syrian, as well as two 33-year-olds from Turkey and Sri Lanka, are accused of attempted murder, robbery and assault.

Bishop Julius Hanna Aydin was attacked in his office last April. The perpetrators gagged and hit the cleric, who is affiliated with the Warburg monastery, and cut off his long white beard.





Of the six options offered by the Srikrishna Committee after 11 months of consultations on granting statehood for Telangana with the political party leaders and people of Andhra Pradesh, the sixth, described by Mr. Justice BN Srikrishna, former Supreme Court judge who headed the committee, as "the best way forward," is the least acceptable to the people and political leaders of the Telangana region, including those of the Congress. The fifth option, "bifurcation of the State (Andhra Pradesh) into Telangana and Seemandhra (comprising coastal Andhra and Rayalaseema regions) as per the existing boundaries with Hyderabad serving as Telangana's capital, and Seemandhra having a new capital," is the only way forward if the Congress is keen on putting an end to the shot-gun wedding of the erstwhile States of Andhra with its capital in Kurnool and Hyderabad State with Hyderabad City as capital.

Mr Justice Srikrishna described the fifth option as the second best and the sixth as the best, which said, "keep the State united by simultaneously providing constitutional/statutory measures for the socio-economic development and political empowerment of Telangana by creating a Telangana Regional Council." The first option listed in the 461-page report is "maintaining status quo," not materially different from the sixth. The committee found the continuing demand for statehood for Telangana had some merit and was not unjustified. It also agreed that a separate Telangana would satisfy a large majority of people from the region. The committee found no takers for its first option, and the second, third and fourth options either impractical or unacceptable. The second option advocates bifurcation of the State into Seemandhra and Telangana with Hyderabad becoming a Union Territory, and the two States developing their own capitals; the third bifurcating of the state into Rayala-Telengana and coastal Andhra with Hyderabad remaining an integral part of the former. The fourth option is a replay of the second with some semantic refinement.

Even the lone workable option is loaded with impractical riders: it should be considered only "if unavoidable and all other regions agree." Andhra and Rayalaseema would never willingly acquiesce to part with the goose that lays golden eggs. Instead of seeking the sentiments of Andhra and Rayalaseema people, the Srikrishna Committee should have concentrated its efforts on gauging the feelings of the long-suffering people of Telangana who were tricked into cohabiting with the Andhras. With a history of more than 400 years as Hyderabad State, ruled by the Nizams before independence and after the army take-over of the territory in 1948 (the Congress government of the day euphemistically called it 'police action'), it remained a separate state of the Indian Union till 1956.

Potti Sriramulu, who had to fast unto death to achieve his goal of a state for the Telugu-speaking people, wanted the bifurcation of the erstwhile Madras Province by detaching coastal Andhra and Rayalaseema regions from it He never coveted Hyderabad. Andhra State came into being in 1952, after the death of Sriramulu, with Kurnool as its capital, when the people of Telangana were enjoying separate statehood under the name of Hyderabad with Hyderabad City as its capital. After the states reorganisation on linguistic basis in 1956, the people of Hyderabad readily allowed the Kannada-spoken areas to cede to Karnataka and the Marathi-spoken areas to cede to Maharashtra but never opted to merge with Andhra to form the composite Andhra Pradesh. It was a forced merger brought about by the Congress leadership in Delhi with a series of false promises. None of the promises was honoured.

The Fazal Commission, as the second states reorganisation commission was called, in fact, expressed serious concern about the merger of Hyderabad with Andhra to form the single Telugu-speaking state of Andhra Pradesh. The Hyderabadi Telugu is a derivative of the Telugu spoken in Seemandhra (a Srikrishna Committee coinage) with a liberal sprinkling of Deccani Urdu, Kannada and Marathi. Telugu cinema made fun of their Telangana coevals and invariably portrayed them as villains and Andhras as heroes. The commission recommended continuation of the two states till the 1961 general election and consider merger only if the legislatures opted for such a union. Egged on by the Andhra leaders and innocent of the ground reality, the Congress leadership solemnised the merger in 1956. Contrary to popular misconception that separation would make Telangana a small unviable state, it is larger than Assam, the seven North-Eastern states, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Goa, Haryana, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir.

Within 13 years of the formation of Andhra Pradesh, the first major agitation for the separation of Telangana was launched under the leadership of Marri Channa Reddy. As the Congress refused to budge, he floated the Telangana Praja Samithi and swept the polls in the 1971 election from the Telangana region to both the Assembly and the Lok Sabha. Sensing the mood of the people, Indira Gandhi made promises with no intention of keeping them, persuaded Reddy to merge his TPS with the Congress by offering him the plum post of Governor of UP and kept him away from the scene of action. The agitation fizzled out as Brahmananda Reddy, an Andhrite, was replaced by PV Narasimha Rao, a Telanganite, as Chief Minister. The separatist agitation revived in less than 12 months forcing Rao to put in his papers and the state was brought under President's rule.

The emergence of the Telugu Desam Party under the leadership of NT Rama Rao on the promise of restoring Telugu self-respect, badly bruised by the Congress, in the early 1980s, took the sting out of the separatists' agitation, albeit temporarily. But it raised its head again before long, forcing the TDP to be one of the staunch votaries of the separatist movement. The track record of the BJP, with whom the TDP coalesced, is no different from that of the Congress. In the 1998 and '99 Lok Sabha elections, the BJP slogan was "one vote, two states." During its six years in office, it forgot all about its promise.

Sonia Gandhi was one up on Indira Gandhi in fooling the people of Telangana. During the 2004 Lok Sabha election, she was seen at the hustings in the Telangana region sporting a pink scarf of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi and sharing a platform with its leader, K. Chandrasekhara Rao, whose single-point programme was the reversal of the forced merger of his region with Andhra. The alliance worked well for the Congress: it was able to return to power both in Delhi and in the state after a lapse of more than eight years. The TRS leader was led up the garden path. In its 2009 election manifesto, the Congress was more circumspect. It promised separate statehood for Telangana through a process of "consultations and consensus," knowing fully well there will be no consensus. Consultations there were aplenty. It was only after consultations in the Congress core committee, presided over by Sonia Gandhi, Union Home Minister P. Chidambaram made his midnight announcement on 9 December, 2009, that the process of forming the state of Telangana would be initiated and an appropriate resolution moved in the Andhra Pradesh Assembly. Although Parliament was in session then, he chose to make this historic announcement outside the House, and that too at an unearthly hour. The joy of the people of Telangana on hearing Chidambaram's good news was shortlived.

Faced with the backlash of Seemandhra politicians, particularly MPs and MLAs who threatened to resign en masse, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh made his famous volte-face two days later saying the government was in no hurry to bifurcate Andhra Pradesh. It was in keeping with the the Prime Minister's 'no hurry' statement that the Srikrishna Committee was appointed. Mr. Justice Srikrishna, unlike heads of similar committees like the one on Babari Masjid demolition, stuck to his 12-month deadline and submitted his voluminous report on 30 December. There is nothing new in the report that the stakeholders are not aware of. Chidambaram tried to squeeze more time for the day of reckoning by convening a meeting of eight concerned parties just to release the report. The parties that matter saw through his game and abstained. The time to act on the report is now and the Congress must realise that it cannot fool all the people all the time. (ANN-The Statesman)

The writer is a veteran journalist and former Director of The Statesman Print Journalism School





Telegraph View: Donors will need to make good on their pledges of aid to the new state.

Northern and southern Sudan have fought each other for nearly 40 years since the country gained independence from Britain in 1956. Yesterday, the southerners began to take part in a week-long referendum on whether to secede. The majority are expected to say yes, the one doubt being whether turnout will pass the 60 per cent threshold set by an internationally mediated peace agreement in 2005. If it does, Africa will be on the way to acquiring its 54th state. It will be one of the poorest, but at least it will be free of the thuggish Islamist regime in the north.

The 2005 agreement expires in July, by which time it is hoped that north and south will have completed arrangements for dividing the continent's largest state into two. Mutual dependence over oil should encourage compromise: the south has most of the reserves, the north has the pipeline to a refinery and port on the Red Sea. Other unresolved matters are the position, post-independence, of southerners in the north, and vice versa; demarcation of the border; and the future of Abyei, a small, oil-rich area which is due to hold a separate referendum on whether to join north or south.

Donors will need to make good on their pledges of aid to the new state, which will have to build its institutions and infrastructure almost from scratch. And Khartoum must cease support for groups hostile to the ruling Sudan People's Liberation Movement, whether tribal minorities or the Uganda-based Lord's Resistance Army. The north, at any rate, has enough problems of its own, notably rebellion in Darfur, which southern independence is likely to revive. Its president, Omar al-Bashir, was indicted last year by the International Criminal Court for genocide. Small wonder that the southerners want their independence.





The Institute of Hairdressers and Beauticians (IHB) was launched with the aim of providing enhanced opportunities for local hairdressers, beauticians and barbers to obtain an internationally recognised qualification in their preferred language, while ensuring they maintain skills standards required by the industry. Formed by the Sri Lanka Association of Hairdressers and Beauticians (SLAHAB), the institute is accredited to the World Federation of Hairdressers (OMC).

With the hairdressing and beauty therapy industry growing at a rapid pace, the need for professional and qualified hairdressers is vital. Although many posses the practical knowledge of the subject, they lack proper qualifications. Further, the skills standards education of hairdressing and beauty therapy is not streamlined to the desired standards recognised internationally.

Therefore, IHB seeks to fill this void by introducing skills standards, while reaching out to a wider segment of the society. The primary function of the Institute will be to conduct hairdressing and beauty therapy examinations in English, Sinhala and Tamil, which are recognised both nationally and internationally. The institute will set standards on par with international IVQ, Pivot Point, OMC and EU standards.

"The vision of the institute is to upgrade the quality and the knowledge of hairdressers and beauticians in this country and give them other opportunities such as gaining foreign employment and pave the way for them to become confident hairdressers," says Rayaka Jayasuriya, President of SLAHAB.

In this endeavor, IHB will be supported by City & Guilds, the UK based education institute. "Education is fundamental in every profession," states Mufthy Hashim, Regional Manager - South Asia, City & Guilds. He further added, "I am glad to support this endeavor of IHB because it is something required. In terms of education, Sri Lanka has a huge reputation in the region."

IHB will be tasked with preparing text books, curriculum and other study material, constantly updating and maintaining skills standards. The study material will be available in all three languages.

The institute will determine examination dates, prepare and assess examinations and issue certificates. A working committee consisting of key personnel and leading members of the industry will be formed to prepare papers and conduct assessments. Theory exams will be held in June and December, while the practical exams will take place in July and January. In practical exams students will be assessed not just on their ability to perform the given task, but also on their presentation and communication skills, their attention to health and safety and customer care.

The institute will also act as a training centre for both trainers and academics and establish a library. Annual teacher training will be conducted by foreign resource personnel.

While practicing hairstylists and barbers can study on their own for the examinations, students could join any other recognised institute to follow the programme. They could study for the IHB qualifications, while obtaining qualifications of their respective training centre as well as sitting for the City & Guilds examinations with no additional study.

A non-profit institute, IHB is headed by a Board of Governors. The first study packs for the IHB Hairdressing and Barbering Diploma will be issued on January 31, 2011. Registration for the IHB certification will commence at 9 am at Bishops College Auditorium. More information relating to the IHB certification can be obtained by contacting the institute on 011 573 6553.





The Mahaweli Authority is planning to provide 10,000 employment opportunities to graduates within the next three years, Director General of the Mahaweli Authority D. M. C. Dissanayake said.

"Under the projects, the graduates will be encouraged to start ornamental fish breeding, dairy farming and agriculture," he said.

The Mahaweli authority has already allocated lands for the projects and the graduates will be provided with land, financial assistance and technical guidance to carry out their projects.

"All the unproductive patches of land will be used for ornamental fish breeding. There is an increasing demand for ornamental fish in the international market, especially from the European countries," Dissanayake said.

Currently, the industry has great marketing potential and graduates will be able to earn high incomes through the project, he said.

A large number of graduates will be involved in dairy farming as the second employment project, where they would be provided with all the facilities as well as imported cattle.

"Nearly 50 such dairy farms will be created and each one will consist of around 25 cows. These will be started as small scale industries but later the graduates will be able to expand them to large enterprises under their own brand names," Dissanayake said.

Under the third stage of the projects the graduates will be involved in growing cash crops, which would also be run as small scale industries.

The Mahaweli Authority is planning to open sales outlets in highly populated areas such as Colombo, Kandy, Gampaha, Kurunegala, Badulla and Galle, where the products could be sold.

"The graduates will be provided with modern technology and hybrid varieties that can yield high income," he said.

The projects would be carried out as self-employment projects which would be facilitated by the Authority and Mahaweli authority would finance these projects with the assistance of World Bank and JICA.





I read a report recently during which a United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) official lambasted beach hotels and tourists alike for allowing Sri Lanka's "white, sandy beaches" to become despoiled by garbage pollution.

Whilst applauding the principle, I fail to understand why the UNDP made no reference to the far more serious pollution caused by oil residue being washed ashore.

I regularly walk the beach area at Waikkal north of Negombo and despite the fact that there are three international hotels within a mile or so, unprecedented amounts of oil gets washed up on a regular basis; so regular in fact that beach sections uncovered by the tide reveal a 'layer cake' effect - alternating gold/white sand and black sludge.

My understanding is that this oil pollution is caused by the illegal 'sluicing out' of heavy oil tanks by cargo ships whilst still at sea and on the basis that a chemical spill into a water course can be traced back to the offending party with comparative ease these days I should like to know why the Masters of the offending vessels are not routinely brought to book.

Whilst on the same general subject, the matter of refuse disposal generally is in urgent need of address, in the absence of which rivers and water courses Island-wide will continue to be routinely used as disposal media for all manner of waste - because bear in mind that whatever floats down a river today gets washed up on a beach tomorrow!





It was reported in a daily paper on Jan. 05, that Customs Officials have bared the biggest exchange fraud. Mention was also made that when a customer deposited more than rupees one million in any bank the bank involved should intimate it to the Central Bank, according to financial regulations.

As bankers are bound by an oath of secrecy according to the law of banking, the above requirement will be nothing but an infringement of the oath of secrecy.

Is it practicable nowadays to report such transactions when those involving millions of rupees are done in banks each day?

Bankers however make inquiries when transactions not commensurate with a customer's account are dealt with.





"A company's strategy is the action plan of management for running the business and conducting operations" (Thompson, Srtickland and Gamble; 2007). Accordingly, an action plan speaks out as to how management expects the business to grow, how a loyal clientele is built and rivals are out-competed. It also showcases how each function unit is operated and how performance will be boosted. The best indicators of a company's strategy are its actions in the market place, the statements of leaders about the company's current business approaches, future plans and efforts to strengthen its competitiveness and performance (Thompson, Srtickland and Gamble; 2007).

Competitive Advantage

It is interesting to examine the concept of strategic Sustainable Competitive Advantage (SCA) as well as its sources and different types of strategies which may be used to achieve it, because of its importance to the long term success of the firm. The idea of the SCA surfaced in 1984 when Day suggested various strategies that may help to "sustain the competitive advantage". However, the actual term "SCA" emerged in 1985 when Michael Porter discussed the basic types of competitive strategies firms can implement to achieve SCA (Hoffman, 2000). Though Porter had not given a formal conceptual definition, as mentioned by Hoffman (2000), Barney (1991) has come to the closest to a formal definition by exemplifying the concept as follows.

"A firm is said to have a sustained competitive advantage when it is implementing a value creating strategy not simultaneously being implemented by any current or potential competitors and when these other firms are unable to duplicate the benefits of this strategy".

In other words, this is the choice/ selection perspective of a firm in its adaptation approach in a competitive market.

Many researchers have directly or indirectly contributed to the literature on SCA. The following table illustrates a summary of such contributions.

Strategically, organizations would face a challenging and critical situation when choosing on a variety of contradictory and competing approaches in terms of dealing with the competition. They have to decide whether to adapt to the competition or environment either by compliance with the industry norms or by being aggressive through the selection of alternatives/ choices.

Compliance and Strategic Choice/ Selection

Analysis of the effects of environment on organizational structure when taking strategic decisions, whether or not to comply with the industry norms in the process of adaptation, has moved to a central place in organizations theory and research (Hannan & Freeman; 1977). The effect may be due to political, economical, social, technological, legal and environment (PESTLE) factors from the external environment or due to factors from the internal environment of the organization itself such as its vision, mission, culture, structure, resources etc. or due to both categories. Organizations often adapt to environmental conditions and will lead to change in its internal systems or structure instead of taking aggressive selection decisions on choice. According to Hannan & Freeman (1977), managers usually scan the relevant external environment for opportunities and threats, formulate strategic responses and adjust the strengths and weaknesses of the internal environment appropriately. Organizations are affected by their environments according to the ways in which leaders formulate strategies, make decisions and implement them. Therefore, a clear strategic vision and expertise in making decisions based on the strategic intent are vital in achieving a competitive advantage. Successful leaders are capable either to buffer their organizations from environmental disturbances or to arrange smooth adjustments that require minimal disruption of organizational structure.

Response to the Environment

No organization in the world has the ability to shape the environment to fit its own needs and they, to a large extent, adapt themselves to their environments. "Therefore, to be successful, all organizations need to understand the context in which they operate and need to play by most of the rules of the game" (Wit & Meyer; 2004). Probably the most common reason for corporate failure is the mismatch between the organization and its environment. Misinterpretation of the direction of changes may lead to failure of taking appropriate corrective action or of paying sufficient attention to external developments. To achieve compliance with the industry rules, organizations must develop or slightly alter structures, processes and the culture. They must learn to become customer and market oriented by anticipating and identifying customer needs and wants instead of pushing their products and services to the market. "Firm compliance means avoiding the pitfall of organizational arrogance". In other words, avoiding any approach that no one is waiting for (Miller, 1990; Whitley, 1999: cited in Wit & Meyer, 2004).

On the other hand, contradicting the industry norms or rules can also be strategically valuable. Adapting only to current rules or compliance will not provide the organization with a significant competitive advantage over its rivals. Adapting to the current industry norms means the organization is doing business in more or less the same way as its competitors do. It is, in other words, just following the "Me-too" strategy (Wit & Meyer; 2004). They further argue that organizations need to do something different deviating from the current rules of the game to become unique and develop a competitive advantage. More radical and innovative departure from old industry structure will certainly gain large competitive advantage and it will be more difficult for rivals to imitate and catch up. To achieve organizational strategic choice, organizations must find ways of escaping the pitfall of organizational conformity or the strict adherence to current industry rules or norms. They must develop structures, processes and a supporting culture in which the current system is critically analyzed, questioned, challenged and changed. In the long run innovation and change will make more productive organization (Hamel & Prahalad, 1994; Kim & Mauborgne, 1999: cited in Wit & Meyer; 2004).

The question is whether organizations must make effort (time and resources) and take the apparent risk of failure to break industry rules. It is a stuck between rewards and risks and the way of becoming the industry leader or achieving bankruptcy. When the firm can not influence the structure of the industry it must compliance to the rules of the game and adapt to the industry context. On the other hand when the firm does have the ability to manipulate the industry structure, it should exercise its freedom of choice to break the industry norms. Therefore, organization can not apply these two contradictory approaches at the same time but time to time depending on the external & internal environmental conditions. They stand on the most appropriate approach.

The Relationship of SCA to Various Concepts in Theory of Strategy

The following table illustrates the different strategies to ensure the competitive advantage over rivals.

Accordingly, companies in various industries would apply certain strategies either to comply with market norms or to grow aggressively in the market depending on the trends in the external environment and on the available resources in the internal environment. Many organizations adapt differentiation backed sustainable competitive advantage covering seven key areas such as geography, products and business lines, distribution channels, sales and service culture, new product development, branding, and human resource development to succeed in the industry.

SCA in the Banking Industry

Geographical Decisions

The intention of an expanding decision is to secure a competitive advantage over its competitors in geographical areas where competitors do not have a presence. However, there will be setbacks due to several reasons such as lack of trained staff, high capital cost, poor planning, non compliance with local regulations, unexpected delays in implementation, disturbances in high tech communication including Interne and integrated ATM networks. Some external environmental factors such as requirement of license, lack of suitable lands and buildings, entry barriers, political involvements, environmental effects and economical setbacks have also become problems in achieving the set goals.

Products and Business Line Decisions

A substantial portion of bank's revenue comes from non traditional banking products such as treasury and hedging instruments, insurance and fee based advisory services. Some banks are the pioneers in several high-tech products which save the turn-around time and secure an advantage over its competitors in the short run. However, in the medium and long run it does not make much difference since competitors imitate and provide same services using more advanced technologies in more effective and efficient ways.

Distribution Decisions

Banks must have the best, most extensive and multi-channel distribution system in the industry to secure any competitive advantage. Banks invest in large networks of branches, mobile units, an extensive ATM network, Internet backed online banking and telephone banking. Unique services in cash management can create a real competitive advantage. Banks can provide banking services in strategically important locations such as super markets, airport, entertainment layouts than any of its competitors. The intention is to provide the best, integrated "trusted gateway" for all its customers' financial services. However, some obstacles such as breakdowns in service, high employee turnover in the IT department, lack of skilled staff to train the client and incorrect attitudes of the staff and non availability of IT related products such as computers with some of the target audience and their reluctance to do online transactions etc may hinder the expected results.

Decisions to maintain a Sales and Service Culture

Another important strategy is to adopt a sales culture. It offers customers a broad product line and a better deal for giving it more of their business. It is vital to rank all profit centres on four key sales measures i.e. core sales per day, profit per day, customer cross-selling, closed referrals, and customer service. Expectation to sell at least one more product to every customer every year is a good strategic intent.

New Product Development Decisions

Banks should maintain the efficiency and speed to cater the market with new products and services. Though the operating expenses are tightly controlled in most of the banks it should not be at the expense of "doing it right for the customer". However, lack of integration among departments, lack of research & development & delays in implementation have generated a difference between the intent and the actual results.

Branding Decisions

The image and reputation of the bank is maintained by values such as corporate governance, Corporate Social Responsibility, customer satisfaction, environmental protection, leadership, team work and compliance to legal regulations and best practices such as Basel II requirements. In addition to its corporate branding, a proper product & services branding is also important to maintain an edge over its rivalry.

Human Resource Decisions

Banks should believe in people as a competitive advantage. They strive to find the best people from a diversity of backgrounds and cultures, give them the knowledge and training they need, allow them to be responsible and accountable for their businesses, and recognize them for outstanding performance. Products and technology do not fulfill the promise behind a brand but people do. More talented, more motivated, more energized people than their competitors are the real choice. They should be properly rewarded, encouraged, and recognized for a better service & results. This decision can generate more revenue. However, higher expectations of people and having better offers from competitors have hindered the intended results.

Conclusion

The competitive advantage is difficult to create. It is even more difficult to sustain. Banks usually can not achieve a cost advantage, especially in the head-to-head competition due to the nature of business and bargaining powers of large and established corporate clients . That leaves differentiation as their primary strategy for creating competitive advantage. Some concepts widely used by these banks for differentiation are superior customer service, branding, market orientation, organizational learning, innovation through state-of-the-art technology, forming alliances, customer value, relationship marketing and networks. Superior skills and superior resources are some of the important sources of competitive advantage. Besides, these sources must have four attributes such as rareness, value, inability to be imitated and inability to be substituted. Potential resources can be most usefully categorized as financial, physical, legal, human, organizational, informational and relational. It is also important to combine available resources and skills into core competencies in unique and enduring ways to achieve the maximum results. Lack of any of above sources will definitely make a gap between the strategic intent and the actual results.





The government has dissolved most of the local authorities and declared that elections to them will be held in March this year. These elections will be taken by all parties as a referendum on the government's continuing hold over the electorate. After President Mahinda Rajapaksa's election as President in November 2005 by a whisker, the government has repeatedly demonstrated a stranglehold over most of the electorate, with the exception of some of the areas inhabited by the ethnic minorities. It is generally believed that this has been on account of the electorate's appreciation of the government's victory in the war and elimination of the LTTE.

There is however an erosion today of this support on account of the absence of the peace dividend that was reasonably anticipated after the war. The hope of people for an immediate improvement in their economic circumstances has not materialized. The inability of the government to even fulfill its election time promises of a salary increase has shaken the confidence of the people in the government's word. The inability of incomes to match the rise in prices has impoverished many people, especially those on fixed incomes. There are more and more voices even within the government leadership expressing their concerns about easing the economic burdens on the people.

The government's decision not to conduct the local authority elections under the first-past-the-post system for which it has prepared the necessary legislation is probably due to the concerns expressed by local level government politicians that they will not fare too well in face to face contests with the opposition. The existing proportional representation system, which the government had sought to modify, reduces the margin of victory and defeat, and is the safer option for a government that is no longer sure of its electorate.

While declaring the local authority elections the government has also decided not to hold these elections in the urban centres and towns at this time. The government has explained its decision to postpone elections in the municipalities and urban councils on account of preparations for the World Cup cricket tournament. The government would also be concerned about the possibility of suffering electoral reversals. The more educated and fixed income earning class of people live in urban areas and are more likely to be affected by price rises than their more self-reliant rural counterparts.

Misallocating resources

The government has devised various strategies to reduce the economic burden on the urban population. An original concept attributed to the President is to get the armed forces to sell vegetables at cheaper prices than in the open market. This strategy is unlikely to have much of an impact on the cost of living. The media has reported that the sales outlets are few in number and that the commodities on sale are also limited, although sold at about half the price of the open market. In the past, the government had a Marketing Department which fell casualty to its inefficiency and inability to compete with the same private sector that is today being demonized as rapacious middlemen.

There is a need on the part of the government to re-think its strategy of development and resource allocation for the future. During the time of war it made rational sense to increase the size of the military by beefing it up with additional personnel and equipping it with more sophisticated weapons. However, it makes no similar sense to continue to engage in the same practice in a post-war situation. The utilization of the excess manpower in the military to buy and sell vegetables is difficult to justify on the basis of any rational economic theory. It would be described by economists as a misallocation of resources for political purposes.

If the government wishes to adequately address the post-war problems faced by people and ensure its electoral viability into the future, it needs to make the transition to peace-time governance. War-time governance required the centralization of decision-making capacities, emergency laws and an enhanced military budget. By way of contrast, post-war governance requires a non-violent style of leadership that alone can heal the wounds of war and unfetter the economic energies of the people. When decision-making power is concentrated in a few hands, emergency laws prevail and the army is entering the vegetable trade, the message being sent to potential investors is not a positive one.

Providing a leadership that heals the wounds of war and transforms the structures of violence is the new challenge for President Rajapaksa and his government. There is widespread belief that whatever the infirmities of government, the majority of people continue to trust the President's intentions with regard to the unity and development of the country on account of his conduct during the time of war. Most people would like to see the President lead the country to a new phase of its history after the war, as did King Asoka in ancient India. King Dutugemunu in ancient Sri Lanka is another example. These leaders are cherished in historical memory not only because they won wars, but because led their people to new heights by respecting their fallen opponents and de-militarising their post-war societies.

American example

There are also examples of leadership from other parts of the world that could be useful in Sri Lanka at this time. Over the past week I was present at a photographic exhibition and educational workshops that celebrated the vision and work of the great American civil rights leader, Rev. Martin Luther King, Jr. There was a message in this programme, which had relevance to all those people of Sri Lanka who feel that they are being marginalized and their problems are being glossed over. At the time of Rev. King's intervention in the 1960s, the American black population faced greater discrimination and marginalization than any community in Sri Lanka. They were not even permitted to sit on buses next to white Americans.

In many other societies such oppression might have led to violence and terrorism. Sri Lanka is a society that has gone through such cycles of violence and terrorism both in the North and South. In the three main instances of violence, the outcome of these efforts to change the system was large scale destruction of life and property. The United States was able to escape this fate due to the leadership shown by Rev. King who used non-violent means of mobilizing the black population, and the responsiveness of white American society and the political leadership who responded to non-violent campaigns with major political reforms. Fifty years after Martin Luther King, American society had transformed so much that it was able to elect a black to be its President.

At the Martin Luther King event in Matara in the deep south of the country, I was able to witness a hope giving scene for Sri Lanka. Over a thousand schoolchildren and youth attended the two day programme. Like most Sri Lankan children they were shy and reluctant to raise their hands and ask questions or make comments. But at the conclusion when they were asked to make their observations one teenage boy raised his hand. He said that everyone was happy that the war had ended. He asked the other children not to be angry with what he wanted to say—that it was not enough to think that the war had ended and all was well. He asked if the other children would mind if a Tamil family moved to live amongst them. This would be a truly united Sri Lanka, like the one in the United States that Martin Luther King had worked and died for.

The lesson of this is that the government need not be hostage to the past and to its past slogans and electoral campaigns. In order to defeat the LTTE on the military battlefield, it may have been necessary to make use of ethnic nationalism to mobilize the people for war and to militarise the society. But now that phase is over. The people no longer need to be mobilized by nationalism to back the government that leads them. The cycle of confrontation, polarization and nationalistic rhetoric will not help to promote economic development nor will it attract foreign investments that the economy needs. There is an entirely new direction that the government can take and needs to take. The indications are that the people will be happy to accept leadership that stresses reconciliation, tolerance and respect for the other, which is part of the Sri Lankan ethos and which the world will want to support.





Tehran, Iran (AP) — The death toll from a plane crash in northwestern Iran has risen to 77, news agencies in the country reported Monday.

Twenty-seven others were injured when the IranAir jet crashed near the city of Orumiyeh, in a snowy and mountainous part of the country, state-run Press TV reported.

Bad weather forced the Boeing 727 to give up its first landing attempt. It was circling for a second approach when air-traffic controllers lost contact with the plane, according to an account on Press TV.

Investigators have recovered the flight data recorders and plan to analyze them to determine what caused the crash, the news agency said, citing Ahmad Majidi, deputy for crisis management in the Road and Transportation Ministry.

The semi-official Fars news agency said the plane went down in farmland after making a second attempt to land.

Official Iranian news agencies reported Sunday that the plane carried 105 passengers and crew members, but Press TV reported a toll Monday — 77 dead and 27 injured — that suggests 104 passengers and crew were on board. The discrepancy could not immediately be clarified.





Last year's Sri Lanka captain at the Asian 5 Nations 15-a-side rugby tournament, Pradeep Liyanage, is to face a disciplinary inquiry by the Sri Lanka Rugby Football Union (SLRFU).

SLRFU Secretary Shane Dullewa told 'The Island' that a date will be fixed soon for the inquiry. It is learnt that the SLRFU authorities are angered by a strongly worded letter penned to them by Liyanage in which he states; "attending rugby practices is waste of time."

Liyanage had a row with the SLRFU authorities when the side was named for the Commonwealth Games rugby sevens. Liyanage, who was critical of the training methods used for players in an interview with a leading newspaper, made himself unavailable for most of the rugby sevens tournaments in which Sri Lanka contested last year. Liyanage stressed upon that rugby sevens training sessions were unplanned, disorganized and were a waste of time. He also stressed the fact that "there was lack of vision in the whole exercise."

The national selection committee headed by Michael Jayasekera has named a strong 63 member squad for the upcoming Asian 5 Nations tournament which includes the cream of players from the champion Kandy SC team.

Sri Lanka's chances in the Top Division Tournament will only be rosy if the Kandy SC authorities release their players for the tour. At the last edition of the Asian 5 Nations, held last year, Sri Lanka were able to win the Division 1 Tournament and earn a promotion to the Top Division because the country could assemble the best possible side. A Sri Lanka's performances at international competitions have earned praise whenever the islanders put out a strong side.

The SLRFU is often quick to deny the existence of a rift between Kandy and Colombo, but this has been the cause for the snail paced progress of rugby in the country.

Interestingly, the coach of the champion Kandy SC team, Johan Taylor, is one of three expatriates who have shown an interest in obtaining the head coach's job.

Sri Lanka will play against Japan, Arabian Gulf, Kazakhstan and Hong Kong in the Top Division this year.





The postponed ODI series between Sri Lanka and West Indies due to inclement weather in December last year will resume in late January.

'The Island' learns that the West Indies will arrive in late January and will play the first One-Day International of a three match series at Suriyawewa before returning to Colombo for the remainder of the series.

The first match of the series has been scheduled for 31st of December while the two games at R. Premadasa International Stadium has been tentatively scheduled for 2nd and 4th of February. However, SLC sources said the board is trying to avoid playing the final game on the 4th of February, the Independence Day.

When the West Indies were here last time they complained about poor facilities in the dressing room and were said to be unhappy with several other arrangements including long bus journeys.





Reading about the on-going debate over mini-skirts, I began to wonder whether they are more seductive than the midriff that we have been familiar with for a quite a long time. Today I read some blogger commenting on news of the President's reported remarks over people trying to create a rift between him and the Chief Justice reminding of 'Pontanona' who was at liberty to fashion her blouse the way she wants. (Pontanona tamange haette ona vidiyata kappa-gathahaeki'). So let me symbolically refer to those who display these 'new' fashion trends as 'Pontanonas'. No ill-will is intended. The pick is from our street level where I wallow these days enjoying the grim humour present at that level.

I remember seeing the midriff among those who wear saris for the first time when Indian film stars like Nargis, Nimmi and others visited 'Ceylon'. We were university students at the time and I remember following them to Kandy from Peradeniya, perhaps, more to see these midriffs which was quite novel to us than for any other reason. Soon the midriff became fashionable among ladies here and now it has widened to expose the naval and much of the flesh round the belly in a big way. One sometimes wonders how the seven yards are tucked up so low without allowing to it to come down. These are some of the simpler thoughts that come to the minds of onlookers.

The midriff did not stay confined to the Orient. It soon caught up in the West and even replaced the mini-skirt which once tantalised the minds of men. Five years back, after a visit to London after a long time, I wrote about the midriff which had become part of the Western dress in a big way that summer. I could not believe that some females wanted to display their not –very – pleasing - to – look - at round pot bellies. They were certainly not expectant mothers. The first thought I had was revulsion than admiration seeing the protruding bulk. The idea is not different even when one sees a display of such bulky mass through a transparent sari.

Now, to come to the point, what do our moralists think of the midriff which could be considered far more common and seductive here than the mini-skirt? Don't we have to start with the Sigiriya damsels if we start an onslaught on the midriff too? But the Sigiriya damsels are covering themselves with fine muslins! Perhaps, on saner counsel, we may let both mini-skirts and midriff to stay as necessary evils in a hot/humid climate. What think you?





Indian film actor Shahrukh Khan, right, presents South Africa's Makhaya Ntini, left, to the crowd during 1860 anniversary celebrations that marked the arrival of Indians in the country 150 years ago at the Moses Mabhida stadium in Durban, South Africa on Sunday Jan. 9, 2011. Ntini played his last international match on Sunday. (AP)

Sunday was Makhaya Ntini's day, after an international career lasting 13 years, 101 Test matches and 173 ODIs. The man from Mdingi bowed out of world cricket in an appropriate manner, cheered by the biggest cricket crowd in Africa, and warmly acknowledged by his peers, including Sachin Tendulkar, who called him "the great champion".

The 33-year-old was applauded every time he touched the ball, even when he was struck for four, such was the affection he commanded.

And when, in the 13th over, he clung on to a boundary catch off Indian top scorer Rohit Sharma the roof nearly came off.

After bowling his final over, there was a huge ovation.

Each member of the South African team went to him and gave him a hug. He bowed, waved and then trotted – as he had done throughout his international career – back to long leg to take up his familiar fielding position.

The fact that he had been hit for 46 runs in his four overs was simply a detail that will be erased very quickly from the national consciousness.

During the innings break, Ntini's praises were sung in a film put together by Cricket South Africa, with messages and interviews placing him at the forefront of cricket development. The common theme? Thank you for your inspirational role, and the way you have helped black South African cricketers.

When South Africa batted, it was touch-and-go whether Ntini was going to be seen in action again but, fortunately, with the Proteas' innings into its final over and the match already lost, the great man strolled to the wicket to yet another ovation.

His batting was a little more successful than his bowling on this occasion as he nudged a single off one of the two balls he faced and marched off undefeated.

At the end of the game, with India comfortable winners, the Indian players each took their turn to hug Ntini and acknowledge his career.

Ntini then hitched a ride on a golf cart round the stadium as he received the applause of the crowd.

At the end, after receiving an award from President Jacob Zuma, he took the microphone and called out: "Thank you, Durban. Thank you, thank you, thank you for all your support over the last 12 years."

And then, turning towards the South African and Indian players, he said: "It was a privilege to play with you guys."





Negombo Additional Magistrate Upul Rajakaruna refused bail to eight suspects alleged to have robbed at gun point Rs. four million worth cash, jewellery, mobile phones and valuables from a group of people who were staying in two hotels in Katunayake.

The suspects who were remanded till January 10 included two sergeants of the STF and two police constables. They had stormed two hotels near the BIA and robbed the victims who were spending the night there to fly out of the country the following day.

Before the robber gang left the hotel they had handcuffed the victims. The CID said that the complainants had brought money along with them to be paid to a female job agent and had agreed with her to meet at the respective hotels and collect their tickets and the visas to migrate to the United Kingdom and Canada.

The CID told Court that the job agent was working hand in glove with the robbers and she herself was a suspect. She had allegedly informed the robber gang of the victims.

The robbers would storm the hotels while the victims were with the job agent claiming that their travel documents were forged, the CID told the Court.









KARACHI, JAN 10 (AP): President Asif Ali Zardari on Monday assured Sri Lanka of providing soft term credit facility for the export of Pakistani cement and sugar plants to it. He was talking to a Sri Lankan parliamentary delegation headed by Speaker of Parliament Chamal Jayantha Rajapaksa that called on him at Governor House. Senate Chairman Farooq H Naek, Speaker of the National Assembly Dr Fehmida Mirza and Chairman of Board of Investment Saleem Mandviwala were also present on the occasion. The Sri Lankan delegation included beside others Minister for Disaster Management Mohammad Fowzie Abdul Hameed.

President Zardari said that Pakistani entrepreneurs should invest in Sri Lanka and its government must provide incentives, including repatriation of investment to attract investment from Pakistan.

He also stressed for enhancing economic cooperation between the two countries, including exchange of gem and stone cutting experts from Sri Lanka to Pakistan and Pakistani experts to Sri Lanka. He added," Pakistan can train police and intelligence officers of Sri Lanka". The President underlined the need for increasing export of Sri Lankan tea to Pakistan and said that bilateral trade should be in local currency. Chamal Rajapaksa said that Sri Lanka fully supported Pakistan's efforts and role regarding war on terror to curb terrorism in the country and around the world. He highly appreciated Pakistan's support extended to Sri Lankan army for combating against terrorism in the peninsula. The Sri Lankan delegation also had shown keen interest in Gandhara and Taxila archeological sites. Sri Lanka is the first country with whom Pakistan signed free trade agreement FTA which has doubled bilateral trade in the last few years to 400 million dollar and both the nations have set a target to take the two-way trade to 2 billion dollar by 2012.





Before outbreak of Eelam War IV Tigers told Norwegians they could be militarily defeated

January 10, 2011, 10:07 pm

Successive Sri Lankan governments overestimated the LTTE's conventional military capability and feared the group could never be militarily defeated

By Shamindra Ferdinando

The LTTE had told the then peace facilitator Norway that it could be militarily defeated by the Sri Lankan government several months before fighting broke out following an LTTE attempt to overrun the Trincomalee Navy base in Aug. 2006.

Norwegian Special Envoy Jon Hanssen-Baur revealed the LTTE's frank assertion during a meeting he had with representatives of Sri Lankan Peace Co-chairs at the Norwegian Foreign Ministry on April 11, 2006 to discuss a meeting with the representatives of the Sri Lankan government and the LTTE.

According to a confidential US diplomatic missive released by the whistle blowing website Wiki Leaks, citing recent contacts with the LTTE, Hanssen-Baur told representatives from US, EU and Japan that the LTTE had admitted its conventional military capability couldn't match the firepower of the government.

The armed forces liberated the Eastern Province in mid 2007 and cleared the North by May 2009. The LTTE collapsed on the banks of the Nanthikadal lagoon on May 19.

A US diplomat quoted Hanssen-Baur as saying: "Hanssen-Bauer finds mixed messages from the LTTE. Although the LTTE indicates it wants to go beyond cease-fire talks and eventually discuss other issues with the GSL (e.g. economic development and democracy building), the first LTTE issue is a guarantee of security for the Geneva-bound LTTE delegation, which Rajapaksa has given. Hanssen-Bauer finds the LTTE's greatest issue is for the GSL to disarm/disband the Karuna faction. The LTTE feels that the GSL is "shutting its eyes" to Karuna's operations, and speculates that Karuna may be used by the GSL as a weapon in a war against the LTTE."

Government sources pointed out that the LTTE had accepted the superiority of armed forces even before losing the first of its eight floating arsenals on the high seas. The Navy blew up the first vessel off Kalmunai in Sept. 2006 and the remaining seven in three separate confrontations in 2007.

The cable quoted Hanssen-Baur expressing concern at a private meet with a US diplomat following the Co-Chairs' confab that the LTTE political leadership was under increasing pressure from its military leadership. The cable also revealed that the then US Ambassador in Colombo Jeffrey Lunstead had intervened to pressure Sri Lanka to provide SLAF transport to the LTTE. According to the cable, Hanssen-Baur had praised Lunstead's efforts, though Sri Lanka refused to give in to pressure.

Military and diplomatic sources told The Island that those who had spearheaded the peace initiative, political parties in Sri Lanka and a section of the media as well as various analysts always maintained that the LTTE couldn't militarily defeated. Responding to a query by The Island, a senior official said that in spite of regularly boasting of its conventional military capability and the power of suicide cadres, the LTTE had admitted that it couldn't defeat government forces, though on and off major battlefield victories could be achieved. The official said that the LTTE had assessed the situation correctly, though a section of the government wasn't so sure about the outcome of a military offensive.

Sources said that intelligence and analysis provided by various sources, too, influenced the position taken up by successive governments that the LTTE was militarily undefeatable.

The Co-Chairs appeared to have ignored Hanssen-Baur's statement on the LTTE's military capability when they met in Tokyo in May 2006 to discuss the situation in Sri Lanka. The then US Ambassador in Colombo J. Thomas Schieffer following the Tokyo meet said in confidential cable that solutions to the Sri Lankan problem couldn't be brought through conflict-the history showed that war was not winnable by either side and simply caused immense suffering to the civilians.









The Maliboda estate hospital was renovated at a cost of Rs. 5,000,000 recently. However, its roof is already leaking. But the authorities are turning a blind eye to the problem.

People of the area demand to know what the contractor has done with the money. With the allocated funds, he has only tiled part of the building, built six toilets, and a water tank, they complain.

"The roof of the kitchen is without tiles and part of it has given way. This could result in the walls collapsing if the authorities don't immediately effect repairs to it", a resident in the area said.

The ambulance idles in the garage.

Estate workers urge the government to order a probe to find out what has become of the funds allocated for renovations.





January 10, 2011: CHENNAI: A 40-year-old Sri Lankan Tamil, a resident of the special camp at Poonamallee, has sought the permission of the authorities to go on fast from January 15 demanding speedy trial. The residents have also demanded an enhancement of their daily allowance from Rs 45 to Rs 70.

The representation, submitted to the jurisdictional tahsildar, has been referred to the state government through the Kancheepuram district collector.

According to sources, Muthanna has submitted a representation to the Poonamallee Tahsildar, S Padmavathy, requesting permission to begin fast inside the camp from January 15 onwards. Muthanna and other inmates are demanding expeditious trial of cases against them pending in special courts.

Tamil Nadu has two special camps — one is at Chengalpattu and the other at Poonamallee. As of now, only nine Sri Lankan Tamil refugees are in the Poonamallee camp. Nine others have got conditional permission from courts to stay at their relatives' house in the city. Terming the special camp as a jail, inmates have complained that steps should be taken to expedite the trial process.

The state government has fixed Rs 45 as daily allowance for each inmate. This amount is disbursed once in every fortnight by the local Tahsildar. For the past few months, the inmates are staging sit-in protests inside the camp, demanding enhancement of the allowance to Rs 70. On January 1, when the revenue officials visited the camp to disburse the amount, the inmates refused to receive the amount, and said they would accept it only if it was increased.

When contacted, tahsildar S Padmavathy said: "The inmates declined to accept the allowance. But after repeated requests they received the money on Friday. As they are not allowed to go out for buying grocery and other items, we have deputed a revenue official to help them buy the essentials. Their request to increase the allowance has been sent to the state government through the collectorate." – (Times of India)









Apropos Dr. U Pethiyagoda's views on kidney disease in the Jan 06th Opinion page, 'murunga' is used not only to purify water but also to neutralise harmful effects of seafood like lobsters, crabs and prawns. I learnt this method from my grandmother, who used to request us to peel off some bark of a 'murunga' tree before she started to cook seafood. Eating 'murunga' leaves as mellum may not be common in Sri Lanka, but many villagers in Myanmar eat it, even raw.

I would like to invite those interested in knowing more to visit YOUTUBE and watch the videos on 'murunga'.





The National Child Protection Authority (NCPA) says it is investigating a racket at the Bandaranaike International Airport (BIA) where children are sold to potential customers by housemaids returning from overseas.

NCPA Chairperson Anoma Dissanayake said that initial investigations had revealed that airport taxi drivers were involved in the racket and often duped the housemaids to sell their babies and children saying the kids will be taken care of by economically stable families.

Once handed over to the taxi drivers there is no information as to where or to who the children are sold and where they are taken to, Dissanayake told News Now.lk adding that so far no arrests have been made over the racket.

Children being sold by their parents in Sri Lanka is not uncommon. Similar incidents had been reported last year and year before last as well where children had been sold or abandoned by their mothers in places like Kalutara. (News Now.lk)





Private bus operators, in the Western Province, said last evening that they had decided to call off their 24-hour strike, beginning at 12 midnight yesterday, as the government had agreed to find solutions to their grievances.

Earlier, the Transport Minister of the Western Province and the WP Road Transport Authority refused to accede to the three demands made by operators – Increasing the minimum fare from Rs. 6 to 7, scrapping proposed 20 per cent increase in private bus operating permits, and the immediate implementation of time schedules.

Western Province Transport Minister Upali Kodikara told a media briefing yesterday morning that the government had made preparations to face the strike threat and ordered the deployment of additional CTB buses, trains and vans for the convenience of the commuting public.

Transport Minister Kumara Welgama said that the bus owners were aware that price revisions could be effected only in July every year and they should wait until the proper time without inconveniencing the public. "However we are prepared to face the threat," Welgama had said.





The residents of Uyanwatte have sent a petition to the Chairman of the Matara District Coordination Board MP Sanath Jayasuriya protesting against the decision taken by the Matara Urban Council to concrete the road leading from Uyanwatte Esplanade to St. Thomas Balika Vidyalaya.

The residents have said that when concreted the road will be raised by about eight inches on either side and there will be a gap hindering the movement of vehicles when they pass one another. They have said in the petition that tarring of the road would be a better option.









The only barge available to ferry over 500 people daily across the River Nilwala at MullaThotupola in Athuraliya is in a dilapidated condition and hence the journey has become quite risky. It is more so when the water level rises.

The river is infested with crocodiles and already many lives have been lost due to crocodile attacks, but the authorities have turned a blind eye to the plight of the people here.

K. B. Indrani, a villager, said: "This is a dangerous spot and people who live by the river have seen crocodiles prowling and the moment your attention is distracted, they will drag you into the water. Children who use this barge to go to school are at risk."

I. J. A. L. Leelawathi, another villager said, "The children didn't go to school the last week as there were floods and if the authorities had heeded our pleas and constructed a bridge this problem would not have arisen. But the local authorities and the politicians are not bothered about the suffering of the people of this village".

T.W. Mandawathi said that it was some solace that there was at least a ferry to transport people. "You can imagine what would have been our plight if it had not been there. But if the dilapidated barge falls apart in the middle of the river while ferrying people across it, many lives will be lost", she warned.

She said that if a villager was fatally attacked by a crocodile the government would pay the affected family Rs. 50,000 or a little more and forget about it but that would be little consolation for the bereaved family, Mandawathi said urging the authorities to take urgent action to avert disaster.





Wikileaks Revelations Ranil in powwow with Lunstead vented his spleen on CBK, Kadir

January 10, 2011, 9:59 pm

The then Opposition Leader Ranil Wickremesinghe has strongly criticized President Chandrika Kumaratunga's approach to the Norwegian-led peace process. The UNP leader has also faulted Foreign Minister Lakshman Kadirgamar for not being realistic, thereby an obstacle to the peace process.

According to a recently leaked US diplomatic cable posted on the Internet by Wikileaks MP Wickremesinghe, at a meeting with the then US Ambassador Jeffrey J. Lunstead, said it was President Kumaratunga who had the mandate and not he. The US Ambassador quoted the UNP leader as saying, "President Kumaratunga and Foreign Minister Kadirgamar did not understand the psychology of the LTTE. They [the LTTE] only want to discuss an interim administration. They will never agree to discuss final issues now."

The meet took place shortly after Wickremesinghe's UNF administration lost the April 2004 general election to the PA.

Wickremesinghe said, according to the cable, that he had discussed the issue with Kadirgamar, but the Foreign Minister had insisted that he wanted to take up hard issues now. Ranil said that he had ignored some transgressions by the LTTE because it was the only way to keep negotiations going. The President did not understand the ground reality, the US embassy quoted the UNP leader as saying.

Wickremesinghe has also alleged that the Directorate of Military Intelligence (DMI) had used the breakaway Karuna faction to target the LTTE.

Wickremesinghe was also quoted as saying, "...the government was playing a dangerous game because the DMI was using the breakaway LTTE rebel Karuna to get back at the LTTE.

Ranil said he "knew" this was the case — he had sources in the military who had told him so.

The US Ambassador told the UNP leader that the then UNP spokesman G. L. Peiris, MP, had commented that the President Kumaratunga's efforts were a "sham" peace process and not helpful. One could criticize what the President wanted to do, Ambassador said, but should not imply that she was not interested in peace.

At a subsequent meeting, the then Indian High Commissioner N. Sen said that the SL military had been directed to stop supporting Karuna, though they had worked together earlier.

The US embassy told Wickremesinghe not try to take political advantage by attacking the peace process. According to the US embassy cable, Wickremesinghe made it clear, however, that he wouldn't support the President.

Interestingly the US has admitted that Wickremesinghe analysis of the LTTE was accurate. "Ranil ́s analysis of the psychology of the Tigers, and the need to induce them to participate in the talks may be accurate. "





The villagers of Ayagama in the Sabaragamuwa province recently organized a Pirith ceremony where the Buddhist monks travelled to several villages in a Pirith Mandapaya mounted on a truck chanting pirith.

Several monks from the temples of adjacent villages participated and the organisers plan to make it an annual event





Hayleys Business Solutions International (Pvt) Ltd., the Hayleys Group's Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) and Shared Services outfit has announced the appointment of the top notch engineering and accounting professional Dr. Arul Sivagananathan as the company's Managing Director effective January 2011.

Dr. Sivagananathan PhD (USA), MBA (Cranfield-UK), FCMA (UK), BEng(Hons) (London), AMIE (SL) was previously the Senior Vice President overlooking the Sri Lankan and Indian Finance and Accounting Operations of WNS Global Services, a BPO company listed on the NYSE.

A pioneer in setting up end-to-end Finance & Accounting outsourcing in Sri Lanka, Dr. Sivagananathan set up the first shared services in WNS for a Global Multinational company, consolidating over 12 locations across multiple countries in to one centre in India. He has built several Centres of Excellence in F&A functions both in India and Sri Lanka.

A qualified Engineer from the University of London and a member of the Institute of Engineers – Sri Lanka, he commenced his professional career as a Civil Engineer, leading the World Trade Centre Project in Sri Lanka as the Project Engineer from inception to completion. Dr. Sivagananathan is currently a Fellow Member of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (FCMA-UK), and has served as Resident Manager Sri Lanka for HSBC before joining WNS to set up its Sri Lanka operations in 2004.

"Arul's extensive international experience in the BPO sector and his proven expertise in engineering and accounting will be invaluable to the company's plans to become a global BPO provider," Hayleys PLC Chairman Mohan Pandithage said.

He said Hayleys Business Solutions International and its Shared Services operation 'Hayleys Aquila' intend leveraging Sri Lanka's competitive advantage as well as their unique experience in catering to diverse industry needs of the Hayleys conglomerate to offer services to international clients seeking to outsource their finance and accounting requirements.

Established in 1878 and four times adjudged Sri Lanka's Best Corporate Citizen, the Hayleys Group employs more than 30,000 people, and accounts for 2.45 per cent of the country's export income.





The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (ICASL) will kick off the New Year with the ceremonial launch of three high-end IT products and two IT-based accounting courses at the 'ICASL e-Launch 2011'. The strategic partner at the event is ICTA who have played a pivotal role in the development of some of these products; while IFS has partnered the event as associate partner.

The launch scheduled for the 13th of January 2011 at 6.00 pm at the Institute's auditorium, will see the unveiling of the Multimedia Learning Guides (MMLG), the Online Course Management System (OCMS), the Library System and the Student and Member Management System (SMMS); two of which also won Special Merit awards at the recently held e-Swabhimani 2010 Award Ceremony. The product unveiling will coincide with the launching of the Diploma in Computer Based Accounting, which is conducted by the IT Training Division of ICASL in collaboration with the Faculty of Management of the University of Sri Jayewardenepura and the launch of 'Forensic Accounting and Fraud Detection using IT and CAATs'

The chief guest at the ceremony would be Information and Communication Technology Agency Chairman Professor P. W. Epasinghe, while Prof. Sampath Amaratunga Dean Faculty of Management Studies and Commerce – University of Sri Jayewardenepura would grace the occasion as the guest of honour. The Chief Executive Officer of ICTA, Reshan Devapura will also address the audience as a special guest.

ICASL has an IT Training facility with 120 computers and trains around 8,000 students every year. The Institute is constantly striving to ensure that their students and members are IT literate and geared to face the challenges posed by technological changes. Apart from providing training facilities for ICASL students that is mandatory under the new curricular, currently, ICASL IT Training Division also offers the Diploma in Information Systems, Security, Control & Audit (DISSCA) in collaboration with the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI), among other numerous IT courses. DISSCA is an attractive qualification for today's professionals that covers vital areas such as Information Technology Infrastructure & Communication Technologies, Protection of Information Assets, Information Systems Security, Control & Audit processes, and Business Continuity Planning. Successful candidates at the previous batch who completed the final examination of DISSCA will also receive certificates at the ceremony.

60 new training partners...

Meanwhile, ICASL approved 60 new training organisations during 2010, further expanding its network of training organisations.

The training organisations are a key stakeholder group of ICASL and the Institute maintains a good working partnership with them. Many of these Institutions have arrangements to absorb these trainees to their permanent carder as they complete the qualification as Chartered Accountants. The training organisations also benefit through this reciprocal arrangement that give them access to knowledge workers who are far superior to the clerical workers; at a significant cost advantage.

During the year, the Institute introduced a facility for trainees and supervising members to maintain training records electronically thorough ICASL website. Further, the Institute has facilitated students to apply for training opportunities directly thought its website. ICASL revised its training allowances in line with the industry standards during 2010 which is another positive move that has been received well by its stakeholders.





Portugal will come under pressure this week to accept a multi-billion euro bail-out from the European Union and International Monetary Fund.

France and Germany are said to be anxious for it to seek help "sooner rather than later" to prevent a renewed eurozone crisis.

The bail-out could total up to euro 80billion, with Britain forced to accept a liability for a small portion of the money.

Ireland was forced to accept similar financial help last year after several weeks of resisting pressure from fellow EU members.

International investors are concerned about Portugal's debts and the EU is worried that the crisis may soon spread to Spain.

On Wednesday, Portugal will attempt to raise money on the international bond markets and this may prove the catalyst for talks over a bail-out. Yesterday, it was reported that preliminary private discussions had already been held.

The Portuguese government denied that it required international help or that it was under pressure from France and Germany to accept a bail-out. The German finance minister also denied putting pressure on Portugal but said "all the mechanisms are in place"if a bail-out was requested.

Ireland issued similar denials before accepting an international loan and a senior eurozone source said yesterday: "France and Germany have indicated in the context of the eurogroup that Portugal should apply for help sooner rather than later."

The Portuguese government will increase taxes and cut public sector pay as part of an austerity drive, but is facing widespread strikes.

There are fears that the crisis will spread to Spain, which has an economy twice the size of Portugal, Greece and Ireland combined.





The All Share Price Index closed at 6,916.63, up 0.36 percent (24.67 points) while the Milanka Price Index of more liquid stocks closed at 7,281.83, down 0.07 percent (05.05 points) according to stock exchange provisional figures.

Turnover was five billion rupees.

Sampath Bank closed at 294.90, up 4.10 rupees with over 1.3 million shares changing hand with two crossing of 500,000 shares at 300.00 done.

The biggest contributor to trading was Laugfs Gas with its voting shares closing at 42.00, up 5.40 with over 14 million shares traded. Non-voting shares closed at 37.50, up 7.70 with 8.8 million shares changing hands.

Dialog Axaita shares closed at 11.80, down 0.20 cents with over six million shares done.









Recently, it was reported that the Minister of Higher Education is planning to establish more private universities in Sri Lanka. Some foreign investors expect to spend billions of dollars to establish such universities. Though certain groups are against this move and there are controversial arguments about this, there are certain favourable things in this decision. Minimising the trend of westernisation of our society will indirectly benefit us through this plan. Local students will be able to stay in their motherland during the entire study period without leaving for certain countries which are deteriorating rapidly in terms of humanity. Extreme indulgence in sensual pleasures is all that matters to most westerners. They are hell bent to squeeze the neck of people in poor countries for the sake of gratification of their senses. Most of them are not familiar with words such as compassion, sympathetic joy, equanimity etc. Words familiar to them include hatred, revenge, and jealousy and so on. Therefore, I appreciate the move to set up private universities in Sri Lanka without hindering the free education system (as mentioned by the minister), where exposure to such inhuman behaviour in westernised countries is minimal.









The second module of the series of panel discussions organized by the Sri Lanka Institute of Directors on 'Contemporary Views on Corporate Stewardship & Boardroom Governance' took place at the Ivy room of the Cinnamon Grand Colombo recently. Titled 'An Effective Audit & Risk Committee', it drew a full house despite the torrential rain that inundated the streets of Colombo that day.

The expert panel consisted of very high profile personalities from the accounting and audit fraternity of Sri Lanka. Leading the panel was Deshamanya Deva Rodrigo who is presently an Independent Director of John Keells Holdings PLC, and holds the distinction of being a founder partner and subsequent Senior Partner of Pricewaterhouse Coopers as well as former Chairman of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce. The rest of the panel consisted of Mrs. Marina Tharmaratnam, the Immediate Past President of the Sri Lanka Institute of Directors, and the former CEO and current Independent Director of Union Assurance PLC, Mrs. Shirani Jayasekera, Head of Internal Audit of Carsons Cumberbatch PLC, Mr. Manil Jayasinghe, Senior Partner of Ernest & Young, Mr. Arjuna Gunaratne, Director of Central Finance Company PLC & Mr. Sarath Ganegoda, Financial Director of Hayleys PLC.

The audit committee is a primary component of the management of an organization regardless of it being a private, public or listed company. A committee which consists of Independent Directors, its importance is highlighted by the Colombo Stock Exchange Regulatory Code which makes it compulsory for listed companies to include an audit committee. The audit committee strives to promulgate better practices of corporate governance in an organization by protecting the independence of the auditor and safeguarding the company's financial standing by looking after the integrity of its financial statements & internal control system.

The Challenger, Desh. Deva Rodrigo stated that the role of the audit committee consists of ensuring that the external audit is effective, that they have the right qualifications, competence, experience and most importantly that they are independent. It also has to monitor the performance of the external auditor and the internal auditor and the compliance with the rules and regulations of a listed company, the Companies Act and other legislation." Commenting on the safeguards against the undue removal of auditors, he stressed the importance of Sri Lanka adopting the mechanism currently prevalent in the USA, in which a company is required to fill in and circulate a form amongst the shareholders whenever an auditor is changed stating any major disagreements the management had with the auditor in the last 2 years.

On the area of wider risk management, which is considered as a responsibility of the audit committee, the audit committee charter is utilized in order to restrict the scope of risk management the committee is expected to do. This in turn may involve aspects such as operational risk, market risk, reputational risk and others that have evolved over the years.

Audit Committee Charter...

The nature and process of the audit committee charter was then handled by Mr. Manil Jayasinghe. Describing the charter, he stated that it "not only contains the functions of the audit committee but also lays down the composition and the roles and responsibilities of the audit committee whilst ensuring and enhancing the quality of the financial reporting." Various other matters ranging from the organizational composition; such as how many directors, either independent or executive, should be appointed to an organization and their qualifications and the number of meetings, the appraisal of the committee by the board to principles relating to audit such as the integrity of the financial statements and the effectiveness of the internal controls are included in the audit committee charter.

The extent of internal controls handled by the committee is limited in that it applies only in respect of financial reporting. In addition, compliance with the legal and regulatory requirements together with the internal audit functions and the oversight of the external audit functions too must be included in the charter

On risk management, it is the financial risk aspect such as market risk, liquidity risk, accounting and financial reporting which have a direct impact on the financial reporting which needs to be assessed by the committee. Financial reporting on the other hand can be assessed by quarterly reporting or even more frequently in order to perform the auditing function reasonably.

Also on external audit, it is primarily the oversight role; the appointment, the remuneration or compensation, the retention of auditors and so on, that comes within the purview of the audit committee. Even though this area may not be practiced in Sri Lanka, overseas, companies go to the extent of evaluating the competence and performance of the auditors and to having internal quality controls.

Related party transactions, oversight over internal audit, the hiring and removal of the Chief Internal Officer / Internal Audit Director, compliance oversight & code of ethics were among the other functions of the audit committee that were mentioned. Also with regard to issues of whistle blowing provisions, it was suggested that there needs to be a mechanism to ensure such complaints and areas that have been raised gets to the audit committee and that there is a proper mechanism for the resolution of these.

The audit charter can also be utilized as a self evaluation system by the committee with reviewing and evaluating their functions which can be done annually for better results. Jayasinghe concluded by pointing out that in keeping with the performance of all of these functions, the audit committee must be given powers to hire or cause any investigation it deems fit to satisfy its objectives. He referred to the system prevalent in the USA where an audit committee calls upon external people to give the different views so that it can decide whether the organization has adopted the right choice.

Objectives...

Mrs. Tharmaratnam who addressed the gathering on the composition and the selection process of the audit committee laid down the qualities expected of the members of the audit committee as follows; independence, knowledge and skills, a financial knowledge and knowledge of the business.

A question was raised as to whether the responsibility of financial reporting extends to the point that you would even carry out a review of the information that is presented to the board particularly in terms of risk management. The panelists were of the view that it is the responsibility of the audit committee to drive the risk management process and get that information to the board and that in doing so it needs to take the total business as a whole into consideration. This is so, as the final goal is the sustainability of the business.

On the matter of the ultimate objective of the audit committee; whether it is limited to considering whether it is going to be a growing concern or extends to determining whether the strategies and objectives of the organization have been realized, Jayasinghe was of the view that even though it is debatable, technically risk is the responsibility of the board. He also made the point that in the event that an audit committee takes over all of the responsibilities there would be no need for a board. It must be born in mind that the audit committee is after all a sub committee of the board and does what the board delegates it to do.

The audit committee has to review the independent external auditor's qualifications, their independence, ability to perform and the appointments and reappointments of independent auditors. They also need to maintain free communication with the internal as well as the external auditors preferably in the form of meetings without the presence of the management.

Internal and External Auditors...

Mr. Jayasinghe laid down the similarities between the roles and the working relationship between the internal and external auditors as follows. "Both parties should be independent, objective and have input integrity in that if there is something to be reported on, it has to be done even if it is very sensitive. The internal audit must approach the audit committee and discuss it and see how to deal with it. External auditors however have a different responsibility. In other matters both must be presented with the audit plan, they should challenge it, appraise it and give their input by way of clear and concise reports. The action plan to control those weak areas should be agreed and accepted by both parties; the management as well as the audit.

Concentrating on the differences, external audit deals in areas such as true and fair reviews whereas internal audit is more of the business part of it such as delivering corporate objectives. Also the independence of the external auditor is generally higher than the internal auditor. Hence in external audit, partner rotation is required every 5 years even though it is not mandatory for internal auditors. It is important for internal auditors to have a good understanding of the business which can be done by getting people from the business to work with internal audit for short periods which will enable them to get insights in to what is required by way of internal controls."

Speaking on the subject of internal controls, Mr. Gunaratne referred to the internal control framework as the backbone of a company in handling risk because it makes sure that the company gains reliable financial information and has an efficient and robust operational procedure which lays down formal policy guidelines and defines accountabilities and responsibilities. It will also make sure that the company complies with the various regulatory requirement and legislations in place.

In making sure that this internal control framework is effective the board itself can set the tone for a control conscious environment at the top by showing that the governance structure is strong and that it believes in integrity and values by showing that compliance is taken seriously with repercussions in force if control mechanisms are not adhered to. Gunaratne expressing his views said "Very often companies tend to look at the growing of the business at the expense of controls. That mindset must be brought in and it must be ensured that the audit committee sets the right controls and that this should not be considered as an impediment to the speed of business, but as a very important part of the business itself."

"Audit committees also need to pay special attention towards matters such as the methodology with regard to these controls, their proper functioning and the availability of the right kind of information systems which do the reporting and highlight when things are not falling into place." He singled out IT operations as one of the common segments to which organizations should concentrate more in relation to control framework. With the expansion of business transactions and the complexities of business systems taking place, companies are faced with more risks which require expert and careful handling.

Risk Management...

The subject of Risk Management was taken up by Mrs. Jayasekera who began her discussion by explaining briefly the terms of risk and control. Risk was defined as anything that comes between a person and his/her objective and control as anything done in the process of managing that risk. Using the example of a man climbing a mountain, she impressed upon all that, as process owners people are responsible for meeting their objectives i.e. reaching the peak of the mountain, for identifying the risks i.e. having the proper climbing equipment, and finally, being in control. The auditors will thereafter overview, review and give an opinion on whether or not he has managed his controls, but that will be done only after the event. Therefore the process owner is responsible for his own actions and responsible to meet his own objectives. She also pointed out that risk management is not about putting too much of controls so that you become risk averse but about balancing your internal controls and being proactive rather than being reactive.

On the subject of best practices, she touched upon the COSO Enterprise Risk Management, a process applied in strategy setting, identifying potential events and in managing those events to be within the risk appetite. "Risk appetite can be defined as the amount of risk that an entity is willing to accept at a broad level in pursuit of value. An example would be a multinational company that states that its risk appetite is to grow profits and cash flow at the rate of 18 – 25% but which eventually rises to 30% within the year. That might be too much and they may need to look and review the level of risk they are willing to take - in other words, its risk appetite." Jayasekera also pointed out that the risk appetite of a company must be uniform and should not take the form of a yo-yo over the years.

Presently there is an ISO 31000:2009 standard which sets down guidelines on how to manage risks. This contains 11 principles on risk management, some of which state that risk management should create value, it should be an integral part of an organizationprocesses and it must be part of decision making; hence making it a normal business process rather than a separate meeting on risk. She concluded her discussion by stating that risk management can be a very important business driver and also that the tone at the top which drives that risk management is important in making the strategic plans come alive right down to all levels of your business.

The audit committee as a specialized body appointed by the board to perform certain specialized tasks, needs to comply with laws and regulations as a part of its mandate. This is particularly so with regard to those with a direct significance to tasks such as financial reporting. Since non compliance, with regulations has an impact not only on the financial statements but also on the company, its reputation and also the reports that the company presents, it is important that one does deviate from regulations.

Financial and Operating controls...

Basing his views on the subject of internal controls, Jayasinghe described the distinction between financial controls and operating controls for financial reporting and also the controls on the overall risk area by stating the following example. "If for example you take a product, you might have controls to minimize the product rejects in the production line. From a financial reporting point of view that process might not get evaluated. But once the reject happens, the capture of such occurrence and it being accounted for will be evaluated. In other words it is trying to distinguish between operating controls and financial reporting controls. In my view it is the latter that comes within the purview of audit committees and not necessarily to see whether you have the necessary checks and balances in the production flow which is an operational control."

Internal controls, risk management, risk control, checks, balance and procedures, all of the above are means used to ensure that business is run well in order to achieve its objectives. Apart from these, it also needs to be ensured that no fraudulent or unethical practices take place during this process and that the results of the business are accurately and timely reported. These results are then communicated to the stakeholders through financial statements.

Speaking on the above Ganegoda stated that it is mandatory that listed companies issue quarterly statements and annual financial statements; balance sheet, P&L, cash flow and various other information so that the stakeholders get a good view on what is going on with regards to the company. Likewise even large unlisted companies have audit committees that meet and discuss these reports in detail before the board adopts the quarterly and annual financial statements, which is another method used in order to ensure that the correct statements are issued to the stakeholders.

Internal audit is used by companies to establish a direct communication with the audit committee. The committee meets with the internal auditors prior to the audit committee meeting and gets feedback on these matters which are then discussed in detail during the audit committee meetings. The minutes of this meeting is then made available to the Board of Directors. Therefore this mechanism ensures that financial statements are adopted by a company's board based on the recommendations of the audit committee. This can be adopted for any price sensitive information and is not necessarily limited to financial statements. Hence an effective audit committee in reality makes the life of Directors much easier. Since the members of the audit committee are Non Executive Directors who possess very limited amount of information pertaining to the day to day business activities, it is very important that this communication link is established between the audit committee and the internal auditor.

Reviews...

A question was raised by a participant as to the ability of the audit committee to perform all of the said functions during its limited time capacity which is four meetings a year. Answering the above, Jayasinghe stated that the quarterly meeting procedure was a result of the mandatory requirement of quarterly reporting. However, the audit charter can lay down the frequency of audit committee meetings depending on the size and complexity of the organization. The frequency of meetings may also depend on the scope of COSO, of strategic oversight and risk. Also apart from the standard audit committee meetings, the members of the committee can also set up informal meetings with the Management in order to review the controls. It was also suggested that the management must perform these duties and the audit committee must ensure that the management actually does so. Another view that was observed was that risk management must be taken into the strategic planning process and thereafter driven in the implementation stage, thus making it more effective and supportive towards the achievement of goals.

It was also felt that the members of the audit committee must have the finesse and experience to ask the right kind of questions both from the management as well as the auditors in order to ensure that the correct assignment is being done.

"What ultimately must be perceived is that risk management is a very extensive area and whether the audit committee should go into its entire depth of it depends on the normal of the 5 objectives of the audit committee, mentioned in the audit charter of which one is the internal control over financial reporting and not beyond."

Rodrigo got the participants actively involved in the discussion, and judging by the questions asked and the feed back given, this was yet another very successful session of the Contemporary Views on Corporate Stewardship and Boardroom Governance series conducted by the Sri Lanka Institute of Directors.

The next module in this series is scheduled for Thursday 13th January on "An Efficient Nomination and Remuneration Committee" at the Ivy Room of the Cinnamon Grand. This will be lead by the prominent banker Mr Rajendra Theagarajah CEO/MD HNB of Bank PLC, and ably supported by the top most rung of senior corporate directors of the caliber of Dr. Anura Ekanayake Chairman of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Preethi Jayawardena MD/CEO of Chemanex PLC, Mr. Asite Talwatte Country Manager/ Partner Ernest & Young and Mr. Rizvi Zaheed, Director Hayleys PLC.





The Ministry of Industries and Commerce in a statement issued yesterday (10) said it held fruitful talks with officials of the US Embassy to create linkages between the rural economy with global markets.

The ministry said it was developing a 'Peace Collection' of branded rural produce and that it would initially support supply chain development for rural industries such as handloom, pottery, vegetables and fruits.

The Academy of Design working with rural micro-enterprises is expected to create products for the US export market as part of the first phase of the Peace Collection initiative. The ministry said the US Ambassador, Ms. Patricia Butenis, responded positively to this initiative and expressed her willingness to support it.

Chairman of the advisory committee of the Ministry of Industries and Commerce, Rohantha Athukorala said the 'Peace Collection' would link producers in the North and East with global markets and that US department store Macy's has already agreed to accommodate goods from Sri Lanka under the 'Peace Collection' brand.

Minister of Industries and Commerce Rishard Bathiudeen said the 'Peace Collection' initiative was part of a Rs. 300 million plan to create one million economic units to the small and medium enterprises sector of the country.

Nawaz Rajabdeen, former President of the Federation of Chambers of Commerce and Industries of Sri Lanka (FCCISL) now attached to the Sri Lanka office of the United Nations Industrial Development Organisation (UNIDO) said that the project would receive seed funding and technical expertise to ensure sustainability.





New Delhi, January 10, 2011: Mano Selvanathan, who received this year's Pravasi Bharatiya Samman, is one of Sri Lanka's leading industrialists.

As an industry leader and one with extensive business interest in Sri Lanka and India, Selvanathan has been instrumental in introducing Indian business to the island nation.

Apart from chairing Sri Lanka's largest chamber of commerce, he was Founder-Chairman of the Indo-Lanka Chamber of Commerce and Industry.

Selvanathan pursues a strong interest in philanthropy. His family trust contributes to a number of charitable causes in education, healthcare and care for the elderly. He is also recognised for his social work with the overseas Indian community .(The Hindu)





The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) is providing emergency food assistance for nearly 400,000 persons in the Eastern Province who have been affected badly by the floods.

Ms. Diluka Piyasena of WFP told The Island that the food assistance would consist of some 735 tons of dry rations, including rice, dhal, sugar and pulses. This amount may have to be increased depending on the weather and ground situation, she said.

This food assistance costs almost Rs. 55 million and the initial distribution got underway last week with 105 tons for nearly 75,000 people lasting four days.

The WFP will distribute the assistance among the remaining 325,000 persons in the coming week. The distribution is being co-ordinated by the Ministry of Economic Development, Ministry of Disaster Management and the respective District Secretaries.





Colombo, 8th January 2011 - The High Commissioner of Canada, Bruce Levy, called on the Minister for Traditional Industries and Small Enterprise Development, Douglas Devananda, to discuss issues of mutual interest including the political reconciliation process in Sri Lanka.

The role of the Diaspora in the rebuilding and development of the country took prominence during the exchanges with the High Commissioner making the point that Canadians of Sri Lankan origin could be a valuable resource. Other matters discussed included infrastructure development, the security situation in the Jaffna peninsula and issues relating to resettlement. The High Commissioner expressed Canada's desire to work together with Sri Lanka to constructively ensure that the people emerging from decades of conflict can have productive and meaningful lives. He also underlined the importance of mechanisms to build confidence among all parties concerned, especially the Diaspora and the government.

Canada is a long standing development partner of Sri Lanka, dating back to the earliest days of the Colombo Plan. It has also assisted in humanitarian emergencies, including after the devastating tsunami in 2004 and, more recently, in the resettlement of the IDPs.

Canada is home to the largest Sri Lankan Diaspora in the world, thought to exceed 300,000.





Dr Mervin Silva, Minister of Public Relations and Public Affairs, made a token donation of eye-corneas, from Sri Lanka, to the Red Cross Eye Bank of Thailand as a gesture of goodwill and longstanding friendly relations between the two countries.

Prof Lalida thanked the Sri Lankan Minister for the grand gesture which now allows the Red Cross Eye Bank to request corneas from Sri Lanka for grafting to deserving recipients. The corneas are expected to be sent within 24-hours of the request being received.

The Minister who toured Cambodia and Myanmar made a similar donation in Yangong.

The presentation to the Thai Red Eye Bank was made at the Sri Lankan Embassy in Bangkok. Also In the picture are Ambassador Prof J. B. Disanayaka and Mrs Mervin Silva.









When you look around the leading business institutions of today you can't help but notice that a lot of them have foreigners as CEOs. These worthies enjoy astronomical salaries and benefit packages and are treated like demigods within the respective industries.

I can't help but wonder why? What does an expatriate know about running a business in this Country that a seasoned and qualified professional with "local knowledge" doesn't know?

If you look at the businesses that have foreign CEOs, the banking sector, the telecom sector the garment sector, tourism and even semi-government corporations, is there a marked improvement in performance from those run by locals? I would even go so far as to suggest that the reverse is the case!

What is the use of a Harvard Business School degree or X number of years of working under severe pressure in Outer Mongolia going to do for you in Sri Lanka if you don't have the correct contacts or enough political nous to work out who is going to run the show next? If you don't realize that the Sinhala Goviya in the hill country has a different set of values and perceptions to those of the other stratas of society, are you going to have any success with the millions you spend on advertising campaigns that go nowhere ?

An expatriate has to rely on local knowledge and our local managers' are beginning to realize that expats' come and go but they have to carve out a relatively long term career for themselves. The 'advice' that foreigners get is often biased and tinted by ulterior motives that lead to gain for the local and disaster for the expatriate.

Advertising agencies are making a killing by 'selling' hot ideas backed by local staff on the take to a 'text book' foreign CEO. Meanwhile the golf clubs and other high class watering holes are also thriving on the custom of these people with money to burn. There is a class now, which only works in expatriate households and advertising houses; 'even suitable for foreigners' has been the order of the day for decades now.

One way of ensuring that this possible hurdle is avoided is to run the company as if it were operating in the environment of the parent company. Make no allowance whatsoever for local conditions and run it out of an idiot proof manual. In that case too why bother with a highly paid expatriate? Is it to dilute your profit and avoid paying local taxes? Or maybe give a job to a long time servant of your company now bordering on senile decay!

Does any of this sound familiar to those of you who work for organizations run by expatriate bosses?

If so join in the debate and as for issuing visas for these individuals and denying jobs to up and coming Sri Lankans'....ever wonder if there are OTHER reasons for the ongoing brain drain?









A tremendous interest has been generated in the development circles to broaden the knowledge base on the subject of Participatory Community Development. There is a gap created by the dearth of books published on this subject in the Sinhala language. The book authored by Piyasena Wellakkage has adequately bridged this gap and it was launched yesterday at the Sri Lanka Foundation Institute.

Wellakkage is a senior retired SLAS officer who had the rare privilege of serving 50 years in public sector. It is a significant feature that his experience as a pioneer in implementing 'Participatory Development Approach' as well as his theoretical knowledge in the subject is reflected in this book.

This book titled 'Participatory Development and Social Mobilization', written in Sinhala, contains a wealth of information on the subject.





