Those involved in impeachment rewarded - JVP

'Ministerial staff now over 1,300 strong'

January 29, 2013, 10:01 pm

by Shamindra Ferdinando

JVP Propaganda Secretary and parliamentarian Vijitha Herath yesterday alleged that Ratnapura District MP Pavitra Wanniarachchi had been rewarded for her role in the high-profile campaign to impeach Chief Justice Dr. Shirani Bandaranayake.

Herath was referring to Wanniarachchi receiving the power and energy portfolio at the expense of Patali Champika Ranawaka, at Monday's mini-cabinet reshuffle. JHU nominee Ranawaka was given the Technology, Research and Atomic Energy portfolio, which Ms Wanniarachchi held earlier.

Addressing the media at JVP headquarters in Pelawatte, Battaramulla, Herath pointed out that Wanniarachchi had led those who handed over the impeachment motion against Dr. Bandaranayake to Speaker Chamal Rajapaksa.

The JVPer said that Anura Priyadarshana Yapa, Chairman of the Parliamentary Select Committee (PSC),

which found Dr. Bandaranayake guilty on some of the allegations made by 117 UPFA members, too, had been rewarded at the expense of UPFA General Secretary Susil Premjayantha, who lost the Petroleum Industries portfolio to Yapa. Premjayanth ended up with the environment portfolio, previously held by Yapa. He was also given the renewable energy portfolio, which was earlier handled by the Power and Energy Minister.

Herath alleged that President Rajapaksa reshuffled the cabinet as he wanted to give a boost to those who spearheaded the operation against Dr. Bandaranayake. He emphasized that the situation at the Petroleum and Power ministries didn't warrant changes at the top. The JVP propaganda chief dismissed the assertion that ministers Premjayantha and Ranawaka weren't efficient hence changes necessary.

The JVP said that Education Minister Bandula Gunawardena, too, had his wings clipped with Duminda Dissanayake being appointed Educational Services Minister in the wake of a dispute at a recent meeting over the distribution of school uniform material. The JVP alleged that Minister Gunawardena got into trouble due to him taking a position contrary to that of the powers that be.

Herath said that with the appointment given to Dissanayake, there were two ministers, two deputy ministers and a monitoring MP though the education sector was in chaos. The JVPer said that the government had caused irreparable damage to education.

He said that the UPFA's 69-member jumbo sized cabinet had a 1,035 strong staff, whereas deputy ministers' staff comprised 280 workers. Of the 69 ministers, two were not in the cabinet, though they enjoyed all perks and privileges given to their cabinet colleagues. The MP said that vast majority of 1,315 staffers were family members of politicians and relatives maintained at taxpayers' expense.

Herath said that there were 28 Deputy Ministers, though some of them exercised ministerial powers. According to him, those struggling to make ends meet had been forced to undergo further burdens due to a top heavy government squandering public funds.

Herath ridiculed the creation of a new portfolio in the name of Botanical Gardens and Public Recreation when ordinary people were finding it extremely difficult to survive due to the spiraling cost of living. The MP said that Kurunegala District MP Jayaratne Herath, in his new capacity as the minister in charge of Botanical Gardens and Public Recreation, could provide entertainment to the suffering masses.

Could anything be as ridiculous as appointing a sugar industries minister, he said. The day the UPFA appointed ministers for dhal, coconut and rice wouldn't be far away, the MP said.





Verbruggen, who headed the UCI during Armstrong's domination of the Tour de France, said the federation's policy was part of a "two-pronged attack" on doping at a time when it had an "impressive" record of catching drug cheats.

"It used to be the UCI's policy — and indeed also of other federations — to discuss atypical blood test results, or other test results, with the riders concerned," Verbruggen said in a statement provided to The Associated Press.





Asia stocks mixed ahead of US debt ceiling vote

January 23, 2013, 9:01 pm

BANGKOK (AP) — Asian stock markets were mixed Wednesday ahead of a U.S. vote on raising the nation's borrowing limit.

Analysts said that stock markets had room for gains if U.S. lawmakers make progress on raising the debt ceiling. The House is set to vote on a motion to increase the nation's $16.4 trillion borrowing authority for three months.

Without congressional action, the Treasury sometime in late February or early March will not have enough money to pay for all of its obligations, creating the possibility of a first-ever default on the government's debts. "A vote is expected today, and if it is passed as expected it should clear the very short term obstacles for risk appetite, although battles on automatic spending cuts and the budget itself are not so long away," said analysts at Credit Agricole CIB in a market commentary. Japan's Nikkei 225 index fell 0.8 percent to 10,623.66, a day after the country's central bank announced widely expected measures to help the economy, including open-ended asset purchases starting in 2014. Analysts said investors were disappointed that the central bank didn't take more aggressive measures.

Strong earnings reports from big U.S. companies helped push the Dow Jones industrial average to its eighth gain in nine sessions Tuesday. The gains came despite a report showing sales of previously occupied homes dipped in December from November.

The news wasn't as bad as it looked. Sales rose last year to 4.65 million, a 9.2 percent increase from the previous year and the most in five years.

Benchmark oil for March delivery was down 4 cents to $96.64 per barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract rose 68 cents to close at $96.24 a barrel on the Nymex on Tuesday.

In currencies, the euro fell to $1.3315 from $1.3317 in New York on Tuesday. The dollar fell to 88.62 yen from 88.76 yen.





SF not satisfied with Polls Chief's explanation

*Says since ex-CJ still thinks she is CJ she is not ready to do politics

January 29, 2013, 10:07 pm

War winning Army Commander and Leader of the Democratic National Alliance Gen. Sarath Fonseka, who met Elections Commissioner Mahinda Deshapriya yesterday, to discuss the stock of marked ballot papers from the last presidential election on the main road at Kalagedihena recently, said he was not satisfied with the explanation trotted out by the polls chief.

The DNA Leader said that the Commissioner's explanation that it was from a bundle of 500 ballot papers that had accidentally fallen from a lorry, that was transporting counted ballot papers from Nuwara Eliya for destruction, was not plausible.

Gen. Fonseka asked why they waited so long to destroy those ballot papers as their appeal too had been rejected by the Supreme Court by the end of 2010. "Why did they wait so long? We can't believe it. It is a confusing story," he said.

Elections Commissioner Mahinda Deshapriya has already gone on record stating that he accepted the responsibility for the lapse and apologized for it.

The Commissioner has also told the General that he would appoint a committee to probe the DNA leader's complaint.

Gen. Fonseka had also raised the issue of the continuing rejection of the registration of his party by the Elections Department on the basis of minor technicalities, which he termed "unnecessary delays and blocks".

"I asked him if they were there to ensure democracy, why they were not helping to correct those errors? In a democracy these things are not justifiable. He should help to get through those obstacles. We feel there is no justice," the General said.

In reply the Elections Commissioner had told the DNA Leader to submit a fresh application through the Human Rights Commission.

Asked about the rejection of his repeated overture to impeached Chief Justice Dr. Shirani Bandaranayake to join him, he said he invited her to join him to topple the current regime as he felt that she too had suffered an injustice like him, "but since she feels that she is still the CJ, I don't think she is ready to do politics."









The Indo-Lanka Joint Study Group says the governments of the two South Asian neighbours should promote greater understanding of the negotiations behind the Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement (CEPA).

The CEPA, touted by many economists and technocrats to be a step in the right direction, which would help Sri Lanka enter its next stage of development, was abandoned after a nationalistic lobby prevented the government from going ahead with the new deal. India's myriad-layered archaic bureaucracy and problems in the existing FTA helped fuel, in no small measure, these negative sentiments.

A recent report submitted to the two governments by the Indo-Lanka Joint Study Group (see page 4) said apart from promoting greater understanding of the CEPA negotiation process there was a need to address residual issues, particularly non-tariff barriers and other impediments, in the implementation of current FTA.

"This would help create a positive environment for the negotiations, providing greater transparency and taking into account the need to deal effectively with the asymmetry between the two economies," the report said.

"It is likely that irritants may surface from time to time. This is natural between two countries located so close to each other and asymmetrical in many aspects. Situations will continue to arise where vested interests exploit them to achieve their narrow ends at the expense of the traditionally close bilateral relations. Such developments may test the patience of the peoples and even political leaders of the two countries, thereby limiting the space to resolve such differences through consultations. The relationship should be strong enough to withstand such challenges, with the political leadership addressing such situations, not through emotions, but statesmanship, thereby further strengthening the traditionally close relationship.

"Lack of candour and accommodation in bilateral interactions should be replaced by frank dialogue between political leaders and other interlocutors on either side, thereby removing opportunities for negative political orchestration by interested parties and individuals. The adversarial elements of the relationship that had emerged, from time to time, should be replaced with mutual trust, openness and understanding of the contentious issues involved. It is time to reset Indo-Lanka relations," the group said.

The Indo-Lanka Joint Study group, set up under a joint initiative of the Manipal Global Education (MaGE) of India and the Pathfinder Foundation of Sri Lanka, has called for a Road Map 2035 for economic relations consulting/associating with, as necessary, corporate sectors, academic communities and strategic communities/think-tanks of the two countries.

"To this end, entrust the Institute of Policy Studies (IPS) Colombo and the Research Information System for Developing Countries (RIS) New Delhi to update and expand the 1991-1992 RIS-Wider Study, within the next year, with the view to providing a comprehensive projection of bilateral economic relations in their multifarious dimensions over the next two decades."

It also said Sri Lankan enterprises need help to plug into Indian supply chains in manufacturing and services.

"In this connection the recently announced Indian initiative for developing an automotive component industry and a pharmaceutical hub in Sri Lanka signals an important breakthrough that needs to be built upon," the group said.

According to the IPS, the CEPA negotiations had taken into account the asymmetries between the two countries. For example, Indian professionals were to be allowed into Sri Lanka only for specific sectors, and this too accompanied by investments.

Prof. Sirimal Abeyratne, Head of the Economics Department, University of Colombo, in a preliminary study for the Pathfinder Foundation, said Sri Lanka could not develop its economy in a globalised world by ignoring India, which is expected to lead, along with China, world economic growth driven by Asia.

He argued that Sri Lanka should liberalise trade. "We have a better chance of succeeding outside a protectionist stance, and models such as FTAs and CEPAs that promote protectionism will not help the country develop and grow a vibrant export economy," Prof. Abeyratne told journalists recently in response to a query raised by The Island Financial Review as to the importance of finalising the CEPA with India.

"Economic freedom does not come with FTAs and CEPAs. Instead citizens must be empowered to trade with any country on an equal footing. We need a policy regime that supports businesses and helps them find opportunities in overseas markets. Unfortunately, we do not have a regime that helps our exports sector. The country is becoming increasingly protectionist. Interest rates are manipulated and the exchange rate is not realistic. All these factors erode the competitiveness of our exports," Prof. Abeyratne said.

Sri Lanka's export earnings have been declining as a percentage of GDP for years (from 33 percent in 2001 to 17 percent in 2011), exposing a structural weakness in the economy, prone to external vulnerabilities. In 2008/9 and 2011/12 the country faced balance of payments problems.





Spinners drive Dhamasoka home for lunch

Under-19 School Cricket

January 23, 2013, 10:54 pm

by Reemus Fernando

Spinners Ramesh Mendis and Yohan de Silva collected match bags of nine and eight wickets respectively as Dharmasoka College registered an innings and 27 run victory over Revata College in their Under-19 tournament match ended before lunch at Balapitiya yesterday.

Chasing a target of 107 runs to win St. Sebastian's College were 46 for two wickets when bad light stopped play in their match against St. Joseph's College at Moratuwa yesterday. The home team earned first innings points in this tournament encounter as they posted 190 for nine declared after restricting Joes to 109 runs.

Put into bat, half-centuries by Hasitha Madushan, Charith Asalanka and A.K. Tyron powered Richmond College to 300 for seven wickets declared against Prince of Wales College on day one of the match at Moratuwa yesterday. The Cambrians were 47 for two wickets at close.

The match between De Mazenod College, Kandana and St. Sylvester's College, Kandy was abandoned without a ball being bowled on the second day due to wet weather conditions at the Pallekele International Stadium yesterday. De Mazenod were 279 for eight wickets overnight.





Another amendment to UNP constitution?

January 30, 2013, 7:38 am

by Zacki Jabbar

With the re-appointment of Sajith Premadasa as Deputy Leader of the UNP, yet to be sorted out, the party said yesterday that any move to decentralise the functions of office bearers would require a constitutional amendment.

UNP General Secretary Tissa Attanayake said that it was only the annual Convention that could approve changes to the Constitution. Since it was already over, a Special Convention would have to be summoned to consider any new suggestions.

Amidst widespread speculation that three deputy leaders are to be appointed to oversee different zones, he said that if and when such a proposal was mooted, it would have to first be placed before the Working Committee (WC), which was scheduled to meet only next month.

At last weeks gathering of the newly elected office bearers for this year, UNP leader Ranil Wickremesinghe had stressed that they will have to work as a team and not according to the agendas of individuals.

Pointing out that that difficulties had arisen in the past since certain members had repeatedly ignored the party whip's directives, he had called for a new approach if the UNP was to re-capture power.

Wickremesinghe had also observed that the deputy's role was to help the leader in his duties, but Sajith had failed in that respect. At a meeting between the two last week, Sajith had agreed to fall in line, but any further progress on the issue was likely only at the next WC meeting, informed sources said.









HR vetting for Lankan military to undergo US training

January 29, 2013, 9:56 pm

by Lynn Ockersz

All security forces personnel opting for military training programmes in the US are expected to undergo 'human rights vetting' by the US defense authorities. Those against whom 'credible reports of human rights violations' have been filed would not be in a position to obtain such training, the local media were told on Monday, at a 'round table' discussion with a group of visiting top US government officials.

The officials were responding to a query by the media as to what the factual position was with regard to allegations in top local defense circles, quoted in some sections of the media, that some Lankan security personnel, who had applied for military training in the US, were not being granted this facility by the US authorities. US Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for South and Southeast Asia Vikram Singh said that in all training programmes of a military or educational nature, provided by the US for applicants for these programmes from around the world, a human rights component is present and that the relevant applicants are not expected to be found wanting in the upholding of human rights norms.

Singh underlined the need for the application of human rights accountability mechanisms for those opting for US military training. He clarified that his government was not being judgmental by insisting on the maintenance of human rights standards by security personnel but, in Sri Lanka's case, was seeking to promote 'a forward-looking engagement, in all relevant aspects.' Rather than the US telling Sri Lanka to do this or that what the US was keen on finding out was, 'what we could do together.'

He added that it was only a minuscule number of personnel who failed to meet the standards in question and that ongoing training and educational programmes involving Lankan personnel, in the main, were 'very good.' Singh explained that the visiting US delegation's talks with Defense Secretary Gotabhaya Rajapaksa were very cordial and that greater military cooperation between the US and Sri Lanka depended on progress being made by Sri Lanka in the implementation of the LLRC recommendations.

When asked whether the US delegation sees any substantial progress in the implementation of the LLRC recommendations by the Lankan state, Deputy Assistant Secretary of State in the Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labour Jane Zimmerman said that they 'certainly see some progress, particularly in the areas of infrastructure development and the rehabilitation of former LTTE combatants, for instance', but that 'a lot more work 'remains to be done. For example, 'there are families still waiting for missing loved ones' and 'disappeared persons' to be accounted for. 'We would very much like to see accelerated implementation of the LLRC', Zimmerman said.

'Some elements of the LLRC are excellent. Some elements may be harder to implement than other, such as, those pertaining to accountability on human rights violations, but reconciliation and accountability must go together and we would like to see progress on the commitments made by the state in relation to accountability and other vital issues ', she explained.

'The US cares very much about Sri Lanka, ours is a longstanding tie. We will still be here after March', Zimmerman quipped.

Deputy Assistant Secretary James R. Moore said, among other things, that in all the delegation's meetings with Lankan state personnel they discussed Sri Lanka's efforts to implement its Lessons Learnt and Reconciliation Commission recommendations and National Action Plan and the 'importance of accelerated progress to achieving lasting reconciliation and a durable peace.' He said that the "Key to this will be transparent governance, as well as following through with a process of accountability for events at the end of the war, including civilian casualties and credible allegations of human rights violations." He said that the delegation had also discussed the importance of a vibrant civil society, an independent judiciary, a free and independent media and full respect for human rights.

Moore went on to say that the delegation 'welcomes the government's intent to have Northern Provincial Council elections in September and we encourage a resumption of talks between the TNA and the government.'





Impeachment debate and its fallout on power devolution

January 23, 2013, 7:53 pm

from Sebastian Rasalingam in Canada

The previous Chief Justice who was impeached stands accused of financial wheeler-dealing and arrogance of power in judicial cases where she had a conflict of interest. If she had been tried before a proper court, she may well have been found guilty. However, her real `crime' was her arrogance and non-compliance. Whenever things could be settled by cordial discussion she dug her heels and asserted that she was the Chief Justice - things don't happen that way even in the so-called Western democracies.

Think of this theatre under power devolution, with some local land-owner high-caste Chief Minister (possibly a Mervyn Silva, Chelvam of the North), pitted against a regional `chief justice' selected from a tiny caste-based pool of local lawyers. The regional Chief Minister would have got away with it without even a news headline. In the present system, at least all the light is focused on one national stage.

Righteous indignation

If the CJ was officiously arrogating power to safeguard her private interests, the politicians too were obnoxiously ensuring that they were in control. Listening to the Impeachment Debate makes us realise that Lanka's Members of Parliament have no dignity, decorum or basic civility. They are men and women who have come to power by the most devious means and who are ready to cling to power by mendacity and murder. Can any serious matter be decided by such men, in their shouting and `standing committees'? Surely, it is not constitutional reform that is needed, but a mandatory test of education, a clean police record and some good breeding. We need good role models of honesty, civility and plain good-nature.

There are some Members of Parliament who have the education and the potential for honesty and civility. Unfortunately, they rise like champions of justice when they are not committing the offence.

It was refreshing to listen to MP Sumanthiran denouncing Prof. G. L. Peiris and Vasudeva Nanayakkara for their total lack of principles. However, why doesn't Mr. Sumanthiran look at himself in the mirror and ask himself some basic questions that might help himself to emerge as a new honest leader of Sri Lanka, instead of playing destructive politics by working for the TNA? (Tamil National-socialist appendage)

Sumanthiran stated that he has 21 years of professional experience practising in Colombo. For at least 18 years, he implicitly and explicitly supported the murderous regime of Prabhakaran and never denounced the kidnapping of children, forcing children, women and civilians to become fighters, training orphans into suicide bombers etc. When the constitutional rights of the Tamils were denied by Prabhakaran by preventing the Tamils from voting in several elections, the TNA (and Mr. Sumanthiran) went along with it. Prabhakaran himself ruled the Tamils for three decades but the Sampanthans and Sumanthirans never told him to legitimize his rule by a vote. After all, the cyanide king came to power by killing the TULF leaders like Amirthalingam. So the LTTE-TNA cannot claim that the 1977 TULF victory legitimized them.

When Tamil leaders or MPs who opposed the methods of the LTTE got assassinated, Mr. Sumanthiran said nothing. He himself lived among the Sinhalese, practised as a lawyer and led a privileged life while claiming discrimination and genocide of the Tamils. So, his speech about the unconstitutional acts of the government and its ministers is nothing but an example of cynical hypocrisy, unless he follows up on it and atones for his past.

National leaders and not tribal chiefs

How can Sumanthiran follow up on it? Perhaps he should look at Mr. Anandasangaree. The latter is the only Tamil MP that I can think of who stopped practising as a lawyer when he became a Member of Parliament, since such practice would surely lead to serious conflicts of interest. Most countries do not allow MPs to also practise in the courts.

Mr. Anandasangraee is one of the few people who had the courage and honesty to stand up against the Nazism of the LTTE. Mr. Sumanthiran can surely see how Mr. Sampanthan is playing divisive politics, not just within Sri Lanka, but also among the Tamils. However, Mr. Ananadasangaree too has got trapped in the Vaddukkoddai time-wrap.

So, MP Sumanthiran is young enough and cosmopolitanly educated to be able atone for his sins and take a leaf from Mr. Anandasangaree. But he can go further. He can abandon Tamil tribal politics based on land-owning caste discrimination. He should make himself the leader of a future programme which shuns parochial ethnocentrism. The future of the Tamils of Sri Lanka does not lie in segregationist devolution where they end up falling into the hands of some odious 'Mervyn-Chelvam'-type Chief Minister from Manipay or Mavattipuram.





Kachcheri fire probe report out next month

January 29, 2013, 9:46 pm

By Franklin R. Satyapalan

The three-member committee, appointed by Minister of Public Administration and Home Affairs W. D. J. Seneviratne recently, to probe the fire that partially destroyed the Colombo District Secretariat (Kachcheri) at Dam Street last November, would submit their finding next month, Secretary to the Ministry Bandara P. Abeyakoon said yesterday.

He said that the committee chaired by Additional Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration, Jagath Chandrasiri and comprising Director Combined Services Aloka Bandara and Director Engineering Services R. A. D. Jayanthi had been tasked to probe whether there were lapses or negligence on the part of anyone.

Abeyakoon said that the committee would especially look into "procedures that should have been followed in locking up the District Secretariat securely and handing over the keys to the Dam Street Police Station. The Committee would submit their recommendations on measures that needed to be taken to prevent a repetition of such destructive situations in the future."

He said that the Minister took action to appoint a high level investigation committee on the basis of the Government Analyst's Department concluding that the fire had been caused intentionally by using inflammable materials.

Based on the Government Analyst's report the Colombo Crime Division (CCD) launched their own investigation and concluded that the fire was an act of sabotage, but have yet to identify the motive or the identity of the perpetrators.









Lanka-China JV gets BOI nod to produce Chinese Specialty Tea

January 23, 2013, 8:52 pm

The Board of Investment (BOI) recently signed an agreement with M/s Elpitiya Dianhong Jin Ya Tea Company (Private) Limited, a joint venture between M/s Elpitiya Plantations PLC (EPP), Sri Lanka, and M/s Dianhong International Limited, Hong Kong (DIL), a subsidiary of M/s Yunnan Dianhong Group Company Limited of China (DYGCL), for growing, processing and marketing of "Chinese Specialty Tea", the BOI said in a statement yesterday (23).

A spokesman for the BOI said Ceylon Tea would be processed to fit Chinese specifications and tastes, like it is done for the Middle East market.

"The project is planned to be launched in the up country tea estates which are owned by EPP. This high quality Chinese Specialty Tea is expected to cater to the high end market segment in Greater China. The project will pave the way for more foreign investment of this nature to the country with modern technology & machinery, which will expose more Sri Lankan tea products to the Chinese market," the BOI said.

EPP is one of the premier plantation companies in Sri Lanka which is presently managed by M/s Aitken Spence Plantation Managements Ltd. It consists of 13 large estates situated in up, mid and low country regions which are cultivated with tea, rubber, oil palm and coconut. M/s Yunnan Dianhong Group Company Limited of China (DGCL) is the biggest private share holding Black Tea manufacturer in Greater China, and it has been exporting tea to England, US and other countries since 1940."





'Offer' President 2013 as year of excellence in public service, says Lalith Weeratunga

January 23, 2013, 8:59 pm

Kicking off a project that can make state land management unimaginably easy, Presidential Secretary Lalith Weeratunga recently showed the way to make 2013 the 'excellent public service' year. The State Land Information Management System (e-SLIMS) is a project initiated by the ICT Agency of Sri Lanka (ICTA). With this launch e-SLIMS is immediately implemented in 10 Divisional Secretariats in the Western Province, namely, Kaduwela, Hanwella Sitawaka, Homagama, Minuwangoda, Mahara, Meerigama, Negombo, Walallawita, Bulathsinhala and Ingiriya. The project is tipped to become island-wide in due course.

Beginning his address as Chief Guest at the inauguration of the State Land Information Management System (e-SLIMS) with due recognition of the achievements in past years the Presidential Secretary said:

"It is not that in the past years we have not made great improvements in public service. Indeed we have made great strides in making public service unimaginably comfortable both for the public and the Government staff. Obtaining of Birth, Marriage and Death certificates which took three months in the past could be obtained in five to 10 minutes now. Vehicle Revenue Licence could be received in the comfort of our home without the hassle of visiting Government offices. People experience this vast difference in ease and efficiency as compared with the past in many areas, be it pension, online visa in the case of foreigners wanting to visit Sri Lanka, crop price information for farmers, just to mention a few".

Keeping the promise, very important...

Striving to drive home a primary pre-requisite in making 2013 better than other years in public service to the large audience comprising mainly top public servants Weeratunga advised: "Keep your word. If three days will be required to deliver something, for example, the vehicle revenue licence, say three days and not less.

Recently I had the experience of a friend of mine who wanted to get an official copy of a birth certificate. He went to the secretariat and obtained the birth certificate but he told me that he was disappointed. He complained that it took one hour for him to get it whereas he had thought he could get it in 10 minutes. Although obtaining the birth certificate in one hour compared with three months which was my experience in 1972 is a great achievement, people are disappointed when promises are not kept.

In 1972 when I was a university student I asked my father to get my birth certificate. He went to the office concerned and told me that it would take three months for me to get the birth certificate. He told me that he would not bribe the staff at the said office but advised me to get my birth certificate from my school submitted at the time of admission.

Work with gratitude for what people in the form of Government pay you...

Pointing out another important pre-requisite for making the current year excel all other years in quality public service the Presidential Secretary said: "Do a genuine work with a passion, with feeling, with gratitude for what people, in the form of the Government are paying you. On the other hand I will tell you what you should not be. I asked a graduate why he preferred to do a Government job that paid him a monthly salary of only Rs. 10,000 whereas a company in the private sector would pay him Rs. 40,000. He looked at me peevishly and said:"Sir, in Government service I get a pension and I don't have to work much'. I underline this young graduate's words 'don't have to work much'. How come any public servant can think that he 'does not have to work much'? If we value our pension so much, which indeed, it is ,isn't it enough reason for us to do an honest work and with the same, if not more, dedication as in the private sector?

Public servants a privileged elite to serve the people...

Highlighting yet another way we could make 2013 marked for excellence in public service the Presidential Secretary recalled the dedicated routine of another exemplary public servant. This public servant was so committed to do a perfect job of the Public's day on Wednesday that he worked long hours on Tuesday meticulously preparing for the people's day. I asked him why he was doing this? He replied: 'Sir, if I prepare well I will be able to complete the work on Wednesday. It will make things easy for me. After all at the end of the day it is I who have somehow to complete the task'. This attitude is tolerable and serves the immediate purpose. But our motivation should be founded on deeper reality. What is that deeper reality? It is this: 'I was selected for this public service out of thousands, after a process of screening including examinations and interviews. I am a privileged person given the opportunity to serve the people. It is only I who can do this at this point in history'."

Let's offer the President 2013 as a year of excellence in public service...

Urging the audience assembled at SLIDA for this launch that makes 10 Divisional Secretariats in the Western Province able to implement e-SLIMS with immediate effect, the Presidential Secretary was prophetic: "If all 336 Divisional Secretariats in all the 25 Districts do a genuine job, 90 per cent of the problems that the country faces will be solved". Let every public servant offer his contribution to present to the President as perfect a machinery in public service as possible. This will be a great support for His Excellency in his endeavour to lead the country further towards the highest ideals locally and internationally."





CMC PHD orders closure of Indian restaurant

January 29, 2013, 10:18 pm

By Dilanthi Jayamanne

The Public Health Department of the Colombo Municipal Council (PHD CMC) said it had to shut down an Indian restaurant along the Wellawatta- Kollupitya (Marine Drive) route during their inspections on Monday (28) evening.

PHD chief Dr. Pradeep Kariyawasam said yesterday that the unhygienic conditions of the kitchen, which was the basement of the building, was the main reason for the closure order.

Dr. Kariyawasam said they had inspected 18 eateries during raids and found that at least ten of them were functioning without licenses. Some of them were those which were on the verge of being demolished for city development. He said that the establishments had failed to get their licenses for last year as well. They maintained that they were in operation till they were instructed to vacate the buildings.

Several food, water, spice and colouring samples were taken for analysis. Only two eateries maintained hygienic food preparation methods while the remaining places had unhygienic cooking conditions. A majority of them used tube well water for cooking, washing and sanitation. Their refrigerators were equally unclean with cooked and raw food being stored in the same refrigerator.

He said food inspectors and PHIs had destroyed large quantities of 'roti' pieces which were days old. They had been chopped up for kottu roti and been stored since the amounts were in excess.

The PHD had also destroyed over 25 smashed salmon tins which had been purchased for cooking, he added.





Exhibition of paintings by Sadhana Walavalkar

January 23, 2013, 9:39 pm

Sadhana, is a talented artist with a penchant for the natural and surreal. She started painting as a hobby at a very young age; having had no professional training, her art originates from her love for life and nature.

She has been exhibiting her 'one of a kind' pieces to the public since 1984 and have her work has been featured in many famed art galleries in major cities of India such as Mumbai, Delhi, Cochin, Ahmadabad, Lucknow and many more.

Sadhana's paintings appeal to art lovers of various origins and her followers spread beyond the boundaries of India, to Japan, United Kingdom, North America and Singapore among other South Asian nations.

Sadhana was recognised by Intach Art Associations (Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage) for her outstanding works of art.

Her first exhibition outside India is set to take place in Colombo, at the Harold Peiris Gallery at the Lionel Wendt building, showcasing a collection of 40 masterpieces of oil and acrylic work on canvas in varying subjects, styles and vigour. The exhibition will be open to public on January 24th and 25th 2013.





Sacking a CJ with minimal domestic political fuss or costs

January 23, 2013, 8:32 pm

By Harim Peiris

The Lawyers' Collective on Monday, at the Supreme Court Complex in Hulftsdorp, signed a petition against death threats to lawyers and Judges who worked against the recent impeachment of Chief Justice Dr. Shirani Bandaranayake. A lawyer puts her signature to the petition. File photo

Hats off to the Rajapaksa regime, which has pulled it off! Sacking a Chief Justice and getting away with it is no easy task and few governments succeed. The Fijian generals who periodically overthrow that tortured nation's democratic governments usually follow up by sacking the chief justice, Mugabe's Zimbabwe has found it necessary to curb an independent judiciary, the list is not long. Now Sri Lanka joins this group, where the government has successfully got rid of a Chief Justice who became in a very limited manner, an inconvenient obstacle to the executive's wishes.

Internationally the Sri Lankan government's hasty and rash assault on the judiciary has gone down very badly. The expressions of concerns and in fact even calls to reinstate Chief Justice Bandaranaike came from a host of nations and internationals actors including the US, UK, Canada, the UN and the Commonwealth. Canada has already referred Sri Lanka to the Ministerial Action Group (MAG) of the Commonwealth, which will now have to examine the issue, casting a serious shadow over Sri Lanka's hosting of the CHOGAM later this year. Further at the UNHCR in March, a review on the resolution calling on Sri Lanka to implement the LLRC recommendations is due and the country's already weak record of implementing the LLRC recommendations would be compounded by what is seen internationally as an undemocratic and authoritarian assault on the judiciary, unhelpful to and running counter to national reconciliation.

But the Rajapaksa regime primarily focuses not just on the domestic Sri Lankan polity but on its own key constituency of the Southern Sinhala base and here it succeeded in wrapping the impeachment debate in the garb of good governance, financial and moral integrity and succeeded in sacking the CJ with its constituency basically holding. Though a few cracks and chinks in the armor appeared. The traditional left parties, the CP and LSSP finally demonstrated some political backbone and publicly opposed and then at least abstained from the impeachment vote as did the Liberal Party's lone national list MP, the maverick Professor Rajiva Wijesinghe. More publicly influential, the senior most religious leaders in the country, the venerable Maha Nayake Theras of the four main Nikaya's, all unanimously requested the President to desist from impeaching the CJ. So did the Catholic Bishops Conference and the National Christian Council. These requests were ignored.

The real rabbit the regime pulled out of its hat though was the basic acquiescence of the main opposition party the UNP. Disunited to the point of impotency and lacking the political confidence to take on the government, the UNP have become bystanders and observers of political developments in Sri Lanka, completely unwilling and unable to be a check and balance on the government's uses and abuses of power. Impeaching the Chief Justice is a good case in point. The Rajapaksa regime does back off from political pressure from the Sinhala polity. The private pension plan with EPF funds, private universities as an alternative to adequate funding for the state universities all resulted in the government backing off with the Free Trade Zone worker strike and the FUTA strike. In all instances the UNP were bystanders of serious anti government protests. One almost suspects that the UNP leader, now himself ensconced in that position for six more long years, is convinced that being the sole alternative to the sole representative of the Sinhala people, is all that is required to win power in a future election in some distant date when this government will collapse under its own weight, which is really pretty wishful thinking. Probably without the UNP's tacit support the impeachment would not have succeeded. The Bar Association of Sri Lanka offered token resistance. The chief contribution of its President, UNP MP Wijayadasa Rajapakshe, was similar to that of his party leader and successfully dampened the sheer outrage of its membership to a mere protesting whimper.

Pakistan with none of the democratic credentials, traditions and history showed how a polity should respond when Chief Justice Chowdry was impeached. The Courts shut down, judges refused to work, the political Opposition organized protests and the impeachment was unsuccessful. Sri Lanka was almost businesses as usual, then and now, except there is nothing usual in a politicized judiciary. Especially when placed on top of a politicized bureaucracy and a politicized police force.





NZ wins second ODI by 27 runs to take series

January 23, 2013, 11:18 pm

KIMBERLEY, South Africa (AP) — New Zealand dramatically reversed its fortunes to win its first one-day series in South Africa with an ultimately comfortable 27-run victory in the second game at De Beers Diamond Oval on Tuesday.

Having slumped to successive innings losses to be whitewashed in the test series, the Black Caps bounced back strongly with consecutive wins in the ODIs for an unbeatable 2-0 lead in the three-game series — and a chance of a whitewash themselves.

Kane Williamson dominated New Zealand's innings and the South African bowlers with a career-high 145 not out to help his team to 279-8, and the tourists then forced South Africa into a major collapse in its chase as the Proteas went from 167-1 to 252 all out after an incredible five run outs.

Kyle Mills was New Zealand's best bowler with 2-28 but a combination of suicidal running and sharp out-fielding saw the back of Graeme Smith (66), Faf du Plessis (2), Farhaan Behardien (31), David Miller (14) and Rory Kleinveldt (0).

Jimmy Neesham bowled Lonwabo Tsotsobe off the first ball of the final over to seal one of the more memorable victories and biggest turnarounds for New Zealand cricket.

"I'm not going to underplay it," captain Brendon McCullum said. "It's a phenomenal effort. This will probably go down as one of our biggest ever wins in the one-dayers ... and after a pretty tough time."

Williamson hit 17 fours and a six off the last ball of the innings to lead New Zealand to a challenging but not insurmountable total on a tame wicket which was fairly straightforward for batting. The majority of the South African batsmen got themselves out, however, attempting to push for twos and threes or steal singles.

Six run outs would have been a record for a one-day game, while Smith's exit, when South Africa was 167-1, was probably the turning point as the Proteas lost 9-85 under a New Zealand fielding effort that took every opportunity that came its way.

"We didn't play well again, and to get five run outs is not acceptable," South Africa's stand-in captain, Faf du Plessis said.

Having walked to the wicket in the third over with still no runs on the board, Williamson shared a 127-run partnership with Grant Elliott (48) in one of the finest knocks by a New Zealander in one-dayers.

There wasn't much else from his teammates, who made a slow start and lost quick wickets toward the end of their innings. But that didn't matter as the relentless Williamson kept them going despite cramping in the final overs on a sweltering day in South Africa's Northern Cape.

"It's been tough all right," Williamson said. "The boys really stepped up in the last two games and it's rewarding to come out with a series win."

Morne Morkel took 3-71 for the Proteas, but was expensive at the end of his spell when Williamson and Mills (15 not out) took 19 off his last over — helped by a pair of sixes.

South Africa had to chase without suspended captain AB de Villiers and injured batsman Hashim Amla. But despite the loss of Quinton de Kock, the hosts appeared in complete control with a commanding partnership of 129 between Smith and Colin Ingram (79).

Smith ran himself out going for a third and four other players also were caught short to ensure New Zealand ends the one-day series in a far better state than the tests, no matter what the result of the final game of the tour in Potchefstroom on Friday.





"The ASPI ended higher for a second consecutive day amid gains in some large caps. Turnover crossed the Rs. 1bn mark, mainly on the back of a block trade on COMB, which accounted for over 40% of total turnover. The market also saw crossings on PLC and CARS," John Keells Stockbrokers said.

"Market sentiment continued to remain positive with relatively strong retail and institutional participation. Turnover remained high at LKR1.3 bn, with parcels of Commercial Bank and Environmental Resources Investments changing hands that accounted for 58% of the day's total. Gainers outpaced losers with Pegasus, Royal Ceramics and Kahawatte Plantations rising by 10.4%, 9.4% and 8.5% offsetting losses in Environmental Resources Investments (W0003), Environmental Resources Investments (W0006) and Lanka Floortiles which declined by 9.5%, 8.3% and 6.5% respectively," DNH Financial said.

"We expect the market to remain buoyant over the next couple of weeks with positive investor sentiment providing a healthy backdrop and consequently advise investors to be appropriately positioned to take advantage of the rerating in the market. In this respect we emphasize the need to focus on quality stocks that will outperform on a sustainable basis while avoiding counters that may generate short term gains without fundamental support. Consequently, a flight to quality strategy is strongly recommended in order to benefit fully from the market's re-rating," it said.

Meanwhile, Senkadagala Finance PLC announced second interim dividend of 79 cents per share.





The Institute of Chemistry Ceylon has decided to confer its highest honour, Honorary Fellowship, on Dr. Kingsley Anton de Alwis who will be the Chief Guest at the Ninth Convocation of its College of Chemical Sciences on February 21, at Water's Edge, Capital City.

Dr. de Alwis. who has a distinguished and impressive record of service in Sri Lanka as well as in several international bodies, will deliver the Convocation Address on the topic "Education is a Chain Reaction that lasts a Lifetime".

Eighty three Graduate Chemists and 34 Laboratory Technology Diplomates will receive their certificates, medals and awards on this occasion.





Police spokesman SSP Prishantha Jayakody yesterday denied having knowledge of a suspect being arrested in connection with the setting ablaze of the statue of 'Mother Mary' at Avissawella. However, the DIG of the Ratnapura Range confirmed that a suspect had been arrested by the Avissawella police.

The statue of 'Mother Mary' valued at nearly 650,000 rupees was set ablaze in the early hours of Monday, according to police. It had been installed on a bare land near St. Mary's School on Saturday with the approval of the Mayor.

Parishioners suspect that the police have a hand in the arson attack as they attempted to convince parishioners not to proceed with the project to install the statue at that spot.

When The Island contacted the DIG regarding the latest break through by the police, he said that a suspect had been arrested, but he did not know the suspect's identity at that time, as he was in Colombo. He requested The Island to contact the SSP there to obtain details on the suspect.

The SSP confirmed that a suspect had been arrested. Earlier, on Monday, he denied any knowledge about such an incident. However, he refrained from going into detail about the suspect by claiming he was not authorised to provide any details to media and to contact the media spokesman.

A concerned parishioner told The Island that they did not know why the police and the SSP had been trying their best to stop the installation of the statue and had requested the Court to grant them a restraining order. But the Judge had turned down the request as there had been no public unrest or protest over the land or the installation of the statue of Mother Mary.





R.S.A Cricket School awards ceremony on Friday

January 23, 2013, 11:08 pm

The R.S.A Cricket School, Kurunegala will hold its biennial awards presentation for cricketers at Seasons Hotel, Kurunegala on Friday from 3.00 pm onwards.

Mayor Gamini Peramunage and Mrs. Peramunage will grace the occasion as chief guests while a number of dignitaries, including former Test cricketer Ranjith Madurasinghe, the pioneer of the R.S.A Cricket School, Minister Salinda Dissanayake and Mrs. Dissanayake, MP Dayasiri Jayasekara, former cricketers Sudharshana Guruge and Ajith Ekanayake, are expected to grace the occasion.

The most improved batsman, bowler, fielder, all rounder, emerging player and most disciplined player are some of the awarded to be presented at this ceremony. The Ranjith Madurasinghe Challenge Trophy and Lionel K. Patabandi Challenge Trophy will be awarded to the Most Valuable Player in the junior and senior categories, respectively.

While Upali Senaratne and T. N. K. de Silva are the head coaches of the R.S.A Cricket School, Senadeera Bandara, Prasad Sanjeewa, Prince Chaminda and Chandrasena Randeniya are the assistant coaches.





Violence against women: Pillay commends Verma Comm. report

January 29, 2013, 10:19 pm

GENEVA (25 January 2013) - The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay on Friday (25 January) welcomed the report of the Verma Committee as a groundbreaking basis for action against violence against women in India, and urged the Government to follow through on its vision and recommendations.

"I salute Justice Verma and his Committee on producing such a thorough report so quickly, and for involving women's groups and civil society so fully in the process," a UN statement quoted the High Commissioner as having said.

"This report and its far-reaching recommendations are not only a tribute to the brave young woman who was raped and murdered five weeks ago, but to all victims of sexual violence and assault in India," she said. "It is also a testament to the power of the young women and men of India, and the broader civil society, who have joined hands across the nation to say 'Enough is Enough'."

The report recommends a number of far-reaching changes including punishment for marital rape, domestic rape and rape in same-sex relationships; requiring police officers to register every case of reported rape and ensuring those who fail to do so face serious repercussions; ensuring accountability of police or armed forces personnel for sexual violence; punishing offences such as stalking and voyeurism with prison terms; changing the humiliating protocol for medical examinations experienced by rape victims; cracking down on extra-legal village councils, known as khap panchayats, which often issue edicts against women; comprehensive measures to improve sexuality education in schools and the community; and making new legal requirements and electoral reforms to ensure that people charged with criminal offences may not hold political office.

"I strongly support the fact that the report eschews the death penalty and any lowering of the age of juvenile perpetrators," the High Commissioner said. "And that, instead, it recommends suitably heavy prison sentences ranging from seven years to life."

"The Committee's recommendations are grounded in a framework of rights, equality and non-discrimination, and represent a paradigm shift towards recognition of women as holders of rights, not just objects of protection," Pillay said. "The report should serve as a beacon for many other countries struggling to respect the rights of women more comprehensively by addressing sexual violence through legislation, policies and programmes."

The High Commissioner acknowledged some of the urgent steps already taken by the Government, including the establishment of fast-track courts, and urged all political leaders of the country to rally around the Verma report and make implementation of its recommendations an unequivocal national priority.

At the invitation of the Verma Committee, the Office of the High Commissioner made a submission and stands ready to assist in any aspect of the report's implementation.









Snake charmers in Court today

January 29, 2013, 10:18 pm

By Cyril Wimalasurendre

KANDY: The four snake-charmers, who caused panic among the passengers and crew of a CTB bus, bound for Kurunegala on Sunday (27) night, when their cobras and pythons escaped from the baskets and slithered around, are to be produced before the Galagedara Magistrate's Court today (30).

Galagedara police earlier produced the four-men in the Kandy Magistrate's Court and they were ordered surety bail of Rs. 100,000 each.

Additional Magistrate Sampath Hewawasam ordered that the nine cobras and the monkey be handed over to the chief of the gypsy clan in the Kurunegala district and the three pythons to be handed over to the Wild-Life Department.

Due to the failure of the suspects to furnish bail they were remanded.





As part of their global footprint expansion Goodhope Asia Holdings Ltd continues to leverage Dialog Axiata's international network to extend its seamless network. The connectivity solution offer by Dialog brings together Goodhope's offices in Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia and Sri Lanka. This connected network runs on Dialog's International MPLS (iMPLS) infrastructure that ensures secure and uninterrupted connectivity between the locations, a statement said.

The robust network provided by Dialog enables Goodhope to run voice, data and video conferencing solutions driving cost efficiency and productivity for the company. Dialog is the only solutions provider to have activated capacity on all under-sea cables terminating in Sri Lanka. The network diversity ensures comprehensive uptime of the network since the solution is configured to automatically re-route traffic should any under-sea cable system become unavailable.

Speaking about the partnership Supun Weerasinghe, Group Chief Operating Officer, Dialog Axiata PLC said, "Dialog has continued to make significant investments in building a best-in-class network within and outside Sri Lanka to meet our customer's diverse requirements. We have laid significant domestic fiber optic cabling in Colombo and other major cities in Sri Lanka to ensure seamless connectivity. Similarly, Dialog has built an unmatched international network to provide customized solutions to our Enterprise customers."

"As Goodhope continues it expansion drive, cost effective and productive measures of communication becomes critical to business operations. Using Dialog Axiata's iMPLS network to connect to all countries of operations has helped us achieve this objective,"Kevin de Silva, Director IT/COO - Business Systems & Services Segment at Goodhope said.





CMI-KPMG Evening Meet: Tax Issues in the Supply Chain

January 23, 2013, 8:49 pm

The Chartered Management Institute UK's Sri Lanka branch together with knowledge Partner, KPMG has organised an evening presentation and discussion on Monday 28th January 2013 on "Tax Issues in the Supply Chain".

The event which will take the form of a discussion, than a formal presentation, will be held at the Hotel Galadari featuring an eminent gathering of industry professionals including Ms Dilani Katipearachchi, Vice President and Head of Tax, Aitken Spence Group, Ms Devika Weerasinghe, Chief Financial Officer – Transportation Sector, John Keells Group, Ms. Sriyamal Gamage, Deputy Finance Director, Hayleys Advantis, Ms Yishani Abeysuriya, Chief Financial Officer, DHL Global Forwarding, R.P.L Weerasinghe, Former Commissioner General of Inland Revenue, K. Dharmasena, Commissioner, Department of Inland Revenue.

They will be joined by Mohan S. Mohanadas, Chairman, Sri Lanka Freight Forwarders Association, Dinesh De Silva, Chairman, Sri Lanka Shippers Council and Ralph Anandappa, Chairman, Ceylon Association of Ships' Agents who will share their views on recent tax and process aspects associated with the supply chain function.

The discussion will be moderated by Reyaz Mihular, Managing Partner and Suresh Perera, Principal – Tax & Regulatory of KPMG in Sri Lanka.

The supply chain essentially affects the costs of almost all products with even greater impacts on those imported to the country. The tax and process implications are vast, resulting in broader complexities for importers, wholesalers, retailers, logistic providers and in almost all instances has a cascading impact on the end consumer. Clearer understanding of these tax issues will help in minimising financial leakages and in expediting the entire process, thus CMI Sri Lanka Branch's decision to organise this event together with KPMG as their knowledge partner.





Resetting India-Sri Lanka Relations

* Report of the Indo-Lanka Joint Study Group

January 23, 2013, 9:09 pm

Introduction

The Indo-Lanka Joint Study Group has been set up to initiate a discreet and informal dialogue process to jointly explore ways to strengthen the relationship between the two neighbours. This informal channel of dialogue will seek to generate innovative recommendations and complement official efforts at strengthening the bilateral relationship.

India and Sri Lanka are separated by the narrow and shallow Palk Strait. However, Indo-Sri Lanka bilateral relations need not be a mirror image of this geographic reality. The history of both countries has been intertwined with religious, cultural and social affinities that help to foster goodwill and friendship among the peoples of the two countries.

Over six decades ago, both countries freed themselves from colonialism. They have since successfully cooperated in facing the challenges of global developments. The two countries will obviously need to face and overcome more onerous challenges in the new millennium. Casting aside mutual suspicions and apprehensions of each other's motives, the two countries need to work together to lay a firm foundation for closer and mutually beneficial cooperation in many fields, particularly in areas such as security, trade, education, health, culture etc. This would ensure peace and prosperity for the peoples of both countries.

It is likely that irritants may surface from time to time. This is natural between two countries located so close to each other and asymmetrical in many aspects. Situations will continue to arise where vested interests exploit them to achieve their narrow ends at the expense of the traditionally close bilateral relations. Such developments may test the patience of the peoples and even political leaders of the two countries, thereby limiting the space to resolve such differences through consultations. The relationship should be strong enough to withstand such challenges, with the political leadership addressing such situations, not through emotions, but statesmanship, thereby further strengthening the traditionally close relationship.

Lack of candour and accommodation in bilateral interactions should be replaced by frank dialogue between political leaders and other interlocutors on either side, thereby removing opportunities for negative political orchestration by interested parties and individuals. The adversarial elements of the relationship that had emerged, from time to time, should be replaced with mutual trust, openness and understanding of the contentious issues involved. It is time to reset Indo-Lanka relations.

Lack of trust is not only confined to the political level. It has permeated various levels of society over a period of time due to many perceptions such as:

- Aggressive stand taken by India from time to time with regard to the ethnic problem in Sri Lanka.

- Coercive diplomacy leading to provocative statements and postures being adopted in both countries in recent times.

- Lack of adequate follow up of the military victory with a political process to address the ethnic issue.

- Lack of rapport at leadership level at certain times in the recent decades, including paucity of high-level visits from India to Sri Lanka.

Recommendations

1. General: Ways to improve Bilateral Relations

- To address these concerns, confidence building measures should be put in place and trust, co-operation and understanding should be enhanced in all areas of bilateral relations. To this end, all efforts must be made by both governments to avoid making public statements on sensitive policy issues that could potentially erode efforts to maintain and enhance confidence and trust between the two countries.

In this regard:

- Identify key areas for further action in the economic sphere, people to people contacts and political and strategic issues.

- Identify areas of convergence and divergence, so as to expand the former and reduce the latter.

2. Economic:

- In the medium term, prepare a vision and Road-Map 2035 for economic relations consulting/associating with, as necessary, corporate sectors, academic communities and strategic communities/think-tanks of the two countries.

- To this end, entrust the Institute of Policy Studies (IPS) Colombo and the Research Information System for Developing Countries (RIS) New Delhi to update and expand the 1991-1992 RIS-Wider Study, within the next year, with the view to providing a comprehensive projection of bilateral economic relations in their multifarious dimensions over the next two decades.

- In the short term, priority should be attached to the following:

- Build on the success of the Free Trade Agreement (FTA): explore ways of expanding two-way trade and investment flows by identifying impediments and constraints and suggesting measures for removing or lessening them, including by factoring in the specific concerns of the corporate sector.

- Identify the need for further assistance for reconstruction and development work in northern and eastern Sri Lanka, including through enhancing in situ livelihood and economic security of the populace.

- Identify the need for further assistance for vocational training and skills development on a large scale, especially for the displaced persons, including returnees from India.

- Help Sri Lankan enterprises to plug into India's supply chains, in both manufacturing and services, especially by building strong links with entities in southern India, including through strengthening linkages between business associations and creating institutional capacity for supporting the Sri Lankan private sector seeking to do business with or in India. In this connection the recently announced Indian initiative for developing an automotive component industry and a pharmaceutical hub in Sri Lanka signals an important breakthrough that needs to be built upon.

- Explore ways and means by which India can assist in mitigating long-term financial risks, including through arrangements between the two Central Banks, taking into account the volatile global economic landscape and recent graduation of Sri Lanka as a lower middle-income country, no longer eligible for concessional financing. The recent establishment of the RBI financed SAARC Swap Arrangement of US$ 2 billion, with a country limit of US$ 400 million, constitutes an important advance in this direction.

- Explore ways to significantly expand people-to-people contacts through considering visa on arrival; through promotion of tourism, including religious and medical tourism.

- Introduce measures to strengthen connectivity between the two countries, including through further liberalization of air services, maritime transportation and construction of a land link by undertaking a feasibility study.

- Examine prospects for bilateral cooperation in the areas of energy security, such as power generation, the petroleum sector, renewable sources of energy and energy conservation.

- Accelerate the implementation of existing Indian sponsored projects, which have been affected by delays, including bureaucratic, in contrast with some other projects, which are being expeditiously executed.

- Ensure a level-playing field and adequate transparency in the processes of awarding contracts, and the need for appreciation of sensitivities in work in the strategic areas.

- Promote greater understanding of the Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement (CEPA) negotiations, including through addressing residual issues, particularly non-tariff barriers and other impediments, in the implementation of FTA 1.This would help create a positive environment for the negotiations, providing greater transparency and taking into account the need to deal effectively with the asymmetry between the two economies.

- Pay greater attention to the needs and requirements for socio-economic well-being of the people of Indian origin in plantations.

3. Political and Strategic Issues

- The objectives should be improved and stable bilateral relations, peace, security and people's welfare, while frankly recognizing domestic political considerations on both sides.

- While recognizing many areas of strategic convergence, efforts must be made to address divergences through free and frank engagements at policy level

- It is acknowledged that the relations between the two countries are multi-faceted. However, the impact of the ethnic issue on these relations must be addressed with sensitivity by both sides to ensure that the larger national interests of each other are not prejudiced.

- Recognize the importance of a well-structured domestic process of reconciliation and accountability in today's context with strong political support from all stakeholders; it is also important to give effect to bilateral understandings and commitments in this regard.

- Assist the Sri Lanka Government to achieve national reconciliation, devolution and economic development, including by fostering long-term partnership and capital investment.

- Address the genuine grievances of the people, rather than demands of groups with vested interests.

- Encourage all concerned, in particular the political parties, including the minority parties and the opposition in Sri Lanka, to reposition themselves in relation to the post LTTE realities by (a) committing to effective devolution through provinces, down to grassroots level taking into account past experiences without necessarily being constrained by them and (b) initiating a structured dialogue towards political consensus on the ethnic issue, in particular with the affected parties, and at a multiparty forum, within a specified time-frame.

- Encourage effective and expeditious implementation of recommendations of the LLRC Report, in particular those relating to post conflict reconciliation.

- Institute a dialogue between the two countries based on sovereign equality and mutual respect, where strategic interests of either are likely to be affected. In particular, political sensitivities and security implications need to be taken fully into account as a means of maintaining mutual confidence in all aspects of the bilateral relationship. Towards this end, strengthen institutional mechanisms that have been established to address different aspects of the bilateral relationship.

- Both countries should refrain from raising in multilateral fora, issues which would best be dealt at the bilateral level.

- Strengthen mutual consultative arrangements for combating terrorism, trafficking in narcotic drugs, people-smuggling and other forms of transnational organized crime and arrange for regular intelligence-sharing on all issues of common concern.

- Continue the cooperation and dialogue on (i) De-limitation of the Continental Shelf between the two countries in the Bay of Bengal at the bilateral level and (ii) adopting a common position on the Statement of Understanding (SoU) concerning a specific method to be used in establishing the outer edge of the Continental Margin in the southern part of the Bay of Bengal in pursuing their respective submissions before the Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf.

- Take action to set up a Joint Mechanism for the conservation and sustainable management of fisheries and other marine resources in the Palk Bay on the lines set out in Annexure 1 'Joint Mechanism for the Sustainable Management of Fisheries and other Marine Resources in the Palk Bay'.

- Take action to strengthen measures to prevent poaching in the internal waters, territorial seas and Exclusive Economic Zones of the two countries. For this purpose take action to streamline the working methods and procedures of existing Working Group on Fisheries and hold other meetings at operational levels between the navies, coast guards, immigration and customs officials of the two countries, particularly by providing for speedy investigation and clarification of allegations concerning serious incidents involving fishermen.

- Expand existing defence cooperation to strengthen maritime security cooperation and protection of sea-lanes including closer cooperation to deal with acts of piracy.

4. People-to-People Contacts

4.1 Education:

- Streamline the scholarships schemes by taking steps to remove irritants such as selection processes, time-delays between the declaration of results of the qualifying examinations and the deadline for submission of application forms, hostel facilities, and students not being awarded institutions of their choice and so on.

- Explore feasibility of making available affordable reprints of text-books on technical subjects from India.

- Study the feasibility of making available teachers from India to meet any temporary shortages for the teaching of English and Tamil.

- Encourage interaction between think-tanks in the two countries, and for this purpose, prepare a list of candidate institutions in respective countries, which can engage in this task.

- Conduct a feasibility study for establishment of an offshore campus of a reputed Institute of Technology from India in Sri Lanka.

- University Grants Commissions of the two countries to discuss areas of enhanced cooperation.

- Visits by schoolchildren to places of historic and cultural interest in each other's country.

The relationship between India and Sri Lanka is a multifaceted one. It has tremendous scope for significant expansion and rapid improvement in the coming years. This report sets out some of the ways in which this potential can be realized.

A speedy reconciliation process in Sri Lanka would have a salutary impact on further strengthening bilateral relations.

The Joint Study Group urges the two governments to pay urgent attention to implementing the recommendations contained in this report.





2,411 new SMIs setup operations in 2012

January 23, 2013, 8:48 pm

Two thousand four hundred and eleven (2,411) new small and medium scale industries (SMIs) commenced operations in 2012, Traditional Industries and Small Enterprise Development Minister Douglas Devananda said.

Of the 2,411 new industries, 814 were medium scale and 62 large. Industrialists with a working capital exceeding Rs. 50 million were identified as large scale while one with more than Rs. 20 million was identified with the medium scale group.

The ministry has provided training for 1,400 persons in Palmyrah based industries while steps were also taken to plant 73,000 saplings. The government has allocated Rs. 19 million to develop the Kithul industry as well, the minister pointed out.





Tough justice at J'pura

January 29, 2013, 10:03 pm

by Dasun Edirisinghe

The Student Council of the University of Sri Jayewardenepura yesterday claimed that the university administration, with the approval of its Senate, expelled four undergraduates and suspended the studentship of seven others for three years.

Representative of the Student Council Kimbullewe Ananda thera told The Island that four final-year undergraduates of the Management and Arts Faculties had been expelled just two days prior to their graduation.

He said that other students too were final-year undergraduates.

"This is a very unfair punishment meted out without giving a chance to submit their explanations," Ananda thera said adding that the punishment was given after a one sided inquiry.

During the past few years, there has been massive suppression of students in the Jayewardenepura University under present Vice Chancellor Prof. N. L. A. Karunaratne, he said.

Ananda thera said that when undergraduates protest against suppression and other academic and welfare problems, the university administration expells them.

"We will appeal against this expulsion and suspension," he said.

Ananda thera said that they also held a demonstration opposite the university against this unfair decision last week.

When contacted the media spokesman for the Sri Jayewardenepura University Dr. Praneeth Abeysundera denied the students' claims.

He said that the studentship of eight students had been suspended and three students had been given conditional suspensions as they were found guilty of causing disturbances, violent behaviour, assaulting the Vice Chancellor, Academic Staff and Security officials and damaging university property.

Dr. Abeysundera said this punishment was enforced by the University Senate after a proper investigation conducted by the disciplinary committees.





People's Bank Chairman Karunajeewa passes away

January 29, 2013, 10:02 pm

Chairman of People's Bank and People's Leasing and Finance PLC, W. Karunajeewa, passed away yesterday morning (29). Mr. Karunajeewa, who was 66 years of age at the time of death, assumed duties as the Chairman of People's Bank in 2007.

After following his primary education at Bowala Maha Vidyalaya and Dharmaraja College, Kandy, Mr. Karunajeewa obtained a Degree in Commerce from the University of Peradeniya. Subsequentlym he began his career in teaching. In keeping with his progressive beliefs, Mr. Karunajeewa embarked on a career in politics by joining the Sri Lanka Freedom Party.

He was appointed as the Administrative Secretary of the party by the then Prime Minister, Mrs. Sirimavo Bandaranaike in 1973. He held many posts as a member of the party.

In 1987 Mr. Karunajeewa took oaths as an Attorney-at-Law. In 1997 he was appointed as the Working Director of the Ceylon Fisheries Corporation, later becoming the Chairman. In 2005 he was appointed as the Chairman of the Employees Trust Fund (ETF) and later Chairman of People's Bank in 2007.

The exemplary and visionary leadership of Mr. W. Karunajeewa has contributed towards the expansion and current position of People's Bank.

While serving the bank with dedication and dynamism, Mr. Karunajeewa also assumed duties as the Chairman of People's Leasing Group of Companies.

His outstanding service and contribution rendered towards developing People's Bank, its subsidiaries and the local banking fraternity was recognized by the Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka, which awarded him an Honorary Fellowship in 2010.

Mr. Karunajeewa was the husband of Mrs. Kusum Karunajeewa and father of Mr. Indika Karunajeewa and Ms. Dilini Karunajeewa.





Rupee down, T-bond yields up

January 23, 2013, 8:46 pm

The rupee fell against the US dollar on import demand while secondary market Treasury bond yields continued to rise, currency dealers said.

The rupee closed at Rs. 127.10/15 against the greenback on Wednesday on importer demand after opening the day at Rs. 126.75/85. Exporters were not active in the market with trades being dominated by demand.

"Excess liquidity and the movement of bond market yields are affecting the exchange rate. State names were seen on the buying side (for US dollars), and there was no indication of Central Bank intervention," one currency dealer said.

Meanwhile, the secondary market for Treasury bonds saw yields continue on the upward trend. The five year bond moved up 10 basis points to close at 11.40/45.

Excess liquidity in the banking system amounted to nearly Rs. 42 billion yesterday.





Sharper shifts in global power balance

January 23, 2013, 8:17 pm

French troops walk in Niono, some 400 kilometers (249 miles) north of the capital Bamako Sunday Jan. 20, 2013. The Malian military announced late Saturday that the government was now controlling Diabaly, marking an important accomplishment for the French-led offensive to oust the extremists from northern and central Mali. (AP)

However, as indicated last week in this column, the West is intent on maintaining its military hegemony worldwide and we have fresh evidence of this, for instance, in the French and British military intervention in Mali, where the West is clearly keen on ensuring that all traces of the Al-Qaeda are wiped out. It is also of importance that both the US and British defence authorities have called on their Western allies to defer, if possible, plans for cuts in defence –related spending to ensure that Western security needs and its global military superiority are maintained.

The following statistics on the US economy should prove thought-provoking to the observer of current shifts in the global power balance. For one, the US has accumulated a national debt of $ 16.4 trillion over the years and this debt burden is reportedly having a dampening effect on global financial markets. Another set of figures of note is that China and Japan hold more than $ 1 trillion in US Treasury securities, with the implication that these Asian economic giants are determining to a good measure, the economic stability of the US.

These statistics alone point to some of the economic determinants of the present world power structure. While it is almost common knowledge that the global power balance has shifted to the Eastern hemisphere following further advances in the liberalization of economies worldwide over the past three decades, the above statistics are concrete proof that the present global recession has indeed affected in a substantial way the hitherto number one economy of the world. Besides, here is undisputable proof that Asia's foremost economies are among the mainstays of the current economic order.

However, as indicated last week in this column, the West is intent on maintaining its military hegemony worldwide and we have fresh evidence of this, for instance, in the French and British military intervention in Mali, where the West is clearly keen on ensuring that all traces of the Al-Qaeda are wiped out. It is also of importance that both the US and British defence authorities have called on their Western allies to defer, if possible, plans for cuts in defence –related spending to ensure that Western security needs and its global military superiority are maintained.

The correlative of this emphasis on military and defence spending is the downgrading of Western welfare expenditure, which option could prove counterproductive for the average Western citizen. Coming amid a downturn in the economic fortunes of the West, this policy preference could only result in greater social and economic distress for the relevant publics. It is common knowledge that, for instance, crime and unemployment are on an upswing in the West.

However, it is of considerable interest that the US President is reportedly intent on giving the US polity a Social-Democratic orientation even while being mindful of the sole superpower's defence and security requirements. The Obama administration's social spending by way of medical insurance cover for the less privileged, for instance, is generally spoken of in complimentary terms. This is a concrete gauge of the US President's commitment to social welfarism, although it would be interesting to ascertain how far he would be proceeding on this purportedly Social-Democratic course, given the state's commitment to bolstering the country's defence and security requirements and its general inclination to fight the perceived worldwide Al-Qaeda threat.

It is of tremendous importance, given this general backdrop, that Obama in his address to the nation, following his second swearing-in, has called on the US citizenry, to 'answer the call of history' and unite as 'one nation' to eliminate inequality in their country. It should stand to reason that the desired unity would result, among other factors, from a perception among the public, that they enjoy equality of opportunity and condition. A Social-Democratic polity could be instrumental in bringing about such an order of things in the US, provided the Republican-dominated House of Representatives is solidly behind its President.

So, the US in particular and the West in general too could be said to be caught –up in a 'Bread or Guns?' dilemma. On the one hand, the West is compelled to maintain or bolster its defence spending and on the other, keep its citizens out of the poverty trap. Besides, the US in particular, cannot afford to be too financially dependent on major East Asian powers, such as, China, without compromising its dominance in the world economy. Even while maintaining unruffled trade and investment relations with China, the US is compelled to contain Chinese military muscle in the Asia-Pacific and this too is a dilemma the US is currently uncomfortably up against. These dilemmas the West is obliged to resolve while managing the perceived worldwide Al-Qaeda threat as well. The recent bloody hostage crisis in Algeria points to the fact that the West cannot afford to be complacent on this score too.

Accordingly, the might of the West, could be very much on the wane although it would stand its ground in the foreseeable future. But it is hoped that Social-Democracy would make a strong comeback in the West because this paradigm holds the key to a more enlightened, empowered and literate public. A public with these attributes would be in a position to influence state policy and take the world in the direction of a less conflict-ridden future.









Permanent separation, answer to perennial clashes at Moratuwa Uni.

Separate institution for NDT students under a separate Act - VCThree arrested students to be produced at identification parade - PoliceWe will boycott examinations until authorities ensure security - engineering students Despite IT being relocated, should be affiliated to Moratuwa Uni. - NDT students

January 23, 2013, 12:00 pm

by Dasun Edirisinghe

The Engineering Faculty and the Institute of Technology of the Moratuwa University being closed indefinitely a week ago following another clash between the engineering undergraduates and the National Diploma in Technology (NDT) students has been a problem that has been going on for many years. The solution to the perennial problem appears to be in shifting the IT to another location as early as possible. A location has already been identified at Homagama, but the problem is the shortage of funds to build the necessary infrastructure.

The second clash and closure for the year came a few days after re-opening of the Engineering Faculty for final year engineering undergraduates and the Institute of Technology for all NDT students a week later.

Residents of the area said that although both student factions were the cream of the GCE (Advanced Level) mathematics stream, yet every year they clashed with each other which caused disruption not only to their education, but also to the community surrounding the University.

After bloody clashes, each year, both sides point the finger at each other for starting the violence. This time too, both student factions blamed each other and several elements including political parties, engineering community, intellectuals express their views in support of either side.

President of the Engineering Faculty Students' Union, Maduka Sampath Chandrasiri told The Island their students engrossed in studies targeting final year examinations that were being held at the time of the closure of the faculty.

He charged that the NDT students wanted to sabotage the examination of the engineering faculty students.

"This is not a fresh battle, this is coming from a long time ago and we always become victims always," Chandrasiri said.

He said that this time too, four engineering undergraduates had to be hospitalised and one of them with serious brain injuries is being treated at the Colombo National Hospital.

Chandrasiri said that the university administration would have to ensure their security before re-opening the faculty.

He said that their union decided to boycott the examinations until authorities ensured enough security for engineering students.

"We discussed the situation with the Dean of the Engineering Faculty and the Vice Chancellor," Chandrasiri said adding that they would co-operate with the university administration to create a peaceful environment in the university.

However, Higher Education Minister S. B. Dissanayake blamed the Frontline Socialist Party (FSP) for instigating NDT students to create trouble.

He said that the JVP breakaway faction, the FSP was now creating trouble in universities now, while and the Higher Education Ministry was working to stop all kinds of violence prevalent in universities.

"We are working according to the country's laws and there was no room for anyone to violate those using undergraduates," Dissanayake said.

Rejecting Minister Dissanayake's assertions, FSP Propaganda Secretary Pubudu Jayagoda blamed the Minister and the Vice Chancellor of the university for being responsible for the recent clash.

"The university administration and the police simply failed to intervene appropriately to prevent the clashes," he said.

Jayagoda said that they did not need to take any side, engineering or NDT, but anyone has the right to engage in politics in universities.

Spokesman of the NDT Students' Union Raveendra Ratnayake said that they were against relocating their institute without adequate facilities, including laboratories at the new location.

He said that even if the Institute of Technology was relocated elsewhere they wanted it to continue as an affiliated institution of the Moratuwa University.

"Our course was started first in these premises before the university came into being," Ratnayake said.

He said that under the provisions of the University Act No 01 of 1972, the University of Ceylon was established in 1972, incorporating all the existing universities and the Ceylon College of Technology as campuses of a single university.

Explaining the historical developments over the years, Ratnayake said the Ceylon College of Technology thus became the Katubedda Campus of the University of Ceylon.

Further changes in the corporate structure and composition were effected by the Universities Act No.16 of 1978. Under the Act, the Katubedda Campus of the University of Sri Lanka acquired the status of an independent University with its present corporate name 'University of Moratuwa.

"If the authorities provided all the facilities and relocate our unit as an affiliated body of the Moratuwa University, we are ready to move out without unnecessary fighting," Ratnayake said.

Vice Chancellor Prof. Ananda Jayawardena said that the authorities decided to establish a separate institution for the NDT student outside the university under a separate Act as a solution to the problem.

For this purpose, a committee appointed in 2000 made their recommendations which were scheduled to be carried out within five years, he said.

Prof. Jayawardena said that the delay was due to lack of land to build the new institution.

"However, we got a 20 acre land for the purpose a few years ago at Diyagama, Homagama," he said adding that now it was being delaying due to lack of funds.

According to Prof. Jayawardena, the estimated cost of the project was US$ 89.5 million and an agreement was signed with a Chinese company for its construction in January 2012.

Meanwhile, he said that they appointed a retired judge to head the disciplinary committee to probe both clashes that took place between the two groups in the university this year and the police would conduct a separate investigation.

The Moratuwa Police said that so far four NDT students had been arrested in connection with the latest attack and three of them had been remanded till January 28, while one student had been released on bail.

"We will produce three remanded students at an identification parade on Jan. 28," Inspector Chammika Sampath told The Island.

IP Chammika said that the police had recorded statements from 33 students and 11 security officers so far and they would record statements of lecturers too.

He said that the police were on the lookout for more students on the basis of evidence recorded from various parties.

Meanwhile, the Institution of Engineers, Sri Lanka (IESL) condemned the deplorable act of unprovoked, planned violence unleashed on the students of the country's premier Engineering Faculty.

IESL President Eng. Tilak de Silva said that most of undergraduates were studying for their final year examinations on the night of the brutal and inhumane attack.

He said that those students were the cream of the GCE (A/L) mathematics stream, a national asset on which the nation has invested time and money.

"As the premier engineering professional body, we have the responsibility to safeguard the engineering profession and engineering education in Sri Lanka," de Silva said.

The IESL request the authorities at all levels to bring the culprits to justice and set an example to halt such destructive and inhumane culture that is engulfing the society, he said.





The State: Something is rotten

What are we doing about it?

January 23, 2013, 7:47 pm

So many dire happenings prove that there's something definitely rotten in the state of our beloved country. Leave the ordinary citizen bereft of speech alone. A good thing, perhaps, for her/his own safety, in view of the death threats received by such eminent persons as Romesh de Silva PC, Jayampathy Wickremaratne PC, senior lawyer J.C. Weliamuna and M. A. Sumanthiram, MP. These warnings purport to come from a 'Patriotic Front.' It's laughable that today's self-styled `patriots' are those who do the most damnable things to disgrace Sri Lanka.

However, I am writing in support of a letter published in your columns (21/1/13), from one Fr. Augustine Fernando, headed "WOMEN WITH CHARACTER AND SELF-RESPECT." He rightly salutes two women who have been in the news recently - women from two completely different backgrounds, yet both acting with dignity and self-respect: grief-stricken Fathima, mother of Rizana, who was executed in Saudi Arabia after a prolonged period of imprisonment, who, despite her family's extreme poverty, is reported to have spurned the very idea of receiving any financial "gift" from the Saudi authorities who put her daughter to death; and, at the other end, Dr. Shirani Bandaranayake who, throughout the ordeal of her farcical impeachment, brought to mind Kipling's lines in his famous poem, "IF" -

"If you can keep your head when all about you

Are losing theirs and blaming it on you ..."

She kept her head and her dignity despite the foul language directed at her in Parliament and the circus that was orchestrated outside her official residence when she left it.

May I be permitted also to quote from two very relevant articles which appeared in your issue of Saturday (9)? Both writers, former diplomat K. Godage and your regular courageous Saturday columnist `Shanie', made pertinent observations on the imperative need for genuine efforts at peace and reconciliation if we are to forge as a united Sri Lankan nation. Shanie pointed out that even in regard to the impeachment, the ethnicity of the lawyers appearing for Dr. Bandaranayake and of the judges hearing her cases was raised as an issue by rabble-rousers which included Cabinet ministers. As he said, "The silence of the President and his powerful brothers in the face of such hate speeches lead one to suspect that communal hatred as a weapon to hit opponents has the blessing of the rulers."

Mr. Godage, in a pragmatic article written in quite a different context, recommending the imminent Indo-Lanka Joint Commission as an "IDEAL FORUM TO DEBATE SERIOUS ISSUES", concludes with an earnest plea:

"Let us not give room to anyone to preach to us, let us give ourselves a home-grown Democratic Constitution where the Rule of Law prevails, a system of governance which ensures that all our people feel a sense of pride, of belonging to a multi-ethnic country where equality is paramount and which safeguards the dignity of all our people." We ordinary citizens can say a fervent "Amen!" to that.

Anne Abayasekara

pic

Lawyers shout slogans and march condemning the government's move to impeach Chief Justice Shirani Bandranayke during a protest.(File photo)





Poverty alleviation needs an active civil society

January 23, 2013, 7:51 pm

Nowadays, the buzz word is poverty alleviation, hence the reason for the passing of the Divineguma Bill in Parliament. Recently, the Governor of the Central Bank waxed eloquent about the rise in the "Prosperity Index", yes, it is true 1% of the population has got richer judging by the luxury cars and SUVs plying our roads, and expensive luxury apartments inhabited by the hoi-polloi. No one grudges them these luxuries, but the more riches accumulated by a few means those balance 99% are deprived access to even the basic essentials which have become unaffordable to the majority.

At regular intervals during the fiscal year, prices of all goods and services keep rising, unlike in the past when prices were increased only during the annual budget. This makes domestic budgeting (household finances) an impossible task.

Minister Dr.Sarath Amunugama exhorted the people to practise thrift by cutting down on expenses and by saving more. He meant well, but the awful fact is that those on monthly salaries with no perks and privileges can't even manage to put three square meals on the table, let alone one meal.

Thrifty living has to start from the top – from the President downwards, by cutting down on wasteful expenditure. It's a sin to levy such heavy taxes on basic essentials, primarily food. In the past the poor man's protein was Dhal and rice with a pol sambol. I bought a kilo of Dhal recently at a cost of Rs. 197/- , sugar Rs. 132/- a Kg and so on. The average daily wage of a worker is Rs. 200 – Rs. 300 and it is a fact that 60% of the working population earns only Rs. 8,000/- a month. 1.5 million households consume an average of 30 units of electricity a month (at five per household 7.5 million people can't afford to switch on a light). Because of the 40% surcharge, my own electricity bill has risen by Rs. 1,900/- a month and I don't have air-conditioners or use security lights, just my bedside lamp at night.

Civil society does not lodge protests because they lack the energy and the will, besides we can see the violent manner in which protesters are treated, water cannons, tear gas, batons and bullets. So I am imploring civil society to help those in need by sharing and caring – even the smallest act or charity will make person happy – if you have reading material, pass them on; if you have extra coconuts from your garden, give them away; newspapers once read, can be given to a poor neighbour who can't afford it. Food and clothes, extra furniture, bed linen and so on. These are the small things we can donate to put the smile on a face.





'Bank with a heart' hoping for love on Valentine's Day

* Seylan's Rs. 2bn debt issue opens next month

January 23, 2013, 12:00 pm

The Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) said yesterday (23) that it approved in principle Seylan Bank PLC's application to raise up to Rs. 2 billion via a debt issue.

The bank is planning to offer 10 million unsecured, redeemable debentures at Rs. 100 each to raise Rs. 1 billion from the country's capital market with an option to double the issue if oversubscribed, raising a total of Rs. 2 billion, the stock exchange said.

Subscription lists for the issue opens this Valentine's Day (Feb. 14)

Managers to the issue are Kenanga Investment Corporation Ltd. Registrars to the issue are P.W. Corporate Secretarial (Pvt) Ltd.

The prospectus is expected to be released on February 05.

According to the latest published financial results, Seylan Bank recorded an impressive net profit for the nine-months ending September 2012 amounting to Rs. 1,604 million, up a massive 429.37 percent from Rs. 303 million a year earlier.

The bank grew its deposit base by Rs. 13.8 billion, or 15 percent (annualised) and the advances portfolio by Rs. 12.7 billion, 14 percent (annualised) as at end September 2012. Its NPA ratio fell from 14.24 percent in 2011 to 12.99 percent by end of September 2012.





While challenges are an essential part of governance and indeed of life, the government was always ready to share its thoughts and plans with the public, because the support of the people was the ultimate strength of the government, Minister of External Affairs Professor G. L. Peiris said in Tangalle and Mulkirigala on Monday.

He was speaking at ceremonies to inaugurate a computer laboratory at Wakamulla Vidyalaya and to donate equipment and books at Kirama Dhammananda Vidyalaya.

Public awareness was nowhere more important today than in relation to the dramatic changes taking place in the field of education, he said. One of the prominent features of government policy with regard to education was firm commitment to making available to students in all parts of the country facilities and resources in no way inferior to what was offered in the leading schools of Colombo, he said,

"It is in pursuit of this objective that computer and other facilities, necessary for imparting a complete education relevant to the needs of our time, are now being rapidly introduced into schools in the Hambantota district," he observed.

He recalled the days, not so long ago, when schools in the area were deprived of even basic facilities. That situation had been reversed today and talented students from the district were now able to hold their own and even to perform better at public examinations than students from privileged schools, he noted. This is the result of a sustained policy being implemented by the government to ensure that the fruits of peace, stability and economic development are enjoyed in full measure in all parts of the country and not restricted to a few areas which have hitherto been the sole focus of attention, he said.

It was directly in consequence of this concern for social equity, underpinning the philosophy to which the government was committed, that students from the area were able to achieve for themselves satisfying careers in the public service, the professions and entrepreneurship, he said.

Minister Peiris proceeded to sound a note of caution. He said that these gains, if they were to continue, should be strenuously defended by the public at large. It must not be forgotten that the government had to hold at bay powerful forces and thwart their designs in order to overcome terror and to emancipate the people from its stronghold. The Minister referred to the persistent efforts made by powerful elements to stop the military operation during its decisive final stages. Had it not been for the resolve shown by the political leadership, the carnage would be continuing even today, he said.

After the eradication of terrorism, the country was told, in no uncertain terms, that it was being punished for not heeding the views of these elements, and an economic price was exacted by the withdrawal of significant trade benefits."What we now see, unfolding before us, is yet another phase in this campaign," the Minister remarked. What is now sought to be done is to use human rights as a political weapon in the most selective and discriminating way imaginable to introduce obstacles in the way of the country's economic and social progress, he said.

Prof. Peiris assured that the government had the courage to overcome those challenges, no less evident at the present time than even at the height of the conflict. He cautioned, however, that there was no room for complacency, and that the people must rally round the government to protect and consolidate the hard won benefits which they enjoy today.

Ven. Ambakolaweta Dhammaratana Thero and Siriwardena, the Principals of the two schools, Chandima Rasaputra, Minister of Education of the Southern Provincial Council, Southern Provincial Councillor Kapila Dissanayaka and Mahinda Gamachchi, Vice Chairman of the Weeraketiya Pradeshiya Sabha, addressed the gathering.





Kulasekara's ton for Wayamba in vain

Inter-Provincial Limited-over Cricket

January 23, 2013, 10:55 pm

by Roshen Steelman

Opener Ian Daniel's 92 runs and a solid bowling performance from Uthura-Neganahira Combined team helped them to a 7-wicket win over Wayamba in their Inter-Provincial Tournament match played at Maitland Crescent, Colombo yesterday.

Wayamba put into bat lost wickets at regular intervals and were eight for 110 at one stage but No.6 bat Kosala Kulasekara, sharing stands with the last two batsmen, took Wayamba to a total of 188. Kulasekara scored 104 off 78 balls hitting nine sixes and six fours.

Chasing the target, opener Ian Daniel scored 92 runs to steer Uthura-Neganahira Combined team home with 94 balls to spare.





Peter van der Merwe no more

January 23, 2013, 10:59 pm

Peter van der Merwe, the former South Africa captain, has died at the age of 75 in Port Elizabeth. He had been in poor health, Cricket South Africa said.

Van der Merwe played 15 Tests for South Africa, from 1963 to 1967, and captained in eight of them, leading the team to a series victory in England in 1965 and their first ever series victory over Australia in 1966-67. He was originally a left-arm spinner and later developed into a middle-order batsman.

After retiring, he served as South Africa's chairman of selectors when they were re-admitted to international cricket in 1991, for the tour of India and the 1992 World Cup. He also served as an ICC match referee from 1992 to 1999.









3. David Larter of England was also 6ft 7 inches (This was mentioned by one of your readers who wrote in your columns – Mr. J. M. T. Fernando of Negombo, a few days after the list was published. I too had the privilege of seeing him in action when MCC played in Colombo.)

These names will create a change in the sequence of the list, with Tony Greig being placed at No. 3 and Larter, Finn and Tremlett at No. 4, 5 and six.

May I also add that Glenn McGrath of Australia was also 6ft 6 inches or 6ft 5 inches and warrants inclusion.

Isn't it strange that there are no batsmen on the top 10!. Three of the tallest batsmen that come to mind are Frank Woolley and Percy Chapman of England and Warwick Armstrong of Australia who were huge – but I have no record of their heights.

Even the 'Wisdens' of the period give no indicaton of this – so I can't be sure.

May be some readers of your columns could give some further information!













India lauds Lanka's economic progress

January 29, 2013, 10:27 pm

Indian Minister of State for Commerce and Industry Dr. D. Purandeswari had expressed her satisfaction over Sri Lanka's economic progress and infrastructure development.

During a meeting with Economic Development Minister Basil Rajapaksa at his ministry last week, she told him that she was impressed wuth the development of the Northern and Eastern Provinces and added that the products of Sri Lankan garment factories, established in Hyderabad, were of high quality.

She explained that the tourism industry in Vishakhapatnam was well developed and discussed with Minister Rajapaksa the possibility of starting flights between Sri Lanka and Vishakhapatnam and other areas in India.

Minister Purandeswari also noted the progress made by Sri Lanka's tourism industry, contributing its maximum to develop the country's economy after 30 years of war, which seriously affected tourism in the island.

Minister Rajapaksa said that the government had been able to raise the nutrition level of people in every area of Sri Lanka. Cottage industries had helped housewives in Batticaloa to earn additional incomes. He told the visiting Indian Minister that the Sri Lankan Government was paying greater attention to developing the cottage textile industry and fisheries products. In addition, the government was focusing on improving the quality of life of people in the plantation and fisheries sectors and low-income groups in urban areas after identifying their needs. Accordingly, loan facilities, advice and guidance for developing small industries would be provided and better houses would be provided for those without proper housing. There would be more employment opportunities and the quantity and quality of products would be increased, he said.

Dr. Purandeswari commended the progress of the Indian-funded housing project launched in the North. Acting Indian High Commissioner in Sri Lanka P. Kumaran, Additional Secretary of India's Commerce, Industry and Textile Ministry J.S. Deepak, Director of the same Ministry Wandana Yadevi and Sri Lanka's Industry and Commerce Ministry Secretary Anura Siriwardena were among those who attended the meeting.





The year 2012 culminated with the Life Insurance arm of Asian Alliance Insurance PLC recording the highest-ever growth in its recent history by delivering above and beyond Rs. 2 billion in Gross Written Premium (GWP) for the period.

"The Life division has performed exceptionally well across all its key performance indicators (KPIs), namely, new business growth, GWP, client value (Average Policy Value) and operational profits. The Life team pursued new business opportunities aggressively through the year and this resulted in new business growth of 35% measured on the basis of the first year premium, which is the highest-ever growth recorded by the Life arm in its consistent growth stream," the insurer said in a statement.

"The company forged ahead to carve out a bigger slice of the insurance market by recording an increase of 29% on the total GWP growth, as against an industry average of 4% (Source: Insurance Association of Sri Lanka, IASL, statistics as at September 2012). This phenomenal growth in market share reflects the rapid rate at which AAI's Life business is capturing new business.

AAI continues to offer customized insurance solutions and prides itself on its attention to discerning selected customers who value the protection platform on which the company functions. The division's Average Client Value has risen to Rs. 74,000 during the year.

AAI has achieved rapid success within a short period of 11 years since it commenced operations in 1999. Today, it is a composite insurer which is one of the fastest growing insurance companies in the industry. The company has strengthened its credentials after its acquisition by the giant diversified conglomerate, the Softlogic Group, which is one of Sri Lanka's corporate success stories.





The wonder of Isle of Man

Isle of Man which is a part of the British Isles is annually visited by many thousands of strangers, mostly from the lower middle class.

It is mainly regarded as a health resort and has gained immense popularity all over the world for TT motorcycle races which is held in the May –June period.

The island is about 33 miles long and 17 miles wide .

The island boasts of plenty of greenery and mountainous areas with a wide exposure of placid waters.

According to the Tourism authorities in Isle of Man, there is a steady increase in the number of visitors to the island over the years and it will be interesting for the Sri Lankans to note that 438,000 visited the island in 2008 followed by 448,000 in 2009 and 654,000 in 2010.

This writer visited the salubrious island in November 2012,where one meets friendly and smiling people everywhere you travel.

Their hospitality is unsurpassed and the Manx, the native people of the island who are like Sri Lankans with their easy going lifestyle and they are ever ready to help anyone who needs their assistance.

Incidentally the internationally famed Bee Gees (The Gibb brothers Barry,Robin and Maurice) are of Manx descent.

Their simple mannerisms and the way of life prompted this writer to stay longer in Isle of Man.

In winter the weather was always pleasant though cold and travelling around the place was very convenient in public transport with a regular bus service as well as steam trains on narrow gauge.

One could notice that a large number of holidaymakers visit Douglas the capital of Isle of Man from Lancashire and Liverpool due to its closeness and there are even day visitors from these places.

Isle of Man Steam Packet Company, a name synonymous with a large number of visitors to the island as it ferries across hundreds of people and heavy cargo everyday in fast moving, modern steamers.

This writer was in Liverpool prior to leaving for Isle of Man and there were no ferries available neither from Albert Dock nor Berkenhead which is on the other bank of Albert Dock and had to take a train to Haychem port which was some distance away. The trains had to be changed at Wigan North West and Lancaster. The small train from Lancaster to Haychem port winds it way through picturesque surroundings.

Travellers who wish to sail to Dublin or any other port in Ireland should be warned that there are no ferries to Ireland during winter from Douglas.

The sea journey on the steamer lasts about four hours across the Irish sea.

Reaching the sea terminal at Douglas at dusk, a visitors first task would be to find some decent accommodation and there were comfortable rooms with attached bath available with bed and breakfast from 35 pounds sterling and above and there was also a hostel in the heart of the capital where rooms were available for even 10 pounds sterling which came in handy for budget travellers.

There were also high end hotels from the leading chains as well as the middle level hotels.

Every area this writer visited in Isle of Man had breathtaking views and the townships were meticulously planned and well groomed.

There were ancient edifices, some built many centuries ago and a common sight was a port in every city dotted with a number of fishing craft and yachts in which the affluent go sailing, sometimes around the world.

This writer met Elaine and Stephen Shayes, a Manx couple in Peel, a township steeped in history and a major fishing port while sipping coffee in the open air near the Peel Castle.

They had their yacht anchored in the Peel port and Stephen an engineer by profession said that he has sailed to many countries aboard his yacht and expressed his desire to visit Sri Lanka. He said he had been in transit in Colombo many times but never had the opportunity to visit "your beautiful country," and added that he would visit the island with his wife Elaine one day.

They were very much like a Sri Lankan couple and eager to help.

When this writer armed with a day pass wanted to travel to Tynworld. 3-5 miles away by bus (Public transport in Isle of Man like any other area in the UK was very punctual) , they offered to go out of the way and to drop me saying that it would become dark soon and that the opportunity of taking photographs would be lost as valuable time would be lost in travelling by public transport. They drove me all the way to Tynworld despite my protests. There hospitality and simplicity was immeasurable.

Port Erin, a little town along the South of the island is one of the most fascinating sites with a sandy beach and an enclosed harbour.

Milner tower, built in memory of philanthropist William Milner is one of the key attractions here and there are 40 spiral steps to climb to the top of the tower which provides amazing views of surrounding towns and the country side. Port Erin became popular among rich expatriates and the retired affluent and they came in droves and settled down in this beachfront, says a local.

The towns in Isle of Man namely the capital Douglas, Peel, Port Erin, Port St. Mary, Laxey and Ramsay are no second to the other with each offering a unique experience with breathtaking views and a pleasing climate as a tourist destination.

The capital Douglas is rather cosmopolitan and one comes across those belonging to other nationalities working there mingling with the Manx in great harmony. The pub at the Savoy Hotel along the promenade, turns out to be a melting with Manx, English, Spanish, Irish etc enjoying their favourite beverage every evening. The host is Hanneff a man of Indian descent whose father who was a great cook had migrated to England and married an English woman. Hanneff owns and operates the Savoy Hotel with his Irish wife.

The cliché 'Small is beautiful' applies to both Sri Lanka and Isle of Man. In Sri Lanka, one could move from one climate to another and one terrain to another in just a few hours. Isle of Man which is so compact and diverse is a pocket-sized version of Sri Lanka. Both are much sought after tourist destinations and Sri Lanka is a tropical country and Isle of Man is a land with cold climate.





Richmond, probably the best team

January 23, 2013, 11:07 pm

They are relatively a young outfit who can play for several years in this age category. But Richmond College, Galle, captained by Hasitha Madushan is probably the best team in the circuit going into their eighth match of the Under-19 cricket season with five outright victories already in the bag. It is not only the outstanding victory ratio that makes them the leading team of the tournament, but the strength in the batting department and the variety in the bowling armoury that has troubled all opposition batsmen this season.

Richmond commenced the season in remarkable fashion, recording back to back outright victories in the third term. They created history when they beat S. Thomas' College, Mount Lavinia for the first time. Incidentally, the boys from Galle were the first to lay their hands on the Tuder Jayasuriya Memorial Trophy, which was offered for the first time in the series between the two schools.

Then came yet another historic win, when they beat Ananda College, also for the first time in history. On both occasions, spinner A. K. Tyron, who is just one of the two colousmen in the team, was on the forefront in their bowling attack.

Spinners Tyron and Thisara Banuka are the only coloursmen in the team and the former was the key wicket taker in their victories against Ananda and S. Thomas', collecting 17 wickets in the two matches.

Maliyadeva College, Kurunegala, Dharmasoka College, Ambalangoda and minnows Kingswood College (Division II school) are the others who have suffered defeats at the hands of Richmond so far this season, while Royal College, Panadura, survived narrowly.

Royal College, Colombo is the only team to have negotiated theRichmond bowlers well as they were the only team to top 200 runs against Richmond. The spinners have been playing the dominant role in their bowling attack. While Tyron is their leading wicket taker with more than 40 wickets, left-arm spinner Saveen Nanayakkara has picked up nearly 30 wickets. Nanayakkara played vital roles in their matches against Royal (Colombo) and Maliyadeva.

Speedster Prabath Nishantha, Waruna Deshapriya and youngsters Charith Asalanka and Wanindu Hasaranga have all contributed in the bowling department.

In the batting department, no one has scored a century, but that has not affected the team as it was more a collective effort that has helped the team so far.

Skipper Hasitha Madushan, wicket keeper batsman Sithara Gimhan, Tyron and Asalanka are the leading run scorers for Richmond.

Their talents were also available for District and Provincial Under-15 and Under-19 tournaments conducted by Sri Lanka Cricket recently. While Tyron, Gimhan, Banuka and Saveen played in the Provincial Under-19 team, Asalanka and Hasaranga featured in the Under-15 team.

The team, captained by all rounder Madushan, has only one player going out from the side at the end of the season. Apart from Prabath Nissanka, playing in his final year, all others can play in future tournaments, which arguers well for the cricket powerhouse of Galle.

Coached by Dhammika Sudarshana and Damith Prasanna, ably supporting the team, Richmond are destined for greatness. With no other team coming close to match them in the number of victories so far in the Division I tournament, there is a strong likelihood of them sitting on the top of the list for the coveted Best Team title.





Army-Travelon nexus to explore 'war tourism'

One of the leading travel agencies in Sri Lanka Travelon Ltd has joined with the Army to boost 'war tourism' with tours to the war ravaged areas in the north.

Bandula de Silva, Director Operations, Travelon Ltd told "The Traveller" that there was a great demand for such tours and the company will be organising more tours to the area in the future.

"Domestic travellers, a large number of Sri Lankan expatriates and foreign tourists were very enthusiastic about discovering the area where the final battle in the 'humanitarian operation' took place and where the 30 year war ended bringing peace to the country," he said.

Hence are organsing meticulously planned tours to the sites connected with the civil strife keeping in minds comfort, care and safety.

The unique tour package will take the travellers to Mullaitiv and Nanthikadal ovenight stays will be provided at the newly built guest houses of the Mullaitiv H.Q camp named "Green House" and "Lagoon" (on 1st Feb).

The tour party will be escorted by an Army officer well versed with the area and the sites visited which covers the LTTE pirated "Ship Farah", Prabhakaran's four tier bunker, shooting range of the Tigers , Sea Tiger leader Soosai's house, Incomplete huge submarines, thousands of skeleton's of vehicles in graveyard, testing pool "82" feet long, Nanthikadal Lagoon (where Prabhakaran was killed and other key Tigers were killed) and Puthuukuduirippu to name a few.

After visiting Mullaitiv the group will proceed to Mannar where visits to Adam's Bridge from Talaimannar, Dutch fortress, Thiruketheeswaram Kovil and "Madhu" church on the cards.

The group will stay overnight in Anuradhapura before heading home to Colombo on February 4th.

This will be a unique experience to the Sri Lankans who saw the final battle on TV between the heroic Sri Lankan Armed forces and The LTTE in May 2009.

There are indications that all war remnants may be removed from Nanthikadal area by 2014.





Basil claims over 80 pc foreign funds used for development

January 29, 2013, 10:15 pm

Economic Development Minister Basil Rajapaksa yesterday said that over 80 per cent of foreign funds were channeled to the development projects in the North and the East though the UPFA was defeated in a number of elections in those areas.

He said that the Government provides assistance to all segments of society around the country without any discrimination. Massive development was taking place in the area adjacent to the Galle Face green, he said adding that two leading hotel chains in the world, namely Shangri-La and ITC have invested in two hotels overlooking the Galle Face promenade while development of the Colombo south harbour was progressing rapidly.

Minister Rajapaksa was speaking at the distribution of 108 vehicles among local Government institutions in the Western Province at the Galle Face Green yesterday.

The Western Provincial Council had spent Rs. 307 million for the project. Over 30 trucks and tractors were distributed among the local government bodies for waste management activities. Over 78 cabs and vans were distributed among the local government bodies and the institutions coming under the Western Provincial Council.

Rajapaska added that all parts of the Western province would receive the dividends of this development in the city. He said that the Western Province contributes more than half of the country's economy.





Kandurata-Uva in 13-run win

January 23, 2013, 10:56 pm

Chasing 219 for victory, Kandurata-Uva Combined team were 162 for four wickets when their Inter-Provincial Limited-over Tournament match against Ruhuna was interrupted by bad weather as the former enjoyed a 13-run win according to the D/L Method at R. Premadasa Stadium yesterday.

Ruhuna put into bat first were bundled out for a total of 219 with opener Shehan Jayasuriya top-scoring with 80 runs.

Chasing the target, some useful contributions made by top-order batsmen took Kandurata-Uva team 13 runs above the D/L par score when rain interrupted the game.





'Black January' protests Govt. failure to find journalists' killers

General Fonseka, Opposition politicians join demo

January 29, 2013, 9:46 pm

by Zacki Jabbar

The Alliance of Media Organizations yesterday staged 'Black January', at Lipton Circus, demanding that the Rajapaksa regime conducts proper investigations into the killing of all journalists and attacks on news organisation offices, including those committed under its rule.

A large number of placard carrying and slogan shouting journalists, belonging to seven media groups, gathered at the Lipton Circus roundabout yesterday afternoon. After demonstrating for a while, demanding that justice be meted out to those who had eliminated their colleagues, they proceeded to the National Library where a meeting was held.

Many politicians were in attendance, including the former Presidential Candidate General Sarath Fonseka and UNP, JVP and DNA parliamentarians. Representatives of the FSP, USA, Lawyers Collective, university lecturers, trade unionists and civil society organizations also participated.

A spokesman for the organizers said that no politician was invited, but they had come voluntarily.

The journalists demanded that the killing and assaults on all their colleagues including, Lasantha Wickremetunga and Sivaram (Taraki) and the disappearance of Cartoonist Prageeth Ekneligoda be properly investigated and justice be meted out to the offenders.

They also lamented the lethargy and lack of progress in the inquiries into attacks on news organisation offices, including 'Sirasa' Radio and Television and the websites Lanka E-News, SriLanka Mirror and SrilankaXnews, even though it had occurred over two years ago.

Many of the speakers noted that when any harm befell government politicians, the police had acted very swiftly and in most instances arrested the suspects within days and sometimes in a matter of hours, but the same efficiency was not displayed when members of the fourth estate were harmed.

They also called on the Rajapaksa regime to introduce, without any further delay, the Right to Information Act, if it was truly committed to transparency and good governance.





Vaiko challenges ban on LTTE

CHENNAI: The Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam leader, Vaiko, has moved the Madras high court opposing ban on the LTTE.

The first bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Elipe Dharma Rao and Justice Aruna Jagadeesan issued notices to the union of India and the Tamil Nadu government.

While the Centre issued a notification on November 7, 2012 invoking the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, the Tamil Nadu government issued a gazette notification on January 4, 2013.

Since 1992, when the LTTE was first banned in India, the governments had been extending the ban periodically. On June 6, 2012 the centre constituted Justice V K Jain committee and on July 17, 2012 and made the reference to the tribunal to adjudicate whether or not there was sufficient cause for declaring LTTE as unlawful association.

Vaiko, who argued the matter in the high court in person on Monday, said in the petition that the activities or pro-LTTE organisation, individuals, sympathisers, who are members of the LTTE cannot be reason to declare the LTTE as an unlawful association. Te centre has not produced any legally acceptable corroborative material to establish the particular activity was done by any of the embers of the LTTE.

Denying the Centre's claim that the LTTE's object for separate Tamil Eelam threatened the sovereign and territorial integrity of India, Vaiko said the object was restricted only to Tamils living in northern and eastern parts of Sri Lanka.

As for Centre's claim that fundraising and propaganda activities were on in Europe, Vaiko said neither the state nor the central government had given an iota of evidence to substantiate the allegation. As for internet propaganda against India, he said: "There is nothing wrong in the Tamil diaspora in criticising top Indian political leaders and bureaucrats responsible for the defeat of the LTTE. Had the Indian top political leaders and bureaucrats not aided the Sri Lankan government, there would not be any criticism against those responsible for the massacre of Tamils in Sri Lanka." (ToI)





Delimitation Commission invites written proposals

January 29, 2013, 9:47 pm

by Franklin R. Satyapalan

The National Delimitation Commission (NDC), tasked with the re-demarcation of electoral boundaries in the country, has invited civic organizations, political parties and individuals to send in their written proposals to the NDC Secretariat, at No. C/51, Keppettipola Mawatha, off Jawatte Road, Colombo-5, before February 15, 2013, according to Chairman of the Commission Jayalath Ravi Dissanayake.

He said that around 5,000 elected members of local councils throughout the country and about 1,500 members of the public would be identified and nominated to assist the District Delimitation Commissions in redemarcating the electoral boundaries.

A delimitation was being carried out at national level on the advise of President Mahinda Rajapaksa after a lapse of almost three decades following the war victory in 2009.

Secretary to the Ministry of Local Government and Provincial Councils, Keerthi Ranawaka said yesterday that the subject Minister A. L. M. Athaullah, in consultation with the Minister of Public Administration and Home Affairs, W. D. J. Seneviratne had appointed a senior SLAS official Jayalath Ravi Dissanayake to Chair the National Delimitation Commission (NDC).

He said that the other members of the NDC were SLAS officials H. G. Premasiri, Wimal Rubesinghe and A. A. H. M. Nehiya and Attorney-at-Law Andavan Devaraja.

Dissanayake said that the 25 District Delimitation Commissions would be chaired by the respective District Secretaries and comprise the Assistant Commissioner of Elections from the respective district, representatives of the Census and Statistics Department, Surveyor General, Provincial Minister of Local Government and a member nominated by the subject Minister of Local Government and Provincial Councils.

Dissanayake said that the Commission members has had one sitting at the Ministry of Local Government and Provincial Councils and three sittings at the Commissions's secretariat so far.

All Chairmen of the District Delimitation Commissions (DDC), the Government Agents, had been instructed to create an awareness among the general public about the delimitation exercise, obtain their opinion and prepare an interim draft on recommendations which should be forwarded to the National Delimitation Commission, he said.





Anandasangaree complains of step-motherly treatment

January 23, 2013, 8:33 pm

Speech delivered by Mr. V. Anandasangaree at the Annual General Meeting of the TULF held at the party headquarters on 29-12-2012:

I hope it will not be irrelevant if I quote a paragraph from a speech the President delivered at the 59th Independence Day ceremony, on the 4th of Feb.2007. He said "It is our duty to protect the lives and property of the Tamil and Muslim people and bring sanctity to the future world of their children. As I stated at the inauguration of the Moragahakanda maha Samudra. I wish to reemphasis that the most reliable weapons against terrorism is to do justice by the innocent Tamil People. I know that the Sinhala people in the South are ready for this. We are not ready to give into the blood thirsty demands of the LTTE. However at the minimum we should be reasonable and honest enough to agree with Mr. Anandasangaree or the Hon. Douglus Devananda" His Excellency's speech was broadcast and telecast by Rubavahini and some other TV stations and while whole country was listening and watching.. It should be noted that my proposal is for the adoption of the Indian Model and totally different from that of Douglus Devananda. Extracts of the above editorial are self explanatory. At the time this editorial appeared, the ITAK-TNA was acting as proxies of the LTTE accepting them as the sole representatives of the Tamil People. Why did not Mr. Sampanthan and Mavai Senathirajah take any action then that would have saved the lives of several thousand innocent people and billions worth of property both public and private. It was the ITAK-TNA that had failed to save the Tamils and not me. So, on what basis the so called intellectuals, political analysts free lance journalists and a section of Tamil media come to the conclusion the "TNA(ITAK) is the best for the Tamils". A Tamil daily published a translation of an article by a renowned journalist based in Canada, on the 5t of April, just two days before the date of polling, with the caption, "For the Tamils of the North and the East the best choise at the election would be TNA"I do not say that the Tamil daily publish it, deliberately aiming at my defeat at the poll. But why did this happen? How did it happen? Who is behind this plot hatched in foreign countries to hound a loner, and for what consideration remains a mystery, that needs investigation. Lot of incidents of horrendous nature took place off and on during the last few years. Everyone was silent excepting a very few of whom I had been one. If only all these forces had got together and condemned atleast one incident, thousands of lives and valuable properties could have been saved.

All the forces got together and identified me, one who did not cause any harm neither to the Tamils nor for the Tamil cause, as a "Traitor". From the time the Tamil United Front was inaugurated by Thanthai Chelva, up to now I had been following his footsteps and committed to non-violence. A large number of youths who had been working for the party truly and honestly had fallen victims to the bullets of the government forces. Their sacrifices are forgotten and now insulted as unemployed youths who took up arms against the state. Unfortunately no one found fault with the person who said so. How can that statement be justified? How many such leaders we lost? Thanthai Chelva gave TULF the flag with the rising sun as the symbol. It is the same flag with which his remains were wrapped in on his last journey. The history of Thanthai Chelva's achievements, sacrifices made by the youths and the leaders who worked with him devotedly and their heroic deeds were all completely forgotten and the important events not given publicity. The Federal Party is now telling a different tale to the new generation conceling from them the glorious past. The Federal Party given new life by a few is hiding the most important events of the old guards. The Federal Party that was founded by Thanthai Chelva was made inactive by him during his life time and reviving the Federal, Party without his consent and presence is considered as am act dishonoring or discrediting him.

When a University Student was burnt with his tractor and trailer for removing sand at Kudaththanai, it was I who had to protest. When Professor Ratnajeevan Hoole's appointment as vice Chancellor of the University of Jaffna was objected to, it was I who had to protest. There were very many such incidents like this.

The editor in his editorial had also brought out the fact that in my letter to the Chief Minister Dr. Karunanithi I had said that my proposal to the government of Sri Lanka to adopt a constitution like the Indian Model has received very wide support. He concludes his comments by saying "We are of the view that the TULF leader has written to the Indian Politician with a great sense of responsibility, because the democratic TULF leader maintains cordial relations with all parties in the South including the JVP and the JHU and other parties such as the SSMC and other Tamil Parties".

I do not know whether the Editor had over- expressed his confidence in me. But as far as I am concerned, irrespective of any constrains I had done my duty to my country and its people with devotion and care. Another National daily in its editorial dated 3rd Nov 2009 though not very friendly towards me, complemented me for taking the same stand even today on the ethnic issues that I took several months before the defeat of the LTTE. The TNA has taken different stands at different times while I am sticking to the Indian Model throughout as the ideal solution for the ethnic problem.

At this juncture I am duty bound to brief you about my activities and some other matters. A lot of those who were responsible for straining the relationship between me and Prabaharan and made me a deadly enemy of his, are now friendly with the Government. Merely because the press under threat described me as a traitor I am not angry with anybody. Today the situation is different and the press can write freely and save the Tamil people from the path of destruction. The late Mr. Amirthalingam was not shot on the orders of Prabaharan. The people should be warned of those who use Mr. Amirthalingam's name for personal gains.

The two foreign based journalist who without proper knowledge of the ground situation misled the Tamil People to vote for the TNA have not yet realised their mistake and rectified their blunder. A Member of Parliament who entered Parliament on their recommendation, without knowing the history of the Tamil struggle had said that those who took up arms were unemployed youths and that the Geneva resolutions were due to his efforts and that he spent three months abroad in this connection. He should have been pulled up by the leadership for his contradictory statements. Such people could enter Parliament because of these two journalist. It is this gentleman who said that most of the civilians were killed by the LTTE. He also claims to be the spokesman of the TNA. Within a few days more than 3oo youths were arrested in Trincomalee and other places after a Member of Parliament claimed in Madurai that Prabaharan is alive and will return soon. It is due to such thoughtless, statements the University students and some other innocent youths had been arrested. A large some of money collected abroad in the name of the TNA and brought to Sri Lanka for the refugees, have not been accounted for. How long can the TULF share the blame arising out of various activities of some members of the TNA. Although it is now more than two years since we started working with the TNA, up to now we have not been consulted in respect of even one out of several discussion that took places with the TNA. Those who urge the people to vote for the ITAK- TNA should tell us whether we should still carry them on the Palanquin. Whatever happens without working as Palanquin carriers, the TULF is prepared truthfully to give full support to the TNA. It is truth that Thanthai Chelva's soul is restlessly roaming about, demanding that the Federal Party should work honestly without forgetting many facts that had not come to light.

The people cannot be cheated all the time. Very soon, one day those responsible for these irregularies will have to meet with great lost. I am not blaming any press individually. We have to take into account the concerns of those who had sacrificed the lives of many journalist.

The people of the majority community should be approached with few guarantee and if they have any doubts such doubts should be cleared. I advise Mr. Sampanthan that he should help to persuade the majority community to accept the Indian Model of the constitution, which may be acceptable to them.

My advice to Mr. Sampanthan would be to stick to the Indian Model as a solution to our problem that can be easily made acceptable to the majority community if approached carefully with proper guarantees to allay their fears, if they have any.





Skills development should be part of school curriculum – UN Expert

Skills development should be included in the school's curriculum from Grade I, Youth Development Expert, attached to the United Nations, Ravi Karkara said yesterday.

Karkara who is on a short visit to Sri Lanka, yesterday met officials of the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Skills Developmen including the Chairman of National Institute of Business Management and Vice Chancellor of the University of Vocational Technology, Working Director of the National Youth Services Council Milinda Rajapaksha at the Ministry.

Karkara said that Sri Lanka was the only country that links youth affairs with skills development as a ministry.

"Sri Lanka could be developed to be the youth leadership training centre in Asia," the expert said.

Karkara said that the global youth force should get involved in the global development process and it should be the main focus of future youth policies.

Working Director of the National Youth Services Council Milinda Rajapaksha said that Sri Lanka's first ever National Youth Policy would be introduced next year.

He said a fourth of the Sri Lankan population was youth and there should be a youth policy prepared to involve 5.6 million youths in national development.

"We will collect public opinion through the Sri Lanka Federation of Youth Clubs and selected non-governmental organizations," he said adding that they would collect opinion from all sectors of the society from grassroots to intellectual levels.

According to him, two national committees have already been appointed to draft the policy.





Who killed Tony Greig?

January 23, 2013, 8:23 pm

by Carlo Fonseka

Mrs. Vivian Greig's final tribute to Tony was exquisitely moving: "...you were my ultimate best, best friend, my confidante and my great love..." These were the thoughtful and measured words of a mature woman, not the impulsive ejaculation of adolescent calf-love. Judging from the outpouring of emotion implicit with those words, she could well have echoed American poet Anne Bradstreet's lines: "If ever two were one, then surely we/ If ever man were loved by wife, then thee."

BIASED

In thought, word and deed Tony Greig also loved Sri Lanka and its people. We reciprocated his love in full measure. Unarguably he was the peerless cricket commentator of our time. Proverbially, kissing goes by favour and Tony was manifestly and overtly biased in our favour. He was lavish in his praise of the talent of our boys and he gave them the benefit of every doubt in the cricket field. No one should believe that cricket commentaries are exercises in "randomized, double-blind, controlled trials" and it was not our fault that Tony loved us.

PRE-MEDITATED MURDER

I came to know that Tony's lung cancer was diagnosed in Sri Lanka and it made distressing news. Within a few weeks, while he was awaiting surgery, the shocking news came that he had died of a heart attack. Dear readers, please bear with me when as Chairman of The National Authority on Tobacco and Alcohol (NATA), I remind you for the nth time that there are four major killers in the modern world — cardiovascular diseases, cancers, diabetes and chronic lung diseases — and two of their major causative factors are tobacco use and alcohol abuse. When the appalling news came of Tony's death I found a member of my immediate family looking very sad, depressed, sombre and pensive. On inquiry I gathered that he had got to know Tony quite well at the golf club. The rest of our conversation will take no one by surprise and I will not recount it here.

INDICTMENT

With prejudice to none I write this to the Editor to publicly accuse the tobacco industry of killing our dear Tony Greig so prematurely. In a manner of speaking, it did so by hook and by crook — by the combination of a huge lung cancer and a massive heart attack. It also killed my father and two of my younger brothers prematurely. And to this day I'm suffering from a chronic lung disease caused by inhaling second hand tobacco smoke exhaled by my chain-smoking father. In the early 1930's when I was two or three years old he used to smoke with me on his lap. I forgive my father because at that time he did not know what he was doing.

DAMN THE INDUSTRY

Mr. Editor, humanity can longer forgive the evil industry and may I thank you for the unconditional support you have always given NATA in our crusade against the tobacco menace. To strengthen your hand, allow me to draw your attention to a book called the GOLDEN HOLOCAUST published in 2011. Its author is Professor Robert N Proctor of the University of Stanford, USA. One reviewer said of the book: " Robert Proctor draws an unvarnished conclusion: that the tobacco industry and the men who led were evil, plain and simple." The title of the book Golden Holocaust derives from the fact that Hitler's holocaust killed 6 million Jews. The tobacco industry kills 6 million people worldwide every year. The concluding sentence of Professor Proctor's 737- page book goes like this: "...To reclaim clean air for the commons, and to prevent needless suffering including millions of those not yet born, the manufacture and sale of cigarettes must be abolished."





Champika removed to please India says Tissa

January 29, 2013, 10:20 pm

by Zacki Jabbar

The government had removed Patali Champika Ranawaka from the post of Power and Energy Minister to please India, the UNP alleged yesterday.

General Secretary of the UNP, Tissa Attanayake told a news conference in Colombo, that it was Ranawaka who had resisted moves to give New Delhi a free hand in commissioning the Sampur Coal Power Plant, which was scheduled for 2016.

The former Power Minister was opposed to the terms of agreement and that was the reason for him being moved out to the Ministry of Technology Research and Atomic Energy, in Monday's Cabinet reshuffle, he noted.

Attanayake, alleged that External Affairs Minister G. L. Peiris, during his ongoing visit to New Delhi, had assured VVIP's there that they would be given total control of the Sampur project.

The Rajapaksa regime by pleasing India was hoping that it would not support a resolution that was to be moved against Sri Lanka by some western countries, at the United Nations Human Rights Council annual session, slated for March, he observed.

Attanayake, said that the sudden Cabinet reshuffle was obviously not performance oriented, but purely to pacify its biggest neighbour and also reward those who had worked overtime during the impeachment of Chief Justice Shirani Bandranayake.





Basil washes hands off FDI, dumps it on Luxman - UNP

January 29, 2013, 12:00 pm

Having failed miserably to attract even half the USD 2.0 billion target of Foreign Direct Investments for 2012 and with the writing on the wall for 2013, minister Basil Rajapaksa had conveniently passed the headache to Luxman Yapa Abeywardene, UNP National List MP Dr. Harsha de Silva said.

In a statement issued to the media, Dr De Silva said: "The first test is to see if he succeeds in completing the delayed payment from Krrish Group for the 4-acre Transworks land that was handed over without any transparent procedure. As deputy minister on 24 November 2012 he announced that Krrish would complete the full payment of LKR 5,000 million by 15 December 2012. It is now known that this has not materialized.

"The fact, as we have subsequently unearthed, is that the payment-plan has been altered three times in total contravention to the Cabinet decision No. 11/0803/519/010 of 4 April 2011. The original legal agreement was that Krrish would make a 20 percent payment immediately and the remaining 80 percent at the time of signing the lease agreement. The payment plan however had been amended without a new Cabinet approval on 30 July to pay 10 percent immediately, 50 percent on signing the lease agreement and the remaining 40 percent in 6 months. Then once again it had been amended without Cabinet approval to make a 10 percent payment immediately and thereafter to make the remaining 90 percent payment at on signing the lease agreement.

"However according to the newly appointed minister 10 percent had been paid and around the day the remaining 90 percent was to be paid, that is 15 December 2012 as per his own statement in Parliament, another 28 percent had been paid. This is a strange development to say the least, as according to statements in Parliament the only hindrance in signing the lease agreement was the vesting on two small blocks of land to the UDA, but that too had been completed several weeks back.

It seems that Krrish, who is desperately attempting to raise money locally by pre-selling apartments at over LKR 100 million per unit, is unable to come up with the money.

"However before passing judgment on the new minister of investment promotion we shall see how quickly he gets the Krrish Group to make the now seriously overdue payment."





Another pensioner's tale of woe

January 23, 2013, 12:00 pm

I am far below the prestige of Dr U Pethiyagoda, who wrote in this page on January 21s that though he had served many years in semi government top posts, was a representative to world organizations and served as a diplomat, he gets no pension and is taxed to boot. There have been many laments of late by pensioners and I add my grouse to the pile, which will, in all probability go unnoticed and unrectified.

I was a teacher for 20 years: committed, considerate of my pupils etc and now receive the princely sum of Rs 15,000 per month as pension, inadequate to even meet my medical costs which are for the usual ill health of the older person. Mercifully, I have caring children.

My complaint is that we have to prove we are among the living at the end of each year by going from pillar to post. Otherwise, kaput goes our pension payments. Now this stipulation, unlike increasing our pensions in a country now governed for only the rich and sycophants and totally non-caring of those who devoted honestly their lives to their professions, is a possibility. Why cannot members from the overstaffed Pensions Department (all government departments are bursting at the seams with politically recruited redundant staff) visit the address given and verify whether the pensioner is alive or driven to death?

This is because we pensioners, many doddering, incapacitated and unable to get about, are expected to go to the Grama Sevaka (GS) and get his signature and seal to testify the pensioner is alive (though in reality half dead) and then proceed to the relevant Pensions Department. Take my case to prove the inconvenience of this exercise:

* Grama Sevaka's usually are Elusive Pimpernels minus Baronet Orczy's original of aristocratic lineage and do -gooding. The GSs are here one day, gone the next.

* For three previous signings I have been to the GS whose office is somewhere near Skelton Road and got the needful done (often necessitating more than one visit). A couple of days ago I went there to be told my division is elsewhere. I informed him I'd got my paper signed by a GS who sat on the very chair he was occupying. No, I had to go elsewhere but I must say he respected my grey hair and phoned someone and directed me to meet a Mr E.... who would be at a temple in Colombo 3. This person was mercifully present and he too respected my age and signed my paper before some others who had come on different business saying: Api penshan karinta salakiya uthui. At least he retains respect and consideration.

* With the paper duly signed I went to the Narahenpita Pensions Department office and gave it in.

I found, on going to the bank to withdraw my pension in July last year that my pension was withheld. My saying I was alive as he could well see held no water with the bank official. "You will have to go to the Pensions Department and verify." I wended my way to the Pensions Department, working myself up to demand a reason. The girls there were so smilingly quick to give me a paper to restore my pension that I forgot my question. I surmise they are doing random checks on us oldies!

I proposed earlier one way in which the Department could ease our lot – checking on our existence. Another is to let us know in the form they send in December for verification to which divisional GS each of us should go. Not too onerous a task as it is SLIDA that processes the forms, or so I believe.

We hope notice will be taken of his letter and the pensioners' lot eased even a little bit.





BBDO Lanka MD Santosh Menon is scheduled to speak at the first ever TEDx event to be held in Mauritius. He will be one of the five local and international voices chosen to address the occasion for having a unique story or an unusual perspective and who can convey it in a short and dynamic way. The conference, which has been organized under the theme 'Going Beyond', is scheduled to take place on Thursday January 31 at the Star Cinema, Bagatelle.

TEDx is a non-profit and independently organised event operated under license from TED which is devoted to Ideas Worth Spreading. Having begun as a four-day conference in California 25 years ago, TED has grown to support those world-changing ideas with multiple initiatives. The annual TED Conference invites the world's leading thinkers and doers to speak for 18 minutes. Their talks are then made available, free, at www.ted.com. TED speakers have included Bill Gates, Al Gore, Julian Assange, Philippe Starck, Peter Gabriel, Richard Branson, Gordon Brown, Bono and Frank Gehry.

Viti Kothari, Curator, TEDxPlainesWilhems, commented: "We are excited about bringing the premiere TEDx event to Mauritius. TEDx is an extraordinary forum for sharing ideas that go beyond sectors, age, gender, education and professional achievements. At the inaugural event five amazing national and international speakers will speak about their one idea worth spreading. From using music to fight poverty, to transforming the ordinary into extraordinary, to using technology as an extension of human capability, to making brands purposeful — going beyond the status quo in all aspects of life and inspiring a generation to believe in themselves and make a difference."

BBDO Lanka MD Santon Menon counts over two decades of advertising experience across a diverse range of locales and cultures in the countries of India, Sri Lanka and Indonesia – where he was GM at DraftFCB. Over the course of his career he has handled major brands such as Fonterra, Godrej, Wipro Consumer Care, Seven Seas and Standard Furukawa.

"I am delighted to be given this opportunity to present my views on brands in Mauritius. I am conscious that in a sense, I will be representing the Sri Lankan advertising industry in Mauritius and so, I will be at my best," he stated. Menon whose address is titled 'Brand Magic' will be speaking on brands making a positive difference in the communities they operate in. "Products meet needs but brands create magic and advertising has been a key tool in brand creation. In today's world, new and engaging ideas make brands more magical and relevant to consumers. A creative idea can solve a difficult marketing problem, but whilst exciting and engaging people also make a genuine difference in their lives," he said.

Since August 2011 Menon has been the driving force behind BBDO Lanka, the Sri Lankan affiliate of the BBDO global network, which soon after celebrating its first year of operations in the country was named 'Rest of South Asia Creative Agency of the Year 2012' – Silver by Campaign Asia-Pacific magazine.

BBDO Lanka, under the helm of Menon, is uniquely positioned in the advertising industry having launched its Force for Good initiative in 2012 by becoming the first carbon neutral advertising agency in South Asia. It also launched Asia's first ever mechanical air purifying billboard and contributed to the 'Bikes for Life' initiative which provides children in the North with bikes and thus a means to get to school and not miss out on an education.

BBDO Lanka is also the only Sri Lankan advertising agency with branch operations in Mauritius and since 2011 has been engaged in doing truly exciting work for Mauritius Commercial Bank (MCB). MCB is the oldest and largest banking institution in Mauritius and a true pioneer in its banking sector. BBDO Lanka also does projects for the Edendale Ltd.





Australia beat SL by 32 runs to even ODI series

January 23, 2013, 10:51 pm

Australia's Phillip Hughes plays a shot off the bowling of Sri Lanka's Lasith Malinga, unseen, during their fifth One-Day International at Hobart. Australia won the game and the series was drawn 2-2. (AP)

HOBART, Australia (AP) — Moises Henriques and Xavier Doherty took three wickets each to capitalize on Phil Hughes' unbeaten century Wednesday as Australia beat Sri Lanka by 32 runs and share the five-match limited-overs series 2-2.

Despite an aggressive 38 off 39 balls by Mahela Jayawardene and a defiant half century from Angelo Mathews, Sri Lanka could manage just 215 in its chase of Australia's 247 and just a second series win on Australian soil.

After Australia won the first game of the series, Sri Lanka took a 2-1 lead before the fourth match in Sydney was washed out on Sunday.

Spinner Doherty (3-21) made a vital breakthrough and sparked something of a top-order collapse with the dismissal of Jayawardene in the 13th over when he had the Sri Lanka captain caught at mid-on by Mitchell Starc.

Sri Lanka added just 20 runs for the next three wickets as Lahiru Thirimanne (1) became Doherty's second victim, offering a simple catch to David Hussey at mid-wicket.

Mathews attempted to re-ignite the Sri Lankan momentum with 67 off 122 balls with seven boundaries, but the run chase seemed all but over when he was caught by stand-in captain George Bailey off Mitchell Johnson (2-45).

Henriques dismissed Kusal Perera (7) in the next over and caught Rangana Herath (2) an over later off Clint McKay (2-51) to put the match out of reach. McKay claimed the final wicket of Lasith Malinga (2) with 15 balls to spare.

Hughes earlier smashed an unbeaten 138 after Sri Lanka won the toss and sent Australia in to bat.

Sri Lanka's bowling attack looked on target for another dominant performance when opener David Warner was bowled for 10 by Tillakaratne Dilshan in the sixth over.

Bailey — leading the side for the injured Michael Clarke — was caught and bowled by Thisara Perera to leave Australia at 97-3, before Hughes (138) combined with Hussey for a 98-run fourth-wicket partnership that ensured a competitive total.

Hughes hit 13 boundaries and a six in a commanding performance that was helped along by a little luck in the 21st over when he edged a Mathews delivery onto his stumps, but the bails remained intact.

Wicketkeeper Matthew Wade, sharing the opening duties with Warner, timed a quickfire 23 off 28 balls with four boundaries before being trapped lbw by Nuwan Kulasekara.

Hussey was run out with a direct throw by bowler Perera to break up his valuable partnership with Hughes, and Glenn Maxwell added just 9 before being caught by Thirimanne at extra-cover off Malinga.

Sri Lanka's bowling was tidy more than penetrating, with Dilshan returning best figures of 1-22.





Dawn of peace influences airline to resume flights

Alpha begins countdown for Korean Air...

January 23, 2013, 9:38 pm

By Harischandra Gunaratna

The Chairman Finco Group Sarath Weerasooria recently expressed confidence that the resumption of Korean Air passenger flights to Colombo would be a great success and added that the company was aggressively promoting Sri Lanka as a leading tourist destination in South Asia among the Korean holidaymakers.

Addressing a news conference Weerasooria said that 25 percent of the Korean population travel overseas for leisure and his company will tap this market.

"Dawn of peace to the country after a 30 year civil strife and the burgeoning tourism industry greatly influenced the airline to resume operations to Sri Lanka," he pointed out.

Alpha Tours, a subsidiary of Finco Group and the General Sales Agent for Korean Air for long period are also planning to tap the Korean honeymooners.

Priyantha Mendis, Director, Alpha Tours said "A large number of honeymooners visit the Maldives to which destination Korean Air already flies and the company plans to woo this market to visit Sri Lanka as we have lot more to offer other than sandy beaches."

The airline will operate three flights a week via Male resuming on March 9th.

Alpha tours invited travel agents for a friendly meeting and Mendis said that the former were very enthusiastic in aggressively promoting the airline among their business and leisure clients and expressed confidence of a successful operation.





Bowser driver masters fuel robbery

January 29, 2013, 10:16 pm

By Madura Ranwala

An owner of a filling station at Wariyagoda in Alawwa, who allegedly purchased 13,200 litres of fuel, valued at Rs. 1,080,000, belonging to another fuel station in Horawapathana, from a crooked bowser driver, was remanded till February 8, when he was produced before the Wariyapola Magistrate yesterday.

According to informed sources, the driver, after selling the fuel, had abandoned the bowser at Nawinna in Kurunegala and had then been attempting to leave the country. The Wariyapola police had obtained a warrant to arrest the main suspect, but he has used every trick in the book to evade arrest so far. He too is a resident of Alawwa.

Police spokesman SSP Prishantha Jayakody told The Island that a driver, who transported fuel to a filling station at Horawapathana, in a bowser belonging to the aforesaid filling station, from the Sapugaskanda Oil Refinery on January 19, had asked his helper to buy him a bottle of water from a shop on the way as he was thirsty. He had then sped off leaving the helper behind at around 7.30 p.m.

The Wariyapola police who investigated the incident, first traced the bowser to Nawinna junction in Kurunegala with the assistance of the Kurunegala police.





US$ 7.8mn Northern industrial push

January 23, 2013, 8:58 pm

* "Mulling four more Industrial Zones for North"-Rishad * Boat making, seafood among targeted sectors * 26 Industrial Zones now in operation across the country

In a new initiative to draw international investors to the surging Northern Province, four more new industrial zones are mulled by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. "The Ministry of Industry and Commerce being the key Ministry that facilitates regional industrial development has included to its 5 year plan the development of five new Regional Industrial Estates (zones) in the Northern Province. This initiative will support industrialisation of the Province and also create at least 5000 new employment opportunities for the people of north," announced Rishad Bathiudeen, Minister of Industry and Commerce.

Bathiudeen was addressing the inauguration event of the International Trade Fair (JITF) 2013 in Jaffna on 18 January. Already 26 Industrial Zones are operating in Sri Lanka under the Ministry of Industry and Commerce with more than 20000 direct employment. A new industrial zone has commenced in Mannar with two new garment factories being built. The other planned Northern industrial zones are in the Districts of Jaffna, Vavuniya, Kilinochchi, and Mullaitivu. All the newly planned Zones in the North will integrate only non-hazardous industries. Estimated, approximated cost of all five Northern zones is Rs one billion ($ 7.8 Mn).

"My Ministry has already started the first Northern Province Industrial Estate in Mannar in 2010, where two garment factories are already being built and nearing completion. The second northern industrial park will be established in Omanthai, to bring Vavuniya to our national industries. Our focus is to facilitate the thrust sectors such as the salt based industry, boat manufacturing, seafood processing and palmyrah based industries. I urge the Jaffna International Trade Fair participants to seriously consider making use of the support services and facilities, in the Regional Industrial Estates and establish future business and investment projects that can contribute towards the development of the region in a big way," Bathiudeen said.





Queen to abdicate

January 29, 2013, 10:04 pm

THE HAGUE, Netherlands (AP) — The Netherlands' Queen Beatrix announced Monday that she is ending her reign after 33 years and passing the crown to her eldest son, who has long been groomed to be king but who will have to work hard to match his mother's popularity.

The widely expected abdication comes at a time of debate over the future of the largely ceremonial Dutch monarchy, but also as calm has descended upon the Netherlands after a decade of turmoil that saw Beatrix act as the glue that held together an increasingly divided society.

"Responsibility for our country must now lie in the hands of a new generation," Beatrix, one of Europe's longest-serving monarchs, said in the simple, televised speech announcing her abdication.

The queen, who turns 75 in just a few days, said she will step down from the throne on April 30. That same day, her eldest son, Willem-Alexander, will be appointed king at an inauguration in Amsterdam. He will be the Netherlands' first king since Willem III died in 1890.

Willem-Alexander is a 45-year-old father of three young daughters, an International Olympic Committee member, a pilot and a water management expert.





