Sajith Premadasa MP was yet to put forward any clear proposal with regard to his group's demands pertaining to the UNP leadership, Joseph Michael Perera MP said yesterday.

Perera, who oversaw the reform process which culminated in the UNP adopting a new constitution, told The Island that the Sajth Premadasa group, which met him, John Ameratunga MP and Jayalath Jayawardena MP last week, had come up with various proposals, but nothing concrete.

"They first said that Sajith should be the leader of the UNP, while Ranil Wickremesinghe can continue as Opposition leader. Thereafter, they suggested that Karu Jayasuriya be made party leader. A few minutes later, they said that it would be better if the position of leader was kept vacant for the moment. So, it appears that they are not sure about what they really want."

Asked about media reports (not in The Island) that he, Ameratunga and Jayawardena were to meet UNP leader Ranil Wickremesinghe yesterday, over the leadership issue, Perera said that no such talks had taken place.

MP Perera said: "John, Jayalath and I, held a discussion among ourselves about the meeting with the Premadasa group. The more we talked about it, the more confused we became."

Meanwhile, the UNP's media spokesman Gayantha Karunathillake MP told a news conference in Colombo that people would know very soon who the "new" leader of the UNP would be, in keeping with the wishes of the party's rank and file.

"The UNP's first parliamentary group meeting for 2011 will be held tomorrow and after the General Secretary returns from abroad later this week a date will be set for the Working Committee to meet, in keeping with new constitutional provisions."

Asked if an interim Working Committee had been appointed with the expiry of the old committee on December 31, 2010, Karunathillake said that all the immediate past members had been included in the interim body.





SYDNEY (AP) - Usman Khawaja's initial eight balls in international cricket provided some of the rare flourishes Monday in the fifth Ashes Test before he was out for 37 on the last ball of a gloomy, rain-shortened opening day when Australia's batsmen struggled again to get on top of England.

With no chance of regaining the Ashes but hopeful of leveling the series, stand-in captain Michael Clarke won the toss and elected to bat despite overcast conditions tipped to favour the England seamers. After 59 overs and breaks for bad light and rain, the new-look Australian lineup was 134-4 when play was stopped.

Mike Hussey, Australia's leading batsman in the series, was unbeaten on 12.

All of the top order, with the exception of Clarke, got starts but failed to capitalize.

Tim Bresnan picked up the wickets of Shane Watson (45) and Clarke (4) and returned figures of 2-47 for England, while Chris Tremlett and spinner Graeme Swann took a wicket each.

Khawaja, the first Muslim to play Test cricket for Australia, got off the mark with a two and a pulled boundary from Tremlett on his first two deliveries - the first two after the lunch interval. He raced to 15 from eight balls but slowed his scoring rate as he settled in, eventually facing 95 balls in two hours. The 24-year-old left-hander's five boundaries contained a perfectly timed chip off behind square leg - immediately after he got an edge which just failed to carry to second slip - and a risky glance through the cordon.

Khawaja, the leading scorer in the domestic competition this season and on the fringe of Test selection for six months, comes into the international arena as the former top-ranked Australia casts wider than ever for replacements to fill the void created by the retirements of international veterans in recent seasons. He is the first batsman to debut at No. 3 since 1993, largely due to regular skipper Ricky Ponting's long lock on the position.

Khawaja said he was just concentrating on this Test and expected Ponting, whom he rated as Australia's best batsman behind the great Sir Donald Bradman, to come back at some stage.

"I had a ball out there. I just wanted to stay out there as long as I could," he said. "It was a good start. Got all the anxiousness out of my system."

He said the Test was delicately poised, with Australia still in a good position if they could produce a big partnership in the second morning.

Bresnan said the English attack worked brilliantly in conditions that were more suited to them.

"We bowled well, put them under a lot of pressure ... definitely our day," he said. "We certainly bowled well in the first session with the new ball and made them play in a way where they are not used to playing, so we're happy with that.

"Although they played really well, I thought we were unlucky not to have them a few more down."

Bresnan said England had no intention of taking it easy despite securing the Ashes last week, with the targets of winning their first Test series in Australia since 1987 and winning back-to-back Tests in Australia for the first time since 1978-79 firmly in their sights.

"We're definitely up for this game," he said. "We obviously celebrated quite well after Melbourne, but we still have a job to do and we still want to win this game."

Clarke, in his first Test as Australia captain after Ponting was sidelined with a broken finger, is desperate to level the series at 2-2 in the last Test and urged his lineup to show some old-school fight after a capitulation in Melbourne last week allowed England to take a 2-1 series lead - enough to ensure it retained the Ashes.

Openers Phil Hughes and Watson played with discipline and uncharacteristic restraint, leaving as many balls as they played and nudging the score along to 55 in 29 overs before Tremlett ended the stand with the last ball before lunch.

The England attack tied down the Australians for the entire first session, and although Tremlett troubled both openers, the bowlers weren't rewarded until the lanky paceman tempted Hughes with a shorter ball and the 22-year-old left-hander feathered a head-height catch to Paul Collingwood at third slip.

Watson batted for three hours, facing 127 balls, before edging a straightforward catch to England captain Andrew Strauss at first slip off Bresnan to make the total 105 for two. All his five boundaries came after lunch in a 50-run second-wicket stand with Khawaja.

The second session was played in dull, artificial light and featured an eight-minute suspension due to the overcast conditions, with storms threatening until tea was taken early due to rain.

More than an hour of play was lost before the evening session resumed. Clarke failed to add to his pre-interval score before guiding an attempted cut straight to Jimmy Anderson at gully with the total at 113.

Khawaja and Hussey added 21 in good time before the rookie No. 3 attempted to sweep Swann in the first over of the spinner's new spell and miscued a catch to Trott at square-leg. Rain started tumbling immediately and players left the field for the day.





SLASSCOM plays a catalyst role with aggressive plans to capitalize the opportunities for Sri Lanka in 2011. The IT and BPO industry is projected to grow by 26 percent with export earnings estimated at US$ 390 million for 2010. Mass employment generation with more foreign direct income is being targeted by the national IT/ BPO chamber. Sri Lanka plans on building a niche focus on a few core areas in the IT and BPO industriesglobally to differentiate the countries offerings with other outsourcing destinations and with a vision to make the IT/ BPO industry the number one export earner for the country. SLASSCOM elected its third Board and General Council consisting of key industry leaders and decision makers to drive this vision for 2011.





January 03, 2011, London: Many Hotmail users had a New Year surprise when they found empty inboxes and missing folders as they logged in.

Several frantic users posted complaints against Email giant MSN claiming that their emails have been deleted from their accounts.

It is still unclear whether the problem lies with Microsoft, which owns MSN, or whether it is the work of hackers, the Daily Mail reported.

A number of users complain that all of their messages have disappeared while others said the majority of the e-mail in their inboxes was sent to their deleted mail folders instead.

It is not known yet how many account holders have been affected.

Windows Live support technicians said in numerous threads that the Hotmail team is aware of the problem and working on a fix.

"At this point it appears to be a limited issue, and Microsoft is working with individual users who are impacted. We apologise for any inconvenience to our customers," Microsoft spokeswoman Catherine Brooker said.

She declined to disclose what caused the glitch.

The free Web-based e-mail service is the world's most used with about 360 million users.(PTI)





Work on Sri Lanka's first ever irrigation museum, to be established by the Ministry of lrrigation and Water Resources Management, will commemence this month. This is being done with a view to educate the public on the country's unique centuries-old irrigation technology and it's history.

The concept of this museum was the brain child of Minister Nimal Siripala de Silva and the project will be implemented in three stages, under the guidance of National Museums Department.

Minister de Silva said that Sri Lanka has an unique irrigation history dating back to about 2,500 years.

"You can't find the technology used in Sri Lanka's irrigation systems anywhere in the world. It's such unique and marvelous work by our forefathers" he said.

He said that the objective of setting up the museum is to provide information on the history of irrigation technology, it's impact on civilization, history of the Mahaweli programme and it's future history of irrigation department.

The museum will specially cater to the researchers, tourists and students and it will also be open to the general public.

But, he lamented that most Sri Lankans are not really aware of this irrigation history and it's importance to the livelihood of the people.

He also said even the political leaders do not have sufficent knowledge on the country's irrigation technology and it's history which had amazed the people across the world,"

"We will be taking steps to educate them on this technology and seminars will be organised for school children to improve their knowledge on this subject."

Already, irrigation technology has been included as a subject in the school curriculam.

Minister de Silva made these observations at a ceremony held at the Mahaweli Authority to discuss on the future plans on the proposed museum.





The wooden bridge named "Kole Atta Palama" across Kuda Oya connecting Epaladeniya and Galdeniya built more than one and a half decades ago has decayed and is in a dilapidated condition. The villagers risk their life and limb when using the bridge as some of its wooden planks are missing.

Politicians of all hues made promises to repair the bridge and they conveniently forgot it after elections A.N.Dayaratne, a villager, said. The former Highways Minister T. B. Ekanayake during the last general election had promised to build a new bridge. On his orders, metal and some other materials had been brought and piled up near the bridge but after the election, the project had been shelved, A. M. Nishantha Adhikari, a villager said.

"We feel the gravity of it because we are the people who use the bridge and seriously feel the need for a new bridge," he said.

It's a nightmare for cyclists and motorcyclists riding across this bridge because the pieces of metal damage their tyres several of them have had narrow escapes, according to K. K. Navaratne.

The talk about a new bridge was nothing and it was only a ploy to deceive the voters, he further said. A huge billboard erected at the Boyawalana Junction prior to the election with photographs of politicians had announced a project, which never materialized, he added. "Now we have to travel a distance of 12-13 kilometers to reach Alawwa but if a new bridge is built the distance will be shortened to about six kilometers, Navaratne said.

A few years back a pedestrian had fallen into the river and suffered serious leg injury and another person died. Since the commissioning of the bridge, around 400-500 motorcycles have started using it daily, he said.

The residents in the area urge the Alawwa Pradeshiya Sabha to repair the bridge without delay.





The country's national professional Accounting body, the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (ICASL), will be the Gold sponsor at EDEX 8th Expo 2011.

ICASL promotes business, finance and management studies in Sri Lanka, ensuring a high level of professional competence among the membership and students.

ICASL is the largest tertiary education establishment in the country, outside the university system with a student base of over 35,000. Its membership constitutes over 4,200 professional Accountants located here and globally. ICASL is the national premier accounting body and it contributes significantly to the country's national development in the accounting profession. ICASL's promotion of high standards in Accounting makes it mandatory for all companies listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange in Sri Lanka, to ensure compliance.

"Accountants play a major role in most of the large companies in Sri Lanka. Approximately 70 percent from the top 50 companies listed in the Colombo Stock Exchange has at least one member from the ICASL in their Board. Chartered Accountants are identified as upholding standards in the public interest, driving excellence and influencing decision makers in policy formulation and delivery", opines, Mr. Sujeewa Mudalige, President, ICASL.

"We want to attract the best students from the Commerce and non-Commerce streams. Our qualification attracts the best and the brightest, and must continue to do so. Next year alone we will be registering almost 10,000 new students. The way the accountancy profession is perceived is important; because it is vital we go on recruiting into our Institute the very high calibre of students. We have a lot to offer in terms of professional careers to the brightest students of this country. Accountancy is a global profession and we have a 'global outlook'. We think EDEX is an excellent medium to communicate our message to educate students in business, finance and management," he stated.

"The basics of business and ethical values are instilled in our students from the very beginning by virtue of our requirement for practically based training to become a member. It gives students a clear idea of what it means to be a Chartered Accountant and the chance to learn first-hand the ethical application of business practices in the training environment," he added.

"There is an increase in employment opportunities for Chartered Accountants in all sectors of the economy. Chartered Accountants are in high demand right now and play a pivotal role in shaping the nation's economic outlook. ICASL qualified accountants play a major role in some of the leading banking and insurance companies in the world," he concluded.

EDEX Chairman Kamal Abeysinghe acknowledging the sponsorship said, "In terms of upward social mobility, the future outlook of well-qualified Chartered Accountants seems very bright as a host of new opportunities are emerging for them in the horizon even globally. We are indeed very happy to welcome ICASL which has one of the largest student memberships in Sri Lanka as the 'Gold sponsor' of EDEX 8th Expo 2011."

The 8th EDEX Expo will be held on 22, 23 and 24 January 2011 at the BMICH Colombo and on 26 and 27 at the Kandy City Centre respectively. Further details of the Expo can be obtained from the EDEX Secretariat. Tel: 3091086 & 5521497. Email info@edex.lk. Website www.edex.lk





The 135th International convention of the Theosophical society was held from 24th to 31st of December 2010 at Adyar in India.

I as a member of this society got the opportunity to participate in this convention. As far as Theosophical society is concerned, it is a world organisation which was formed in USA in 1875. Its Head quarters are established in Adyar in India. It has spread far and wide over the world. The members of all religions have become members of it without surrendering the special dogmas, teachings and beliefs of their respective faiths. Every member has an equal right to follow any school of thought but has no right to force the choice on any other.

Ven.Olande Ananda from Pagoda Meditation centre delivered his lecture on the topic Buddhism: a religion, philosophy or a way of life. He explained how all these three aspects; religion philosophy and a way of life are combined in Buddhism. The Buddhism has emphasised the fact that anything should not be accepted on mere blind faith but to scrutinise and examine everything for oneself and only after being convinced of its truth and goodness to accept the Teachings, the Dhamma. The universal significance of the Dhamma lies in this teaching according to Kalama Sutta.

A retinue of 500 Sakya ladies who got their ordination introduced the female monks order. This can be considered as the origin of the women's liberation in the world according to Ven. Ananda. Buddhism and theosophy agree with each other at the point of the freedom of thought which is an essential feature as far as individual freedom is concerned according to my opinion.The unique feature in the Buddhist doctrine is that, not even a single drop of blood was shed in the spread of Buddhism.

Ven.Olande Ananda's epoch making speech made an indelible mark in the minds of the delegates who arrived in India from about 52 countries in the world. We, as Sri Lankans, have to be proud of this foreign Buddhist monk who makes every effort to send the message of Buddhism to the world.





The Junior National Selectors have picked a 16-member Sri Lanka Under-19 team headed by former Royal College skipper Bhanuka Rajapaksha who will meet England Under-19 in two Youth Tests and five Youth ODIs from mid January, according to Sports Ministry sources.

The team captained by Rajapaksha includes several players who toured England last year and several players who are eligible to play next year's Youth World Cup.

Rajapaksha was a key batsman in the Under-19 team for the last Youth World Cup and was also in the team's tour of England last year.

St. Sebastian's paceman Sanitha de Mel, Richmond opener Yasodha Lanka, St. Peter's speedster Lahiru Jayaratne, St. Anthony's spinner Saranga Rajaguru (formerly Nugawela Central) and current Royal College captain Ramith Rambukwella are the players who have been retained from the team that toured England last year along with Rajapaksha.

Lumbini spinner Maduka Liyanapathiranage (formerly President's College) who was a part of the last Youth World Cup has also been included in the team.

Shehan Jayasuriya of Prince of Wales, Mahinda skipper Kaushalya Gajasinghe, Richmond captain Dananjaya de Silva and St. Joseph's skipper Chathuranga Kumara, former Maris Stella College player Angelo Jayasinghe, Mahanama's Duleeka Thissakuttige and Anandian Ruwinda Shamen are the all-rounders making into the side.

Josephian spinner Supeshala Jayathilaka has also secured a place each in the squad.





Premier Limited Over Tournament Dilshan stars in Tamil Union win

January 3, 2011, 12:00 pm

by Roshen Steelman

Opening batsman Tillekeratne Dilshan hammered an unbeaten 133 to help Tamil Union beat Lankan CC by nine wickets in a Premier Limited Over Tournament match played at P. Sara Oval yesterday. After restricting Lankan CC for 230, Dilshan helped the hosts to win in the 28th over as they scored at an alarming 8:39 runs an over.

Dilshan who shifted to Tamil Union from Bloomfield before this season commenced was in menacing form hammering 133 in just 99 balls with 21 fours and three sixes. The Sri Lankan opener was involved in a 174 run stand for the first wicket with Gihan Rupasinghe, who hit 85 in 60 balls with seven fours and four sixes.

So good was Dilshan's forms that in the unbroken second wicket stand of 61 runs, Ashan Priyanjana contributed with just seven runs.

Sinhalese Sports Club cruised to a comfortable seven wicket win in their encounter against Saracens SC at their home ground in another encounter. Saracens made 165 for nine in their 50 overs and SSC reached the target with 24 overs to spare as Tharanga Paranavithana and Dimuth Karunaratne hit half-centuries.





Prime Minister briefs prelates on LG polls

Representatives never meet people after their election – Theras

January 3, 2011, 10:21 pm

by Cyril Wimalasurendre

Kandy – Prime Minister D. M. Jayaratne, calling on the Mahanayake Theras of the Malwatta and Asgiriya Chapters on Sunday, said that the Local Government Amendment Bill would be presented in Parliament on Jan. 04.

He said that the Opposition would get an opportunity to study amendment in detail and make constructive suggestions in Parliament.

The elections would be held under the existing PR system since the new laws would not be ready before the elections, the Prime Minister told the Maha Nayake Theras.

Responding to a statement by the Mahanayake Theras of Malwatte Tibbatuwawe Sri Siddhartha Sumangala Thera, Prime Minister Jayaratne said that representatives elected under the existing electoral system were not responsible for the people in a particular area.

The Mahanayake Theras said that the elected members never returned to meet the people who voted for him or her.

Most Ven. Digamma Sri Buddharakkitha Mahanayake Thero of Asgiriya conferred blessings on President Mahinda Rajapaksa, his government and PM Jayaratne.

The PM earlier paid homage to the Sacred Tooth Relic at the Sri Dalada Maligawa.





Treasury Secretary Dr. P. B. Jayasundera said the entry of Shangri La was an endorsement of the country's economic prospects and it would pave the way for other much needed foreign direct investments.

"The entry of Shangri La global network is an endorsement of the economic prospects that Sri Lanka has gained since the end of the conflict and accelerating long term infrastructure development, through the creation of stable economic environment while promoting a rural-centric development strategy. It also marks the beginning of a new journey of a high level of foreign direct investment that Sri Lanka needs in order to accelerate an economic growth in excess of 8 percent and position the country as an emerging middle income country in Asia," Treasury Secretary Dr. Jayasundera said.









Senior Minister Ratnasiri Wickramanayaka represented Sri Lanka at the ceremonial inauguration of the new President of Brazil Ms Dilmah Rouseff.

He was nominated by President Mahinda Rajapaksa as his Special Envoy to represent Sri Lanka.

Dilmah Rouseff was sworn in as President in a colourful ceremony in Brasilia on January 1.

A large crowd of enthusiastic Brazilians were present to witness the event despite inclement weather.

Dilmah Rouseff is the first female President of Brazil which has emerged as an economic and political power house. With huge natural resources including newly discovered off shore oil reserves and sound economic management Brazil is expected to be among the first five major economies in the world within this decade. Brazil is playing an important role in the global economic scene as a leading member of the Group of 20.

Latin America was well represented at the ceremony with the presence of presidents of Argentina, Chille, Guatemala, Venezuela and Uruguay among other South American leaders. Other notable dignitaries present were the Crown Prince of Spain. Prime Minister of South Korea, former Prime Minister of Japan and the US Secretary of State.

During the ceremony the Minister was able to briefly exchange views with Secretary of State Hilary Clinton.

Wickramanayaka will be visiting Rio which is the former capital of Brazil where there is a Theravada Buddhist Temple before returning to Sri Lanka.





Under-19 School Cricket :Zahira in rare win over Kingswood

January 4, 2011, 8:09 am

by Reemus Fernando

Zahira College scored a rare eight wicket victory over Kingswood College as they chased a paltry target of 20 runs for the loss of two wickets after restricting the latter to 155 runs in the second innings in the Inter-School Under-19 two-day tournament match which ended with many overs to spare at Maradana yesterday.

Zahira who had been placed lowly in their group last season earned the rare honour of beating Kingswood in what turned out to be their second tournament match this season. After scoring a first innings tie in their first tournament match against Kalutara Vidyalaya they scored the morale boosting win over Kingswood to have better prospects in the remainder of the tourney. The two teams do not meet in traditional matches.

Forced to follow on after being dismissed for a paltry 56 runs in the first innings, a captain's knock of 72 runs from Vishwa Deemantha (72n.o in 182 balls), who put on a third wicket partnership of 96 runs with Kasun Vidura, helped Joseph Vaz College avert a possible outright defeat against Dharmaraja College, Kandy in their tournament encounter which ended at Albert F. Peiris Ground, Wennappuwa yesterday.

A second wicket partnership of 111 runs between skipper Thusith Silva (72 in 151 balls 5x4s) and Chamod Wickramasinghe helped D.S. Senanayake College post 255 for four wickets at close after being forced to follow on in their Under-19 match against Thurstan College which ended in a first innings victory to the latter at Reid Avenue yesterday.





Minister of Cooperatives and Internal Trade Johnston Fernando said that the country will not face any shortages of rice due to bumper harvests in the Maha and Yala seasons which have been stored as a buffer stock in case of any emergency.

He told The Island that he will not tolerate unscrupulous traders 'jacking up' prices indiscriminately, and if this occurs he will give directives to mill the stored paddy and release stocks to the market. He also revealed that Sri Lanka could even export quality rice.

However; agricultural experts are of the opinion that five million tons of paddy was needed by 2020 and that the country needs to increase its production taking into consideration the population growth. They have targeted a 40 per cent increase in production in the dry zone and 50 per cent increase in the wet zone by 2020.

Minister Fernando has also appointed two committees to study the price fluctuations of consumer items, both in the international and local markets. One is headed by the Ministry's Media Secretary Nipun Ekanayake and other by the Consumer Affairs Authority (CAA).

He said that the prices of chicken, eggs and big onions would be further reduced with imports from India (chicken and eggs) and Pakistan (big onions), but he has no control over vegetable prices which have increased due to the recent heavy rains.

Fernando said that this year he will further increase the Lanka Sathosa, Coop City and Mini Coop City outlets where the prices of every consumer item will be 15 to 20 percent cheaper than in the open markets.

He said that special teams will be sent to Economic Centres for inspection purposes and action will be taken against unscrupulous traders and trading practices.

Fernando said that action will also be taken to take back stalls that have been sub-let, like that what happened at the Dambulla Economic Centre on Sunday (January 2).

The Minister further revealed that the government has written off nearly Rs. 2 billion in loans in the co-operative sector where they still owe the government another Rs. 1,800 million, which will also be written off.









The Kaduwela Magistrate and Acting District Judge Jayaki De Alwis last week severely warned and fined two men who were found guilty of possessing illicit cigarettes. Upul Padma Harsha Perera who pleaded guilty to having 200 contraband cigarettes in his possession was fined Rs 200,000 while Kaluwage Gamini Wijesinghe who pleaded guilty to having 19 contraband cigarettes was fined Rs 19,000.





Parliamentarian and World Cup winning captain Arjuna Ranatunga made a request from President Mahinda Rajapakse and the government to postpone the Local Council Elections which is scheduled to be held in March to take the best advantage in promoting the country during the ICC Cricket World Cup that gets underway on the 19th of February. Addressing a media briefing in Nugegoda yesterday, Ranatunga also requested Sports Minister Mahindananda Aluthgamage to probe corruption charges against some of the sports bodies.

"Normally in Sri Lanka we can see conflicts between political parties during an election and sometimes even members from the same party end up fighting. When these things happen during the Cricket World Cup it will not carry a good message to the international public," Ranatunga said.

"The World Cup will be a good opportunity for the government to improve the Sri Lankan image globally after the war has ended. Holding the Local Council Election during the World Cup will not help this cause," the World Cup winning captain added.

Ranatunga also hit out at some sports bodies asking the Sports Minister to probe allegations against them.

He singled out the Sports Ministry, Cricket Interim Committee and the National Olympic Committee as some of the corrupt sports bodies. During the recent budget debate, Minister Aluthgamage had requested to bring to his notice if there were sports bodies that were corrupt.

Incidentally, Ranatunga's younger brother Nishantha is the Secretary of the Cricket Interim Committee and is under the scanner for several dubious activities including claiming Rs. 3 million as travel allowances.

Ranatunga's former team mate D.S. de Silva is the Chairman of the Cricket Interim Committee and he appointed two of his two nephews to oversee the functions of the World Cup for salaries of Rs. 550,000 and Rs. 275,000.

All in all, the two nephews of the Chairman are the highest paid employees at Sri Lanka Cricket.

"From the day I went to Parliament I have been informing all the Sports Ministers about wrongdoings but none of them managed to take necessary action and I believe Minister Altuthgamage is a capable person to take necessary action against these elements," Ranatunga added.

At the same time he added that taking drastic action against the Cricket Interim Committee right now would hamper Sri Lanka's preparations for the World Cup and requested the Minister to wait till the World Cup is over to clean up the mess.

In a recent talk show in India that comprised former captains Imran Khan, Viv Ricards and Kapil Dev, Ranatunga said that Sri Lanka will go onto win the World Cup while the other three Test captains tipped India to triumph.





The CID yesterday arrested two of the four suspects wanted in connection with an ATM scam running into over Rs. 14 million, police said

The suspects had fixed an advanced electronic devices which was able to copy customer information from unsuspecting ATM users and then passed on this information to their accomplices in Italy who in turn created forged credit cards and used the information they obtained from he ATM user in Sri Lanka to withdraw money from those accounts.

Two other suspects believed to be of Romanians are at large. The CID is continuing with investigations, police said.









One of the latest reports by BBC at BBC.SINHALA.com (http://www.bbc.co.uk/sinhala/news/story/2010/12/101231_jaffna_abductions.shtml) is entitled Fear still prevails in Jaffna and goes on to mention the killing of a Hindu priest and an education official, as if the rest of the country is violence-free. (Incidentally, do the commas enclosing a section of the title inadvertently suggest the reality is something different?)

A few days prior to this, there was the report, Tamil tigers beg for mercy or trial. Oh! Poor innocents begging for mercy! And, BBC is shedding its tears for a group whose members massacred or blasted to smithereens thousands of innocent women, babies, schoolchildren, members of the clergy and devotees at places of worship.

The BBC website during the period from December 15 to December 31 has its pages under the titles Defence Secretary Liam Fox postpones Sri Lanka trip, Wikileaks cables suggest Sri Lanka 'human right abuses', Sri Lanka ends ban on UN war crimes probe team, Sri Lanka takes on nationwide coconut crisis, Sri Lanka releases 100 Tamil Tiger rebels, Sri Lanka's last tsunami orphans, Sri Lanka Tamil national anthem row re-ignites, Sri Lanka swine flu outbreak kills 22, Sri Lanka commemorates its Chekhov connection, and Sri Lanka bans BBC again from war inquiry panel. Except for one or two, all these headings are to do with stories depicting a negative view of Sri Lanka may suggest the country is a place from which one should keep away.

Just two days back, there was the (pleasantly) surprising news of the US ambassador saying, "the Sri Lankan government has every right to be proud of its progress in resettlement" at a function at which USAID donations were handed over, which was also attended by the Country Representative of the World Food Programme. When someone who has been quite critical of Sri Lanka shows a change of stance and is ready to admit positive developments pertaining to IDPs, the BBC correspondent's blinkers unfortunately do not let him see such an event as newsworthy. And, this is after the very same BBC said on December 02, "A US envoy believed the president of Sri Lanka bore responsibility for an alleged 2009 massacre of Tamils" quoting Wikileaks under the heading, Wikileaks: Sri Lanka's Rajapaksa blamed for killings.

Projecting a negative image of Sri Lanka, and especially of the North, is a calculated move to undercut the surge in tourism to the country and to divert the potential investors away from, according to Economic Times, the best performing Stock Market in Asia in 2010.

Yet, the BBC laments, Sri Lanka bans BBC again from war inquiry panel on December 30. International correspondents who do not give a balanced view of the situation in the country deserve not only to be banned, but also to be shown the door for good.





Under-19 School Cricket Zahira in rare win over Kingswood

January 3, 2011, 10:31 pm

by Reemus Fernando

Zahira College scored a rare eight wicket victory over Kingswood College as they chased a paltry target of 20 runs for the loss of two wickets after restricting the latter to 155 runs in the second innings in the Inter-School Under-19 two-day tournament match which ended with many overs to spare at Maradana yesterday.

Zahira who had been placed lowly in their group last season earned the rare honour of beating Kingswood in what turned out to be their second tournament match this season. After scoring a first innings tie in their first tournament match against Kalutara Vidyalaya they scored the morale boosting win over Kingswood to have better prospects in the remainder of the tourney. The two teams do not meet in traditional matches.

Forced to follow on after being dismissed for a paltry 56 runs in the first innings, a captain's knock of 72 runs from Vishwa Deemantha (72n.o in 182 balls), who put on a third wicket partnership of 96 runs with Kasun Vidura, helped Joseph Vaz College avert a possible outright defeat against Dharmaraja College, Kandy in their tournament encounter which ended at Albert F. Peiris Ground, Wennappuwa yesterday.

A second wicket partnership of 111 runs between skipper Thusith Silva (72 in 151 balls 5x4s) and Chamod Wickramasinghe helped D.S. Senanayake College post 255 for four wickets at close after being forced to follow on in their Under-19 match against Thurstan College which ended in a first innings victory to the latter at Reid Avenue yesterday.





When policymakers forecast 6-7 per cent GDP growth in the years to come, a top banker believes Bangladesh has the potential to grow at a much higher pace.

The country can break into double-digit growth in three years if the government substantially improves the condition of energy and physical infrastructure, says Ali Reza Iftekhar, managing director of Eastern Bank Ltd (EBL).

He says the construction of Padma Bridge and Dhaka-Chittagong four-lane road would add 0.5 percentage point and 0.4 percentage point respectively to GDP (gross domestic product). Full-swing activities in the manufacturing sector, now stagnant due to energy crisis, can increase GDP by 2 percentage points.

He sees no reason why Bangladesh cannot achieve a double-digit growth rate if China and India can do it with a huge population.

"We must salute the private sector. They are doing excellent despite all the limitations," Iftekhar told The Daily Star in an interview.

Iftekhar, 50, has spent half of his life in the banking industry. He talked on many issues such as industrialisation, trends in banking business, banks' over-exposure to stockmarket, and retail banking.

The banker also explained how EBL has transformed into a strong brand value. EBL offers a wide range of depository, loan and card products to cater virtually for every customer segment. The bank got the biggest recognition when national flag carrier Biman Bangladesh Airlines mandated pre-delivery purchase deal to it for two Boeing at US$118 million.

Iftekhar says the banking business has severely been hurt because of a declining investment demand from the manufacturing sector. The situation had forced the banks to go to the capital market as an alternative to making money. The banks have also tried to open new windows of business, including strengthening retail and Islamic banking.

The banker says everything was all right for the banks until December last year, when inter-bank call money market broke all records following the rise in cash reserve requirement (CRR) and statutory liquidity ratio (SLR) by the central bank.

The EBL boss points out that the banks are now opening import letters of credit (LCs) for power equipment, and there is no business with textile, chemical and other manufacturing industries.

"There must be a quick decision on coal policy and its extraction," he says.

There has not been any significant improvement in gas exploration for many years. No new industry was given gas connection. The existing industries are running on low pressure of gas.

Considering the overall situation, Iftekhar fears that the banks' bad debt might rise in the just concluded year because of the inability of the businesses to repay the loans.

Although the banks made hefty profits from their stockmarket operation last year, he says it is not sustainable.

The highly exposed banks earned more than 40 per cent of their total revenue from stockmarket business, while it was 18-21 per cent for the moderately exposed banks, according to Iftekhar.

"This was a windfall gain and is not sustainable," says the banker. "Too much dependence on the stockmarket is not healthy for a bank."

The banker has stressed the need to diversify business. Already many banks have become involved with business like leasing, brokerage and merchant banking.

Iftekhar says getting involved with the insurance business may be another opportunity for the banks.

"Why should not I use my quality human resources in other businesses, like insurance," he says. EBL has decided to buy a stake in a life insurance company.

According to him, SME (small and medium enterprise) and retail banking will increase gradually.

EBL has a good reputation for its innovative products and services. During the last five years, the bank has introduced 12 new-to-Bangladesh financial products and services. EBL Matribhumi (the bundle product for the expatriate Bangladeshis), insurance-covered monthly savings scheme, VISA corporate cards, remittance card and mobile-based remittance solution are just a few of those. - ANN





Sri Lanka's currency markets opened the year with a dull day of trading with the dollar closing flat at Rs. 110.92/95 against the rupee. Excess rupee liquidity amounted to Rs. 121.17 billion last evening (3).

The Central Bank of Sri Lanka will today (4) announce the Road Map: Monetary and Financial Sector Policies for 2011 and Beyond.

Dealers said the Central Bank's presentation today will be closely watched to gauge inflation expectations and exchange rate policy.

The dollar weakened 3 percent against the rupee in 2010 and dealers said the rupee could strengthen further to around Rs. 109.5 against the greenback this year.

Prices have been rising over the past few months and the Central Bank said it would focus on low inflation this year.





Rajan Philips' feature article entitled, The Trilingual Master Plan and Monolingual National Anthem Muddle published on the editorial page of yesterday's Sunday Island (January 2, 2011) refers to another article that appeared in The Island of 3rd December under the title given at the top. Mr Philips refers to this article as having been "written by the Administrator, Sri Lanka Foundation'". This must be an unintended misrepresentation of the authorship of the article, because I wrote it for my weekly column Lateral Commentaries, which is usually carried in the paper on Fridays. That week, my column was published on page 11 and continued on page 13. And I am not the 'Administrator (Sri Lanka Foundation)'. I hold no such post. I am just a columnist for The Island. Frankly, I don't even know that the said post exists.





* Its CEO says island can be prime global destination* 500-key luxury hotel on US$ 125mn defence property to be completed by 2014* 300-room Hambantota city resort to open in 2013

Hong Kong based Shangri La Asia Limited yesterday (3)issued an official announcement of the purchase of six acres of government land facing the Galle Face green promenade, a prominent landmark in Colombo, Sri Lanka.

"The development will be a multi-use complex with high-end retailing, deluxe apartments and 500-key luxury hotel to open early 2014. The purchase marks the entry of the hotel group in Sri Lanka, often referred to as the 'Pearl of the Indian ocean'," the hotel group said in a statement.

As reported last week in The Island Financial Review, the outright purchase was concluded for US$ 125 million, and the property is to be developed into the country's only 7-star hotel. The land belonged to the Ministry of Defence.

Shangri La is also planning a second property, a 300-key city resort on approximately 100 acres of land in Hambantota, on the southern coast of Sri Lanka to open in 2013.

"Sri Lanka is a country of unsurpassed natural beauty, rich in cultural heritage and above all, it is well recognised for its warm and hospitable population," said Greg Dogan, President and CEO of Shangri La International Hotel Management Ltd.

"The local government is fully committed to rebuilding the economy following the end of three decades of conflict and we believe Shangri La will be able to assist in positioning the country as a prime global tourist destination. Both Shangri La hotels strategically fit in the group's ongoing expansion plans to link the Indian sub-continent and our South East Asia developments," he said.

Shangri La manages 70 hotels with a room inventory of over 30,000.

The group has a substantial development pipeline with upcoming projects in Austria, Canada, mainland China, India, Macau, Malaysia, Philippines, Mongolia, Russia, Qatar, Turkey and United Kingdom.





With the launch of 'Mobitel Double Bonanza', Mobitel now extends its SMART Recharge Bonanza scheme to the Post-Paid community. Stemming from the success o the SMART

Recharge Bonanza or Pre Paid customers, the scheme has now been opened to Post

Paid &Broadband customers including Pre Paid customers o the Mobitel family until December 2011.

The 'SMART Recharge Bonanza' scheme bears testimony to Mobitel's commitment in serving their valued customers. The competition since its launch in October 2009 has journeyed across the country to deliver 'Suzuki Maruti Alto Sportz' cars to the lucky winners, empowering the lives of many, the draw also offers its customers laptops and high speed internet dongles keeping in line with its vision of 'leading Sri Lanka towards a knowledge rich society'.

Mobitel Double Bonanza offers 24 Suzuki Maruti Alto K10 cars which can be won monthly and 105 Asus Laptops with 3.5G high speed internet dongles to be won weekly throughout 2011.

Here is how the competition works: For every accumulated Rs.200/-in recharge or reload value SMART Pre Paid customers stands 1 draw chance at the Monthly draw. If the total recharge or reload is Rs.200 in a week a SMART Pre Paid user stands 1 draw chance at the Weekly draw.

For every Rs.200/-in monthly bill value Upahara, Broadband and all Post Paid customers stand a chance to win a car every month and laptops with 3.5G dongles. However, in order to get qualified or the draw monthly bills o the Post Paid customers need to be settled in full on or be ore the payment due date.

Customers will be able to find out their winning chances by dialling #151#.However, in order to quality or the competition, the Mobitel number has to be registered in compliance with the Mobitel subscriber registration policy. Registration status can be checked by dialling #132#.

Winners will be notified by Mobitel via Mobitel customer care hotline number 071 27 55 777 and in writing via post. Mobitel will not charge any additional fees when presenting prizes to the winner.

Commenting on the occasion Suren J. Amarasekera CEO o Sri Lanka Telecom Mobitel stated "We hope to serve our customers better in all our endeavours, thus we introduced the 'Mobitel Double Bonanza' to both Pre Paid and Post Paid community at Mobitel. 'Care'has become a vital component o our corporate culture, and we place it at the heart o our business initiatives and at all customer touch points".





Two Biyagama FTZ garment factory workers were killed and two of their colleagues injured when the three-wheeler they were traveling in crashed into a speeding vehicle on the Weboda-Udupila Road early yesterday morning.

The deceased were aged 24 and 21. The foursome had boarded the three wheeler and urged the driver to speed up to enable them to catch a bus to their factory, the driver had told police.

The two workers, who sustained serious injuries, were admitted to the Gampaha hospital. The driver escaped with minor injuries.

All four workers were from Weboda East. The post mortem examinations on the deceased were to be conducted yesterday afternoon at the Ragama Teaching Hospital.





King size bed sales have overtaken ordinary doubles for the first time, as middle-class couples increasingly see their beds as "social spaces" rather than just places to sleep.

The 4ft 6 in wide double bed, once considered all that a married couple needed, is now almost consigned to history – or certainly to the spare room.

Figures from both Tesco and John Lewis suggest that for the first time more king size beds are being sold than double beds in Britain, with sales the larger five foot wide bed proving more popular.

The figures reflect a distinct shift, as households adapt to adults become heavier and taller than ever before, along with consumers wanting to spend money trying to recreate the effect of a luxury hotel in their own home.

John Lewis said its most popular bed was called the Esprit, a king sized bed, which was introduced in 2008.

That year the department store and supplier of beds to the middle classes sold 15 per cent fewer king-size bed than doubles. In 2010 the proportion has shifted dramatically, with the retailer selling 34 per cent more king-size than double beds.

Tesco said sales of king-size beds and super-king size beds, which are six foot wide, had increased by 45 per cent over the last year – a rate of increase which completely eclipses the growth in double beds.

Brian Lawrence, member of the British Institute of Interior design, said: "Fifty years ago, people's weight and height comfortably fitted a standard bed, whereas now they don't."

"Today, a bed is not just to sleep in, it's more. People want more room in their beds because they have become a social space. Even though bedrooms are getting smaller, the bed is now the main fashion focal point of the room, rather than, say, the dresser, as it used to be."

Interior designers also said many clients wanted to recreate the opulence of hotel suites inside their own homes and have a bed big enough to allow all the family to watch television in, or tap away on a laptop.

Katharine Pooley, an interior designer, said: "This trend is on the rise as it allows people to recreate the luxury of sleeping in a large hotel bed within their own home. As our lives get increasingly busy, the need for escapism and total relaxation becomes more and more important."

Tesco added that another reason, cited by customers, was that families wanted to buy a big enough bed to allow small children to climb into their parents' bed without waking the adults.

Over-sized beds are, in many ways, a return to the Tudor era, when bedrooms for royalty and the aristocracy were public spaces. The Great Bed of Ware, now in the Victoria & Albert Museum, was manufactured in about 1590 and is eleven feet wide.





On attacks on Indian fishermen allegedly by Lankan naval personnel, he said Rajapakse has drawn up various plans to put an end to such incidents.

Keelakarai (PTI. Jan 2): A Sri Lankan minister today said the country expected more help from India to develop the war-ravaged areas in northern Lanka, dominated by minority Tamils.

"The nation expects more help from India for developing the Tamil areas. A cordial atmosphere now prevails in relations between Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi, Indian Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh and Sri Lankan President Mahinda Rajapaksa. Tamils will once again develop and join the mainstream," Minister A. H. M. Fowzie said here.

"Sri Lanka will not act against India at the instigation of any country," he said without elaborating on the statement.

Fowzie claimed that absolute peace prevailed in Sri Lanka and that India had offered to build 50,000 houses for Tamils.

He was speaking at the marriage of a relative of Lankan Western Provincial governor Syed Alavi Mowlana.

Mowlana said the Sri Lankan government and Tamils had forgotten the past and are now looking to a good future.

"The past is past. Let what is going to happen be good," he said.

He said Singh and Rajapaksa shared a good understanding best reflected in the fact that the latter was implementing "various suggestions for the welfare and rehabilitation of Tamils," he said.

On attacks on Indian fishermen allegedly by Lankan naval personnel, he said Rajapakse has drawn up various plans to put an end to such incidents.

"As of now good relationship prevails between Indian and Sri Lankan governments as also Tamil Nadu and no force can split this unity," he said.

The proposed ferry service between India and Sri Lanka will further strengthen the bond between the two nations, the governor said.





Dr. Ranil De Silva along with the Dept of Anatomy, Faculty of Medical Sciences, University of Sri Jayewardenepura will be organizing a seminar on "Biotechnology Technique in neuroscience and drug discovery" on Monday, January 17, 2011 at the University of Sri Jayewardenepura to bring the Academics, Researchers and the Industry to work in close collaboration in the field of Biotechnology and drug discovery.

Prof. Ann Kato, Dept of Neuroscience, Faculty of Medicine, University of Geneva, Switzerland and Prof. Gabor Kato, formerly from the Dept. of Pharmacology, McGil University, Montreal, Canada & CEO of Neurotech, Geneva, Switzerland will be delivering talks on;1. Drug Discovery, How Modern Medicines are Discovered 2. Receptor Binding Techniques, 3. A Review of Neurodegenerative Diseases and their Treatments, 4. Demographic Changes and their Implications on Ageing Research.

Dr De Silva hopes that the seminar will be a another step in the development of biomedical science and drug discovery in Sri Lanka and bringing in closer dialog between Academics, Researchers, Students... from biomedical, biotechnology pharmaceutical Industry, Universities, Research Institutes and Industry. The event is sponsored by Astron Ltd





Turning off mobile phones, avoiding the internet and tuning out of the television and radio can leave people suffering from symptoms similar to those seen in drug addicts trying to go cold turkey, researchers have found.

The scientists asked volunteers to stay away from all emails, text messages, Facebook and Twitter updates for 24 hours. They found that the participants began to develop symptoms typically seen in smokers attempting to give up.

Some of those taking part said they felt like they were undergoing "cold turkey" to break a hard drug habit, while others said it felt like going on a diet. The condition is now being described as Information Deprivation Disorder.

Dr Roman Gerodimos, a lecturer in communication who led the UK section of the international study, said: "We were not just seeing psychological symptoms, but also physical symptoms."

The findings will fuel concerns raised by neurologists and psychologists about the impact that excessive use of the internet, computer games and social networking sites are having on the so-called "Net Generation" of teenagers and young adults.

In the experiment, called Unplugged, volunteers at 12 universities around the world - including 125 students Bournemouth University - spent 24 hours without access to computers, mobile phones, iPods, television, radio and even newspapers.

They were allowed to use landline telephones or read books.

Participants were asked to keep diaries about their experience. Entries in the diaries showed that many recorded feeling fidgety, anxious or isolated.

The research was led by the University of Maryland's International Centre for Media and the Public Agenda.

Dr Gerodimos, of Bournemouth University, said: "The extent to which we are using some of this modern technology and new media is changing us.

"Participants described feeling fidgety and kept reaching for their mobile phones even when they weren't there.

"There were also some good effects as people developed coping mechanisms they went out for walks and visited friends rather than sitting in front of a computer.

"What was amazing for us was how dependent people now are on their technology. People often don't own watches or alarm clocks because they rely upon their mobile phones to wake themselves up."

While most participants in the study struggled without their mobile phones and felt they were missing out by not using Facebook, it was abstinence from music that caused them the most difficulty, Dr Gerodimos said.

"A lot of them said they found the silence quite uncomfortable and awkward," he said. "But as they got used to it they began to notice more things around them like birds singing or hearing what their neighbours were doing.

"In their reflections on what they had been through, people freely admitted that they were experiencing symptoms of withdrawal. The students likened the experience to going on a diet, giving up smoking and going cold turkey. The words addiction kept recurring.

"Some people didn't find it hard, while a minority hated it. The majority struggled at first, experiencing these symptoms, before they developed coping mechanisms that helped to distract them.

"If we become a bit more aware how we are using this technology, it might help us to control the effect it has on us. Perhaps everyone should try going without it for a day every year."





Envisages an anticipated income of Rs. 6,848 billion, while estimated expenditure is Rs. 6,846 billion with a surplus of Rs. 1.6 million.

By Lal Gunesekera

The Colombo Municipal Council has planned to make the Metropolis cleaner and greener for its dwellers this year.

The CMC is the largest local government body in the country and has been administered by Special Commissioner Omar Kamil since the Council was dissolved in 2009 following inquiries held into various malpractices.

Kamil, a former Mayor of Colombo, told The Island that the budget of the CMC for this year (2011) was passed last week and he envisages an anticipated income of Rs. 6,848 billion, while estimated expenditure was Rs. 6,846 billion with a surplus of Rs. 1.6 million.

Rs. 275 million has been ear-marked for garbage collection and disposal and also for the improvement and rehabilitation of the road network, including Bloemendhal Road, Polhengoda Road Stage II), Bodhiraja Mawatha, Kettarama Temple road, High Level road, Poorvarama Road and Colombage Mawatha, initially.

Rs. 80 million has been set apart for the development of Galle Road from Kollupitiya Junction near Methodist College to Bambalapitiya Junction.

Rs. 88 million has been allocated for the improvement and reconstruction of the sewerage system, Rs. 60 million to ease the flooding of the city and Rs. 100 million for the welfare of over 7,500 employees of the CMC.

Rs. 80 million has been set apart for the free health care system of over 800,000 persons and maintenance of nearly 40 dispensaries. Rs. 50 million has also been allocated for under-served settlements, utility services and to maintain a better environment.

Asian Development Bank (ADB) assistance to the tune of US$ 100 million has also been granted for the rehabilitation of the existing sewerage lines.

Rs. 1.5 billion has been allocated for capital outlay and infrastructure.





Overweight womenfeel humiliated about their size on a daily basis, according to a survey

Aged between 45 and 54, the archetypal overweight woman has been married for 20 years, weighs 13 stone and three pounds, wears a size 18 dress, and experiences humiliation every day, according to weight loss group Slimming World.

The survey of 2,257 people, of which 1,467 were deemed to be overweight, found fat people struggled with their emotions in at least five everyday situations, such as looking in the mirror and at holiday snaps, seeing old friends, trying clothes on in a shop, and getting dressed for a night out.

Slimming World spokeswoman Caryl Richards said: ''Mrs Average faces a constant daily battle with her emotions, as failed diets and a desperate desire to lose weight cause a crisis of confidence, turning a string of everyday situations into sources of embarrassment, humiliation and dread.''

With two out of three people in the UK overweight or obese, according to Slimming World, ''the majority of the population is now trapped in this emotional cycle of daily humiliation, embarrassment and dread''.

The survey found men reported more positive responses like 'happy' and 'excited' in everyday situations, but still used the word 'fat' to express how they felt in two out of five circumstances.

In contrast, the 790 healthy weight people who took part in the survey reported positive answers in every situation.

To win the battle of the bulge, Ms Richards said a good support network was key.

She said: ''It's about tapping into the power of a group to positively influence individuals to make healthy new choices and lifestyle changes that are often too difficult to make on your own.''





The All Share Price Index (ASPI) measures the share price movements of all the stocks listed on the CSE whilst the Milanka Price Index (MPI) measures the price movement of highly capitalized companies listed on the CSE.

There was no index to measure the price movement of medium sized companies listed on the CSE. The MBSL Midcap Index filled the vacuum.

MBSL Midcap Index can be used as the benchmark index by individual and institutional investors who prefer growth but are prepared to with stand only conservative levels of volatility in their equity investments.

It can be used as the benchmark index for the introduction of Midcap linked Index funds.

The Midcap Index, together with the Milanka Price Index (MPI) generate valuable signals for portfolio managers for switching between larger-cap more sensitive stocks and the midcap less sensitive stocks in response to changing capital market conditions.

The MBSL Midcap Index is revised annually. The last revision was effect on 1 January 2011. The composition of the revised MBSL Midcap Index is as follows:









A well attended seminar was conducted by the Sri Lanka Standards Institution (SLSI) in collaboration with the U S Agency for International Development funded Connecting Regional Economies Project (USAID/CORE) to introduce industry standards to Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in the Eastern Province. The seminar entitled "Increasing Market Access through Upgrading Your Business with Required Standards" was conducted in Trincomalee where 33 SMEs representing food processing, hotel and construction sectors participated.

"Complying with national and international standards would definitely impact on the overall performance of the SMEs in all sectors and can result in the expansion of their businesses". Said Mr Gamini Dharmawardena Director System Certification of the Sri Lanka Standards Institution. "SMEs in the provinces have not been able to take the advantage of improving their businesses through standards certification due to lack of awareness and lack of access to required technical assistance. Thus, the seminar focused on the importance and benefits of obtaining standards certification as well as the process to acquire the certifications" he further commented.

"This is the greatest opportunity that I got in my business career. My aim is to access the market through quality standards. I am thankful for this opportunity. I hope to gather more producers in my industry for future initiatives of this nature." – said M T Rohini Mallika, a participant.

"This workshop was a great opportunity for my business. Now I realize how the market can be expanded for my products through obtaining industry standards. I am going to apply for the SLS standards." - said Mathew Manohari, a food manufacturer.

SMEs play a crucial role in economic development and have been identified as an important strategic sector for promoting growth and social development of Sri Lanka. Over the years, SMEs have gained wide recognition as a major source of employment, income generation, poverty alleviation and regional development. However, a majority of the SMEs do not have the adequate knowledge or processes involved in obtaining standards certifications that are essential to improving competitiveness and market access. Furthermore, most of the SMEs have misconception that standards certification is very costly and beyond their reach.

"Even though I have been a sweets manufacturer for 18 years, it was through this seminar that I got the knowledge about the standards that need to be maintained in order to expand my business" – said K P Ranjith Sisira Kumara, a sweets manufacturer from Trincomalee.

The seminar was conducted by highly experienced senior officials of the SLSI. The officials also highlighted the technical assistance and services offered by SLSI to obtain standards certification. Trilantha De Silva, a small entrepreneur that operates a food processing facility in Monaragala also shared his experiences with the participants on how standards certifications pay quick dividends even for small businesses.

"After obtaining GMP certification, I was able to increase my sales of fruit drinks from 5000 units to 30,000 units a month within a period of one year. GMP certificate not only helped me in convincing my clients to purchase large quantities of my products with confidence, but also helped me in streamlining my day to day operations and boost morale of my employees. As GMP helped me to transform my business with a fairly low investment, I am now in the process of obtaining SLS certification, which will help me to further improve and expand my business." - shared Trilantha De Silva of Pahala Uva Agro Products (PAP).

In support of this effort, a representative of the DFCC Bank also made a presentation on the types of assistance available for SMEs to obtain standard certification.

"We learnt a lot through a short period. I'm thankful to USAID and SLSI for this opportunity" – Weerasinghe Jayathilake, another participant.

The Sri Lanka Standards Institution is in the process of organizing many more seminars of this nature in the provinces, with the cooperation of the regional chambers during the year 2011.





The Department of Census and Statistics has released the figures for inflation for December. Inflation measures the changes in the price level. It is the rate of change. The Department explains the increase in the Cost of Living Index as due to changes in individual prices; an increase of 2.5 index point or 1.1 percentage was noted in December 2010 from November 2010 index which was 225.8. This increase represents expenditure value of Rs 455.26 in the "Market Basket". Of the total increase of 1.1 percent, Food items account for a increase of 1.07 percent mainly due to increases in prices of Bombay onions, Coconuts, Rice, Red Onions, Eggs, vegetables etc. So the explanation for the inflation or price changes are price changes themselves. Perhaps the Department is implying that the inflation is due to cost rather than demand driven inflation. This requires two elements: Cost and Cost pushing. Cost means the price rise must enter into the cost of a product as raw material or input costs as in the case of oil. This type of inflation is likely in 2011 with the rise in oil prices although it may be delayed by the government's administrative fiat.

Economists argue about the causes of inflation- demand driven or cost push etc. Perhaps it is better to define inflation as the fall in purchasing power of the currency. Your house has doubled in price. What does it mean. If the purchasing power has been halved when you sell your house at the doubled price are you better off. Can the price of your house double unless the money supply has also increased? Inflation cannot take place without an increase in money supply. Keynesians would say the increased money supply must be spent to have an effect on prices etc. Who is in charge of the money supply? Who creates new money ( currency plus bank deposits)? Who spends the new money created? Can supply of goods increase to cope with higher demand?





Seylan Bank has further expanded its rewards portfolio for its thousands of customers all over Sri Lanka with the launch of Seylan SURE, the bank said in a statement.

As its name rightly suggests, Seylan SURE is a specially crafted scheme which brings gifts and cash rewards to all current and normal savings (both individual and joint) account holders customers who maintain a minimum balance of Rs. 20,000/- with the bank.

Seylan SURE focuses on four important areas of one's life – marriage, the birth of a child, the birthdays of senior citizens and surgery.

All such account holders will receive special cash rewards at marriage and on the birth of a child. It goes a step further and gives account holders a cash grant when they have to undergo surgery (cataract operations included) at a private or government hospital. This facility is also extended to the account holders' immediate family members.

Furthermore, all senior citizens account holders will be rewarded on their 60th birthday or any birthday after that on a one-off basis. Going a step further, Seylan Bank also treats 50 lucky customers with an exciting three-day, two-night tour of Bangkok every six months.

Account holders who maintain regular balances in pre-specified slabs of Rs. 20,000/- to Rs. 30,000/-, Rs 30,001- to Rs. 60,000/-, Rs. 60,001/- to Rs. 90,000/-, Rs. 90,001/- to Rs. 150,000/-, and Rs. 150,001/- upwards, are entitled to the rewards. Every Rs. 20,000/- entitles customers to one chance in the draw, while each chance increases in multiples of Rs. 20,000/-

Assistant General Manager Marketing at the Seylan Bank Kamal Deshapriya said, "We're proud to be the Bank with a Heart. It is because of this that we not only feel the pulse of the masses, but are also absolutely in tune with the aspirations of the public of Sri Lanka. The launch of Seylan SURE take our commitment to the public, a step further, as we endeavour to constantly innovate and add even greater value to our portfolio of products and services to the Sri Lankan public irrespective of age."





Susanthika, Dharsha, Sriyani and Sugath to be trained abroad... but Minister's move irks some senior coaches

January 3, 2011, 10:31 pm

by Reemus Fernando

Sports Minister Mahindananda Aluthgamage plans to provide foreign coaching training to former athletes Susanthika Jayasinghe, Sugath Thilakaratne, Sriyani Kulawansa and Damayanthi Dharsha, the country's most decorated athletes, bypassing a host of top level coaches who have rendered a great service to train athletes to international standards. While the move has irked some of the top coaches, some regard it as an essential step towards rejuvenating athletics which has hit a new low as of late.

"This is a step towards making athletes believe that there will be a future for them. They (the four former athletes) are the most experienced athletes. I find some of these former athletes not doing what they should have been doing. Fetching a child back and forth from school has become the routine of some former athletes. I think the country will be benefitted by this move (providing them coaching experience)," Aluthgamage told 'The Island' yesterday.

The Sports Minister said negotiations are being made through the Sri Lanka Embassy in the USA to provide an year's coaching training.

While Damayanthi Dharsha and Olympic medalist Susanthika Jayasinghe who are both mothers have not taken to coaching despite having years of international competition experience, former hurdler Sriyani Kulawansa and Sugath Thilakaratne have functioned as coaches since their retirement from athletics.

Dharsha, who is yet to be officially informed about the foreign coaching training welcomed the move. "It is timely that Sri Lanka obtained expertise on coaching. Whether it is in Sri Lanka or overseas, we should get foreign expertise on coaching to be competitive. It is a good move," said Darsha. She said that the lack of coaching experience was one of the reasons that held her back from getting into coaching.

Former national coach Sunil Gunawardena, who was also a reputed athlete in his day too highly recommended the move. "Why they (former athletes) have not been to coaching was because they did not have the coaching experience. We too were benefitted by such a move when we were sent to Germany years ago. That is a good move," said Gunawardena. Gunawardena, Yoganada Wijesundara, Lakshman de Alwis and several top level national coaches were some of the beneficiaries of such coaching training experiences in Germany.

However, a number of coaches who have produced athletes of high standards, including those attached to the Ministry of Sports feel they have been hard done by the new minister's move which they label 'too radical'.

"Gaining international fame is one thing. Coaching is another. See the commitment of the local coaches who toil hard to unearth talent. Not only the coaches attached to the sports ministry. There are countless number of others who do it for the love of it. They don't gain anything for coaching. It is worth investing on them rather than spending money on those who don't have the love for coaching," laments a coach who wants to remain anonymous.

Meanwhile, another coach who has produced several international level athletes argues that the choice of the former athletes doesn't auger well. He said that one of the four former athletes who had been coaching for several years now has failed to produce even a junior athlete to compete for Sri Lanka and it was a waste of money investing on them. "There are dozens of other good coaches who are willing to learn and get acquainted with modern techniques of coaching. It is worth investing on them. There are former athletes who have turned to coaching but have failed to produce an a top class athlete to date. I feel it is not fair by the hard working coaches," said the coach.

The Sports Minister has other ideas. "This is just the beginning. Negotiations are on the way to grant at least 50 local coaches foreign training," said Aluthgamage.

He said that negotiations are on with Ukrainian authorities to get 50 local coaches trained.

The minister said according to the plan, Susanthika, Dharsha, Thilakaratne and Kulawansa will get the opportunity to get coaching training in the USA, in 2012.





Brands are facing surprising disasters more than ever – we shall look at some of them which brought in a whole flood to its brand and the organization in the year 2010.From an Oil spill, recalls, CEO statements through to allegation and lawsuits, these organizations have managed to keep up but yet lost their brand value significantly in 2010. The brand valuations are from the two largest brand valuations firms in the world – BrandZ and Interbrand.

1. British Petroleum's oil spill

British Petroleum once known as 'Beyond Petroleum' is tarnished for its spill in the Mexican Gulf. The spill was the worst ever when combining its size and location. While it may not be the biggest, it certainly will be one of the most economically damaging and costly, simply because it occurred in some of America's most productive waters.

The BP's brand value which was valued at $20bn n 1st Jan, 2010 declined by 100% to $0 in June 30th 2010

2. Toyota's Prius recall worldwide

Toyota's Prius recall worldwide damaged the brand significantly. What was then known for its lean management practices with their objective of providing safety drive for customers now in turn actually killed them due to the technical issues with the models in the Prius range.

The recalls, negative PR allegations and liability suits resulted in a loss of 20% of the brand's value – from a $30bn on 1st Jan to $24bn on 20th June, 2010.

3. Johnson and Johnson children's product recalls

On April 2010, McNeil Consumer Healthcare, a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson voluntary recalled of 43 over-the-counter children's medicines. Medications in the recall included liquid versions of Tylenol, Tylenol Plus, Motrin, Zyrtec, and Benadryl. This was due to not fully meeting the required manufacturing specifications". This recall has affected at least 12 countries.

The official FDA report which was released on May 4 said that the investigators found thick dust, grime, and contaminated ingredients at the manufacturing plant located at Fort Washington, Pennsylvania, United States. The plant was shut down. Since now, there are still recalls.The brand valued at $45bn on 1st Jan plunged into a 27% decline to $33bn on 30th June, 2010.

4. Research in Motion's (RIM) Blackberry

What was then the name for dominating the smartphone business (from the year 2002 – 2009), is now losing out its biggest share to Apple's Iphone, Google based Android handsets, as well as a range of introduced smartphones from LG, Samsung and Motorola. Recent statistical data from Changewave, a well-known wireless research firm, showed in June 2010's poll that only 6% would go for a Blackberry device whilst 52% stating for an Iphone followed by 19% preferring to go for an Android mobile device.

The brand value plunged to $16bn on 20th June from a $25bn value as at 1st Jan – that's almost a 36% drop in just six months.

5. Dell's lawsuits and allegations

Dell has been sliding since 2007. In 2007, Dell disclosed an accounting scandal aimed at inflating its financial performance. As a result, it was forced it to restate financial results.In 2008, federal investigators found that it had a relationship with Intel that federal, EU and NY State authorities claimed helped the chipmaker maintain an unfair advantage in the PC market and artificially inflated Dell's earnings performance.

Another lawsuit claims that Dell shipped as many as 12 million computers containing faulty electrical components - for the worst some e-mails stated that employees were even aware of the problems.

The brand plunged to $9bn on 30th June from a value of $16bn as of 1st Jan 2010.

6. Apple CEO' Statement

Apple has damaged Adobe particularly more than any of its other companies. Its Adobe Flash's shift to migrate to mobile devices is being refused whereby refusing to allow Flash software onto its iPhones, iPods and iPads.

In April this year, Apple's CEO Steve Jobs wrote: "Flash was created during the PC era for PCs and mice. The mobile era is about low power devices, touch interfaces and open Web standards, all areas where Flash falls short." I could say that this statement is highly an Ouch for the users!

Adobe's stock declined from $35 the day that Jobs wrote the statement to $32.50 five trading days later. Apple also refuses Adobe's Creative Suite software to run on its devices.

This has caused the brand value to decline to $4bn as of 30th June from $7bn in 1st Jan, 2010.

7. Sony's loss in the video game market

Once the name that was knows in consumer electronics, in its fiscal 2010 ending to March, it recorded various high losses, and revenue fell significantly for the three years continuously TVs and digital cameras sales continued to drop.

Sony's market leadership in the video-game market has also exploded by competition from Microsoft and Nintendo – in which according to the measurement firm BrandZ, the PS3 device's brand valuation of $426mn compared to the Wii's $10bn and the Xbox 360's $4.6bn.

The overall brand dropped to $7bn on 30th June from $12bn on 1st Jan, 2010.

8. Goldman Sachs

The SEC investigation and settlement has put off some current and potential customers, but Goldman also has other challenges to deal with – face legal charges from authorities from the NY State Attorney General.

Analysts state the new regulations could cut $1.5 billion from Goldman's profits. In its second-quarter earnings report on July, Goldman reported that revenue from investments and trading had plunged 40% year over year.

The brand value that stood at $16bn on 1st Jan 2010 dropped to $10bn to six months on 30th June.

9. Nokia's miss-out in the smartphone category

Though Nokia is the largest player of mobile handsets globally,claiming up to 37% of the global market share, it has failed to gain a share in smartphones. Its shares declined to 67% in the three years since the iPhone.

In June this year, it projected the second-quarter revenue for its mobile devices and services division will be below its previous forecast of $8.2bn to $8.8bn.

The brand valued at $40bn on 1st Jan 2010 plunged to $27bn in Jun 30th.

10. Google

Google's decision to largely abandon China, the fastest-growing Internet market in the world, and slowing growth in its search engine business have taken a toll on the company's brand value this year.

After disputes from the Chinese government and Google's accusations that its servers were broken into by a government-supported group, Google decided to move its operations to Hong Kong. Google lost its competitive advantage in the Chinese search market to local search company Baidu and Microsoft's Bing.

Google's core search engine business has also started to slow, and expenses have increased more sharply, from $3.6 billion to $4.5 billion during those periods.

The staggering brand value which stood at $100 billion on 1st Jan declined to a -26% to $74bn on June 30th 2010.

Conclusion

There are many things to be learnt from these big corporates – some who manage to twist and win, and some who lose out big. A brand need to be harnessed carefully with marketers having a birds-eye view in the latest happenings in the industry, changes in the market, behavioral of the consumers, and the wider stakeholder management.

The whole globe is integrated – something happens elsewhere does have an effect in the local community – this is the world we live in. Brands have the power of attraction – both positively attracted and if mismanaged leads to negative attraction which is of course we marketers understand it's deadly.

Even though these organization listed out are the top most value branded companies with a wider range of the best brands, they still make mistakes somewhere or rather – no one can be perfect, but there is an option of trying your best to be perfect. Understand the gravity of this – many corporates take it easy on their brands and once they lose out, they just put it all on the marketing department – this is not how it works. It works in an integration basis; we all know that marketing and branding needs to be practiced across the whole organization from the top to the very most bottom in a wider 360 degree angle. Save your brand now, or face your own death.





Health Minister Maithripala Sirisena yesterday said that a circular against the provision of free health care by State hospitals to patients with alcohol related ailments would be issued within the next two weeks.

Minister Sirisena, speaking after visiting the Maligawatte Kidney Research and Transplant Centre yesterday morning said that once the circular was issued patients seeking treatment at government hospitals after consuming alcohol would have to foot the bill.

The approval of President Mahinda Rajapaksa had already been obtained to levy a fee from alcoholics for medical treatment for alcoholic related ailments at State hospitals from January 1, 2011.

Those seeking treatment for alcoholic related ailments would not be discharged until they settled their bills, the Minister said adding that the funds received from them would be credited to the Hospital Development Fund.





The International Air Transport Association (IATA) announced international scheduled traffic results for November showing 8.2% year-on-year passenger traffic growth and a 5.4% increase for freight. The passenger load factor for November averaged 75.6% while the freight load factor stood at 55.2% for the month.

November saw traffic growth slow from the 10% increase recorded in the passenger business and the 14.5% growth in freight in October. The slowdown in 2010 is partially skewed because of the exceptionally rapid rise in traffic volumes recorded during the fourth quarter of 2009. However, when viewed in absolute terms, air travel fell by 0.8% and air freight fell by 1.1% between October and November 2010.

This slower growth does not necessarily signal a negative trend. Even with the decline in November, passenger and freight traffic are still expanding at annualized rates of between 5-6% which is in line with the industry's historical growth trend.

"The industry is shifting gears in the recovery cycle. Growth is slowing towards normal historical levels in the 5-6% range. Relative weakness in developed markets is being offset by the momentum of economic expansion in developing markets. We see a strong end to 2010 that boosted the year's profit forecast to $15.1 billion. Slowing traffic growth is in line with our projections for a reduced profit of $9.1 billion in 2011. That's a 1.5% margin. More hard work will be needed in the New Year to achieve sustainable levels of profitability," said Giovanni Bisignani, IATA's Director General and CEO.

International Passenger Demand

* The level of international air travel is now 4% above the pre-recession peak of early 2008. All regions, except Africa, reported a slowing in year-on-year growth rates from October to November.

* Europe's carriers recorded 7.3% growth in passenger traffic, below the 9.4% recorded in October. Overall travel performed by the region's carriers is only slightly ahead of the pre-recession levels of early 2008. In absolute terms there was a 1.7% fall in traffic volumes for the region's carriers between October and November. Industrial labor action and adverse weather conditions particularly affected Europe's carriers at the very end of the month. The impact of these will continue to be seen in Decembertraffic.

* North American carriers saw their growth slow from 12.4% in October to 9.5% in November. Capacity growth in November was 9.5%, resulting in a load factor of 78.1%, the highest among the regions. November passenger traffic levels for North American carriers equaled the pre-recession levels of early 2008.

* Asia-Pacific carriers saw their growth slow from 7.3% in October to 5.8% in November. Capacity expanded relatively in tandem (5.9%) for a load factor of 75.6%. Despite the region's strong economic growth and financial performance, November traffic levels were still 2% below pre-recession levels.

* Latin American carriers showed the most dramatic decline in growth rates—from 4.9% in October to virtually zero in November. The lingering impact of the Mexicana failure is the largest contributing factor in this decline which resulted in a 2.1% absolute contraction of travel performed by the region's carriers between October and November. Adjusting figures to eliminate the impact of Mexicana, the region would be experiencing growth in the low double digits. The region's load factor stands at 77.5%.

* Middle East carriers saw their growth rate decline from 17.8% in October to 16.7% in November. The region's carriers handled 16% more traffic in November than at the pre-recession peak in early 2008, showing that they have gained market share over the course of the recession and the recovery. The region recorded a load factor of 74.3%, below the global average of 75.6%.

* African carriers were the only region to show an increase in growth rates from October (12.6%) to November (16.4%). The region's carriers moved 11% more travelers in November than they did at the pre-recession peak in early 2008.

Freight Demand

* The air freight recovery hit a peak in May 2010. Compared to that peak, volumes have fallen 7%. The volume of air freight in November was equal to pre-recession levels of early 2008.

* November's year-on-year growth of 5.4% is a significant shift from the 14.5% recorded in October. This was exaggerated by the exceptionally strong performance in November 2009. In absolute terms, there was a 1.1% fall in freight volumes from October to November. All regions, except Africa, showed dramatic drops in year-on-year growth rates from October to November.

* November freight carried by Asia-Pacific carriers showed a 4.1% year-on-year increase. The region's carriers moved a similar amount of freight in November that they did at the pre-recession peak of 2008.

* Middle Eastern carriers saw 12.4% year-on-year growth for November. The region's carriers handled 14% more freight in November than they did at the pre-recession peak in early 2008.

* North American carriers showed 1.5% year-on-year growth in November, but overall volumes remain 7% below the pre-recession levels of early 2008. European carriers experienced a similar pattern with 6.6% year-on-year growth in November but overall volumes remaining 12% below pre-recession levels.

"The year-end holiday season has been tough for travelers and for airlines. Exceptionally adverse weather conditions in Europe and the US resulted in travel chaos. Passengers were inconvenienced. Airlines saw lost revenues and saw costs rise. As the backlogs of stranded passengers clear and the situation normalizes, there are two opportunities that must not be lost. The first is to learn and apply lessons from this difficult season so that all stakeholders in the industry's infrastructure are better prepared for future exceptional situations," said Bisignani.

"The second opportunity is to evaluate the regulatory world in which aviation operates. In 2010, the Icelandic volcano and the year-end adverse weather made the value of air transport crystal clear. Modern life and the global economy depend on aviation. Whether you are a business person operating in the global market, families keeping in touch across distances or heads-of-state on important foreign missions, aviation is critical. While memories of the travel chaos are still fresh, it's time to evaluate a long list of government imposed industry handicaps, including excessive taxation, out-dated ownership restrictions, over-regulation where market forces could do better, under-investment in infrastructure and generally poor regulation of monopoly suppliers. We must not let governments forget all of this while waiting for a change of seasons," said Bisignani.

"For our part, IATA is launching Vision 2050—a dialogue on the industry's future among strategic thinkers from government, industry and academia. We will meet in Singapore this February with an important mission to build a vision for a successful and sustainable industry in four decades. The group will be guided by the inspirational support of Singapore's Minister Mentor Lee Kuan Yew and the expertise on competitiveness of Harvard University's Professor Michael Porter. Our common goal is to fortify the foundations of the industry to support its ever-growing role in supporting modern life in our global world," said Bisignani.





Open letter to Minister Basil Rajapaksa from the Bio Energy Association of Sri Lanka and the Mahatma Gandhi Centre Colombo

January 3, 2011, 12:00 pm

What coconut growers' need is not subsidized imported fertilizer but a subsidy for 'growing' their own fertilizer.

"Give us subsidized fertilizer and we will double the yield" is the quick fix, put forward to the Economic Development Minister Basil Rajapaksa by the Coconut Growers' Association (The Island 28th Dec 2010). The short supply and price increase for coconuts in the country highlights the need to increase production, and the Coconut Growers' Association's 'concern' for consumer hardship. There is nothing wrong with the coconut farmers of this country wanting to simulate the success of increased rice yields which is attributed to the substantial fertilizer subsidy. In the long term interest of this country it is neither advisable nor profitable to go on the subsidized fertilizer route.

There is substantial scientific evidence and practical farm experience to maximize coconut yield per unit area by applying "green fertilizer" grown in situ as non-competing companion crops with the coconut. Late Vidya Jothi Dr Ray Wijewardene (Former Chancellor, University of Moratuwa) did not use even an ounce of Urea in his Khombe estate but had the best yielding coconut estate in the country, with yields close to 7000 nuts/ac which is three times the national average. The only source on nitrogen for his coconuts came from foliage striped off a fast growing tree, scientifically known as Gliricidia sepium and commonly identified as wetamara, makulatha, albizzia, giniciria, nanchi etc... The Coconut Research Institute has published extensive details of benefits from gliricidia: leaves as highly nutritious feed for livestock or as organic nitrogenous fertilizer and soil conditioner, and wood as a replacement for fossil oil based energy in industries

In spite of the well known benefits, an identified need for an alternative source of energy as a way to self reliance and a response to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and recognizing gliricidia as the fourth plantation crop after tea, rubber and coconut in the country there is still reluctance to adopt such cost effective sustainable indigenous energy or fertilizer alternatives.

Fertilizer subsidy comes at an enormous cost, and subsidy cost to the country to subsizdize the rice farmers is put at Rs 40 Billion per year, which could be otherwise used for development of equally important sectors of the economy. One of the arguments used against adoption of gliricidia and other fast growing trees is land availability for dedicated plantations. Although this argument is not valid as there are lot of unused land particularly in the dryer zone of the country for such crops, coconut growers in particular are at an advantage and need no additional land to grow gliricidia. As explained above, growing gliricidia will be a complementary crop to coconut and will be not competitive to it. Thus, what is required is a concerted effort to encourage growing of gliricidia wherever there are coconut plantations in the country. As gliricidia is a perennial and coppiceable plant it will last the lifespan of the coconut trees, and serve as a source of fertilizer for those trees. Benefits from the coconut plantation will be enhanced if livestock (eg.dairy cows) can also be introduced. Sticks from gliricidia can be sold or used as an energy source on farm in addition to the possibility of generating biogas if livestock are also components integrated with coconuts. Dr.Wijewardne's farm provides an example of an integrated coconut growing system in the country. Such integrated farming systems are very common in other countries.

We believe that coconut farmers should not be asking for fertilizer subsidy on imported fertilizer. What they should be asking for is subsidies (2 to 3 years maximum) for growing their (e.g. gliricidia) fertilizers in situ. If the coconut farmers make this as their priority they will not only be increasing coconut yield and the overall income of their estates but will be doing a great service to this country towards self reliance. We believe that Hon Minister Basil Rajapakse can make this happen, and it should become the future direction for sustainable economic development of this country.





A handicraft exhibition and fair organised by the United Elders' Society of Ekala, Gallawatte was held at the Dharmodaya Buddhist centre. Picture shows senior citizens at their respective stalls exhibiting the wares they produced by themselves.





Drowning of youth: Two suspects remanded

The Negombo Chief Magistrate A. M. N. P. Amarasinghe on Saturday ordered two suspects charged with the murder of a person by drowning him in Issanwadiya, Poruthota to be remanded.

The suspects M. Ajith Kumara and Danushka Navaratne are both residents of Katana North.

According to the Kochchikade police, the suspects had last week gone for a sea bath, accompanied by their friend Yogarajah Chandran of Udangawa at Issanwadiya in Poruthota. Yogarajan had refused to join them because he could not swim. But the suspects had dragged Yogarajan to the deep sea and left him there. Subsequently, he had drowned, the police said.





African Union: The limits of the possible

January 3, 2011, 8:26 pm

by Gwynne Dyer

"It's not a bluff," said an adviser to Alassane Ouattara, the real winner in November's presidential election in Ivory Coast, who is now besieged in a hotel in Abidjan, the capital, under United Nations protection. "The (African Union) soldiers are coming much faster than anyone thinks." But it IS a bluff, and the AU is just undermining its own credibility by threatening to use force.

The incumbent president, Laurent Gbagbo, who stole the Ivory Coast election by getting the Constitutional Council (headed by a crony) to invalidate many of Ouattara's votes, still controls the capital and the army. His actions have been condemned by the United Nations, the African Union, the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), the United States and the European Union, but getting him out will not be easy.

Gbagbo, once a history professor and a pro-democracy campaigner, has latterly turned himself into the self-appointed defender of the Christian peoples in the southern half of Ivory Coast. Now he says: "I do not believe at all in a civil war. But obviously, if the pressures continue as they have, they will push towards war, confrontation."

He knows about civil war, because one broke out two years after he was elected president in 2000. Military mutineers, mostly Muslim troops from the north who didn't want to be demobilised and lose their jobs, attempted to seize power in Abidjan.

They were quickly defeated in the capital, but other Muslim troops took control all across the north. French troops blocked them from moving south, and after a couple of months the divided country settled into the sullen cease-fire that has lasted for the past eight years. The civil war that Gbagbo is warning about would be the second round, not the first.

Then why doesn't he just accept his electoral defeat and quit? Partly because he just wants to stay in power, of course, but it's not as simple as that. He has real support among the Christians of the south, because many of them see Alassane Ouattara as the democratic facade of a Muslim takeover bid that began with the military mutiny in 2002.

The north-south division in Ivory Coast is real. The country has shifted from a narrow Christian majority twenty-five years ago to a Muslim majority today – and it has done so largely through illegal immigration from the much poorer, entirely Muslim countries to the north: Burkina Faso, Mali and Guinea.

About four million of the 21 million people now living in Ivory Coast are illegal immigrants, and almost all of those immigrants are Muslims. It has changed the electoral balance, because many of them register to vote, especially in the north of the country where they speak the same languages as the local citizens. Southerners are afraid that they will lose control, and so they back Gbagbo.

It's really a rich-poor problem, not a Christian-Muslim problem. The country's agricultural resources, particularly the cocoa plantations that make Ivory Coast the wealthiest country in West Africa, are mainly in the south. Southerners think that a northern-led government would divert a lot of that income to the north, and they are probably right.

That would only be fair, but southerners also believe that hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants were allowed to register in the north, and that they all voted for Ouattara. They may be right, they may be wrong, but they believe it. So the November election didn't solve the Ivorian problem; it exacerbated it.

The African Union is determined to force Gbagbo to accept the election outcome because it wants to break with the past and make democratic elections the norm in Africa. It has had some recent successes in thwarting military coups, but the situation in Ivory Coast is a lot murkier, and direct intervention by the AU would be a lot harder.

Armchair generals in the AU and ECOWAS talk boldly of military intervention to drive Gbagbo from power, referencing the successful operations to end civil wars in Liberia and Sierra Leone in recent years. But Ivory Coast is five times bigger and richer than either of those countries, and its army can actually fight.

Besides, where would the AU and ECOWAS find enough African troops to intervene effectively? Only Nigeria is big enough, but it is most unlikely to commit a lot of troops this year to what might be a real war in Ivory Coast. This is an election year in Nigeria, and body bags coming home as the voters go to the polls are rarely a vote-winner.

The United States and the European Union have already imposed sanctions on Gbagbo's government, and the Central Bank of West African States has blocked his access to Ivory Coast's account. These are measures that will work slowly, if at all, but there is no alternative. Starting a war is rarely a good idea. Starting an unwinnable one never is.





The Ministry of Agrarian Services and Wildlife had taken steps to open two more zones at the Ruhuna (Yala National Park) this month to give a further boost to tourism.

Minister S. M. Chandrasena told The Island that the Zone 2 and 3 would be opened this month.

He said a strategy would be worked out to prevent disasters resulting from man-elephant encounters. "I see this conflict as one between farmers and elephants. Elephants suffer due to their habitat loss while farmers lose economically owing to damage caused by wild elephants."

In Yala, the Minister said, only the Zone 1 located 300 km south of Colombo, had been opened for the public in the past due to terrorist threats that prevailed at that time.

But, the entire park was now open to visitors, he said.

Yala, situated in the southeast region of the country in the Southern Province and Uva Province, is the second largest national park in Sri Lanka.





I have been reading Kuldip Nayar's feature articles appearing in The Island with interest as they generally presented a different view of India. But I was rather perturbed to read his above mentioned article on Sri Lanka, which appeared on 27th Dec. I would wish to express my humble opinion on some of the issues raised by him therein.

Really the 'cat is out of the bag' on his actual concern and the message he wanted to convey is clear, in his last sentence. He says "But if Colombo continues to encourage China and Pakistan, India would have to do something to safeguard its interests." What a patronizing statement!

So what is unsaid here is that Sri Lanka being the neighbour, India will choose whom Sri Lanka should associate with and her friends! Ignoring the insult, let me explain the Sri Lankan side of the story. It is not Pakistan or China who created this mess for Sri Lanka by creating the Monster that is Tamil Tiger Movement, by providing them a safe haven, training them and arming them in their formative years, with which Sri Lanka had been struggling with for the last 30 years and finally succeeded in wiping them out by the dint of her own hard work, which caused so much suffering to the Tamils themselves whose welfare he is now mourning over. If not for this short sighted policy, perhaps Rajiv Gandhi may have been still living, who knows? Although it is conceded that the ultimate success would not have been possible if not for the 'hands off' policy by India this time during our final campaign, we know that India did that not for our sake but for its own sake, because the 'Monster' they created was becoming a real threat their to security and political stability. Thus, Sri Lanka did a big favour by India, by removing a looming threat to her security and stability when Sri Lanka saved her from a serious impending crisis with no cost to India, for which India should in fact be grateful to Sri Lanka. It reminds me of the famous lion and the mouse story. Yet, during this difficult campaign, when India was refusing to help us with the weapons we asked for and were trying to tell us which weapons and military devices we should use and not use, it was Pakistan and China who readily helped us all the way. Not content with nurturing the Sri Lankan terrorists, when India denied the Sri Lanka military men admission to their higher Military Training establishments, it was Pakistan who opened theirs readily. Pakistan also co-operated with the Sri Lankan Air Force, exchanging their know-how with us. Incidentally, it was neither China nor Pakistan who nurtured Tamil terrorists in their countries.

It is true that India has helped us in this effort; but it was always in exchange for a bigger deal in return. Nayar says: "New Delhi has also allocated a large sum of money for rehabilitating the Tamils who have suffered during the war." Not only that. India is doing the Northern Railway line, re-developing Palali Airport and obtained a contract to construct a coal powered plant in Trincomalee etc. etc. But look at what they extracted in return. A consular office in Jaffna and Hambantota, of all places. For what? I may ask. It is common knowledge here that the Jaffna office given unasked, is to serve as a watch post for RAW and to churn up another revolt if the need arises, through the RAW, in time to come. And what is the Hambantota office going to do, other than to serve as a watch post for the RAW, thinking that China is going to have a military base here! Could India be so naïve to imagine that Sri Lanka will entertain such fancy ideas? In Sinhala there is a saying Ahaka yana nai sarama asse daagannawa meaning: "one does not tuck under one's sarong, cobras that are going away." Our President is quite familiar with all this folklore. He is a man of the soil.

True, China in return have got many mega contracts here. They have given them on very low interest credit. They did not ask us for a pound of flesh, like some others. They did not scrutinize our bank balance and our earning capacity like the World Bank or the IMF. before they released the loan in tranches watching our work and conduct. The Chinese do not try to teach us how we should spend our money and try to brainwash us on how to manage our affairs as they do. In short, they have not impeached our self respect as a nation. They have not tried to influence our way of life. As somebody pointed out, they have even brought their own prostitutes for their work force. So what, as long as they take them back to their next work site?

Besides, is it nothing but proper to reciprocate China in whatever way we could as they have been our unfailing friend with no questions asked when almost the entire Western world was bringing pressure on us during the height of our crisis. And Pakistan who had done all this without asking anything in return, a true friend indeed.

Nayar says in one place: "He (Rajiv Gandhi) even sent an Indian Peace Keeping Force when the Sri Lankan government was in trouble". Oh my foot! This makes the whole of Sri Lanka laugh aloud. J.R. Jayewardene himself must be laughing in his grave! Who put the Sri Lankan government in trouble, may I ask? Who prevented the Sri Lankan forces from dealing the knockout blow to Prabhakaran in July1987, with the 'Parippu invasion', may I ask? If not for the unseemly, crude intervention of India on that occasion we would have saved all the lives of several thousands of Sri Lankans lost till 1 1⁄2 years ago, of the many Indian soldiers as well as that of Rajiv Gandhi himself. That was not Pakistan or China. And who do you think Rajiv Gandhi was, to 'persuade' Sri Lanka to include an Annexure C in our own Constitution? Have you heard of any such thing happening anywhere else in the world? Did Sri Lanka ever try to tell India how to solve their Kashmir problem where heinous human rights violations are alleged to be occurring regularly? Have we asked for a war crimes inquiry against India? That is not all. We are still struggling here with the 13th Amendment that Rajiv Gandhi forced on our Constitution, and are left helpless with the Provincial Councils set up here as a result, which has turned out to be a white elephant. And he says : 'A federal structure is what is needed in Sri Lanka so that the North has a feeling that it is as much part of the country as other areas area+". A federal structure for Sri Lanka which is minutely smaller than the smallest state in India? And that in this age of communication revolution? You must be kidding.

Nayar refers to the Sri Lankan government as "Sinhalese government". A Sinhalese government when several Tamils and Muslims are holding Ministerial positions in our jumbo cabinet. How come? Mr. Nayar an ex-diplomat of repute in India should know better. If not for the proportional representation system in our constitution, very few of these people would even reached parliament. "..... to persuade Rajapaksa to decentralize power and to have the North to have a say in their own affairs". Who does Nayar think are the government agents in Jaffna, Mannar and Batticaloa are, but Tamils? So are all the officers in the administrative bureaucracy there, down to the grassroots level. So are the top of the corporate sector in these parts. So, where is the "Sinhalese Government"? Are the structures in the rest of the country any different? So where do we need the advice of Nirupama Rao? It would be a better exercise for her to study the administrative structures here at some depth, to advice her own government.

"This will only confirm their belief that they (Tamils) are second-class citizens". Could Nayar please tell us some instances where the Tamils of this country are made to be "second class citizens"?. This is a genuine enquiry. As far as we know, there are no situations where Tamils or any other community is made to feel "second class". They have held most of the highest positions in this country and some, even todate. They are entitled to the same fundamental rights that the rest of the people are entitled to under the constitution. They are entitled to all the privileges that the rest of the population is enjoying in this country. True, they have suffered setbacks in these opportunities due to the deprivations caused because of the restrictions imposed by Prabhakaran. From now onwards, there are no obstacles down the road.

As regards the national anthem, is the beautiful Indian national anthem sung in any other language than Bengali? Do the rest of the people in all the other Indian states thereby become second class citizens as a result? At the same time, will the Tamil Diaspora now domiciled in England and Canada feel second class citizens because they cannot sing the national anthems of those countries in Tamil? On the same line of argument, will the Sri Lankan anthem have to be sung in Malay too because there is a Malay minority too here? It seems strange that all these things are being decided for Sri Lanka, by other people quite unsolicited.

That brings me to my last point. If only India and other countries in the rest of the world could leave Sri Lanka alone, to manage her own affairs, much of the problems will be solved. True, we have some problems to solve in the aftermath of the 'war'. We are settling them slowly one by one of our own time. These are not things that could be rushed through, to please others. We have confidence in Rajapaksa to deliver the goods, despite the motley crowd that he has to manage with; he does make mistakes, for he is human. But he has made fewer mistakes than most leaders we have had.

To wind up, let me say this to Kuldip Nayar to be conveyed to the Indian high command, Rahul Gandhi inclusive. Sri Lanka has not gone insane, to be doing things that would jeopardize the interests and fears of India, our closest neighbour. No sane government would do that. For, to do so will be to the ultimate detriment of our country. We are not such fools. But by unnecessarily bullying and pushing Sri Lanka with condescension, India will only push Sri Lanka more and more into the lap of China, which we do not fancy either. However, a country needs many friends. For, when pushed and bullied by another, there has to be a way out. Therefore, please understand us in a realistic perspective and the best that India could do is to leave us alone, while managing the cheap rabid communalism of Tamil Nadu as best as you could.





The Kalutara South Police on Christmas Eve arrested a person for shoplifting. The security guards attached to the Sathosa outlet in Kalutara South had felt suspicious about a man and checked him when he was leaving the outlet. The guards recovered two Nescafe bags worth Rs 510 in his possession.

The police was informed and he was arrested. He was produced before the Kalutara Magistrate and remanded till Janauary 08.





The Local Government Elections Amendment Bill, which is scheduled to be debated in Parliament today, should be postponed, since the government is planning to hold the next LG polls under the Proportional Representation System and not under First Past the Post,the UNP says.

Chief Opposition Whip John Ameratunga told The Island that the UNP's objection to rushing through with amending the bill had been raised at the party leaders meeting held at the parliamentary complex.

"We agreed to support the Local Government Elections Amendment Bill because the government made us understand that the next poll would be held under a mixture of the FPP and PR systems. Now that they have changed gear and want to stick to the PR System, there is no need to rush through with the Bill."

The UNP was represented at yesterday's meeting by its Deputy Leader Karu Jayasuriya, Joseph Michael Perera, John Ameratunga and Lakshman Kiriella. Local Government Minister A.L.M. Athaulla chaired the proceedings.The UPFA leaders who were present, included the Chief Opposition Whip Dinesh Gunawardena and Economic Development Minister Basil Rajapaksa.

Ameratunga said that the government ministers had claimed that the Delimitation Commission, which would be tasked with the demarcation of wards and electorates,could be established only after the Local Government Elections Amendment Bill was passed.

"The Ministers,also said that a definite decision has not been taken as yet,with the regard to the procedure that would be adopted at the forthcoming local polls."

Meanwhile,the government yesterday announced that it has decided to dissolve all local bodies on January 10 and hold elections by mid March.

The extended terms of 18 Municipal Councils,42 Urban Councils, and 270 Pradeshiya Sabhas,would now be terminated two weeks before their due date.





Colombo International School's Kandy branch emerged victorious in the Kandy District under-13 mini basketball tournament worked off recently. CIS' both girls and boys teams emerged victorious in the competition suggesting their future in inter-school basketball is going to be exciting. CIS is coached by veteran basketball coach D.S. Pingamage, a former national coach.





Crew members of the MV Sun Sea are LTTE operatives - Canadian officials

January 3, 2011, 10:17 pm

Federal officials of Canada's immigration and refugee board (IRB) say the four-member crew of the migrant ship MV Sun Sea that arrived in Vancouver last August are alleged to be Tamil Tiger operatives and they pose a threat to national security, Toronto Sun reported yesterday.

The four crew members of the MV Sun Sea, a Thai cargo ship modified to accommodate people, are alleged to have helped organize the smuggling trip with 492 asylum seekers on board from Thailand to Vancouver Island in British Columbia in August 2010.

The Canadian Border Services Agency (CBSA) which says the men pose a threat to national security has reportedly requested hearings to determine whether the four members can stay in Canada.

The Toronto Sun reported that the men are currently being held in segregation at Fraser Regional Correctional Centre in B.C., where they have been questioned by the RCMP and border agents.

The Sun report quoting an immigration and refugee board (IRB) official said the hearings will take place this month or in February.

The IRB reportedly has ordered the release of at least 49 women and 157 men out of the 492 carried by the MV Sun Sea. All migrants on the MV Sun Sea have filed refugee claims.





An elderly woman was killed and her son seriously injured last Thursday (30) when a domestic gas cylinder exploded.

The deceased was identified as Sitthy Umma (72), a mother of 13 children. She sustained serious burn injuries. The blast had torn off the roof of her house in Muhandiram Lane, Keselwatte. This was revealed by a police officer, leading evidence at the inquest on Sunday by Additional City Coroner Ashroff Rummy.

The injured person identified as Mohamed Faumi and was admitted to the National Hospital.

Witness Abdul Nasser, a son of the deceased and three wheeler driver said that his mother who was eking out a living by preparing food, on the day of the incident around noon, had gone with his brother to the kitchen to make some tea.

The explosion had occurred when she lit the gas cooker. He had rushed his mother and brother to the National Hospital, where she succumbed to her injuries.

The Additional Coroner ordered police to produce eye witnesses and postponed further hearings for February 3.





Who will be invited – and where will they sit? The social event of 2011 will follow months of agonised deliberation, says Hugo Vickers

By Hugo Vickers

Prince William's wedding will be the most sought-after invitation of 2011. But neither the Prince of Wales nor the Middletons will be sending out the cards. This will be done by the Lord Chamberlain's Office, which will consult the young couple and look back in files to see which public figures should be invited, according to protocol.

Since Prince William will one day be King, the guest list is not entirely his prerogative. The Queen and the Prince of Wales will have a say, and certain government departments may be consulted, most particularly the Protocol Department of the Foreign Office. Lord and Lady Spencer, for instance, were allowed only 30 personal guests at St Paul's Cathedral in 1981.

Still, that won't stop the extreme lengths that some people will go to in order to secure an invitation – and the Lord Chamberlain's men will be ready for them. One ruse is to telephone: "I was at school with Prince William. I know he would want me to be there. Just wanted to make sure you have my present address..." When Sir John Johnston was Comptroller, he would respond: "But this is splendid news. You tell us you are a great friend of the couple. Ring them up! We look forward to being instructed to send you an invitation and hope to see you on the day!"

Lady Diana Cooper tried to get her rich French friend, Commandant Paul-Louis Weiller, invited to Prince Charles's wedding in 1981. She called Buckingham Palace and told them that he would give a generous donation to the National Gallery if given a good seat in St Paul's. This was greeted by the Palace's polite equivalent of the telephone being put down.

The diplomatic nightmare that is the guest list is the least of it; every wedding detail has to be resolved in advance – from dress codes to transport; street decorations to etiquette. In 1981, a special chair had to be built to support the enormous frame of the King of Tonga, reported to weigh 31 stone. The Lord Chamberlain's Office even had a regimental brusher-down on hand at St Paul's to deal with uniforms that did not pass muster on the day. Prince Andrew arrived at the cathedral looking as if he had been rolling on the floor with a labrador. He was whisked aside and the brush applied. Meanwhile, Lord Spencer wanted to wear a uniform, just as Prince Charles and Prince Philip did. Diana forbade it and instead he appeared in a grey morning coat.

Of course, plans for Prince William's wedding are secret, but they will not be dissimilar to what happened at Princess Alexandra's wedding to Angus Ogilvy in Westminster Abbey on April 24, 1963, which I discovered recently on an eye-opening trip to the National Archives.

Harold Macmillan was prime minister in 1963. As late as January, for political reasons and on account of the groom's Scottish family, he suddenly advanced the idea that the wedding might be held in Scotland. He was told that there had been "a great deal of family consultation" but that Princess Alexandra and her mother, the former Princess Marina of Greece and Denmark, had settled for London "because on these occasions the bride is generally married from her own home". But yes, a tour of Scotland was in the offing.

Through her mother, Princess Alexandra was related to most of the Royal Houses of Europe. Together, they personally invited more than 100 royal relations. In addition, Princess Alexandra had travelled widely before her marriage, including to Thailand, Cambodia, Japan and Burma, so besides royal relations and friends, she wanted to ask those who had entertained her on her foreign royal tours.

At this point, the Foreign Office got involved, copious memos passing between Sir Philip Hay, Princess Marina's Private Secretary, and the long-suffering Vice-Marshal of the Diplomatic Corps, Dugald Malcolm, a man adept at pouring diplomatic oil on troubled waters. Foreign Sovereigns had to be invited through Ambassadors. Princess Alexandra was on first-name terms with the Crown Prince and Princess of Japan, but wanted to ask Emperor Hirohito and Empress Nagako. Fortunately, they declined, as did the King of Libya and the King and Queen of Thailand. The latter suggested sending representatives but were dissuaded – this was a family, not a state, occasion.

Princess Alexandra did not want to invite King Hussein of Jordan, but would this be "widely noticed and resented"? No, it would not – he had not entertained her. Nor did Princess Marina want to invite King Baudouin and Queen Fabiola of the Belgians, as they were not particular friends. But they were due on a State Visit to Britain on 14 May. Soundings were taken, and the Belgian sovereigns said it was too close to their visit.

Every parent knows the problem of an important guest who does not answer. Princess Marina wrote personally to King Olav of Norway. The Queen was "anxious to know" if he was to attend since she was proposing to invite the more important guests to stay at Windsor Castle, where a ball would be held. Yet the King did not reply. Princess Marina then sent a telegram. No answer. Various diplomats even had a go. Finally, the King declared that he would reply direct to Princess Marina "in the first days of March". On March 13, he eventually accepted.

So far so good, but Cambodia was another matter. Princess Alexandra was not "terribly keen on inviting" Prince Sihanouk, but she had stayed with his parents in 1959 and he had played a considerable part in the entertainments laid on for her. As she was inviting General Ne Win, the Burmese Head of State, the Foreign Office felt that Sihanouk should be asked. The Foreign Secretary encouraged this, while Malcolm told Sir Philip Hay: "We would sympathise with the hope that he might be unable to come... "

This raised a further problem. Sihanouk had seven wives. Which would he bring? He spent most of his time avoiding the most senior consort, Suzanne, who had royal blood, greatly preferring Princess Monique. Hay told Malcolm: "Princess Alexandra will be very happy to invite Prince Sihanouk and, if you advise (as you clearly do) Princess Monique – of whom, incidentally, Princess Alexandra has no recollection whatever. Indeed, there were so many ladies around when we stayed in Cambodia that I don't believe anyone could have identified the principal consort."

On the advice of Peter Murray, the British Ambassador in Phnom Penh, a formal invitation was sent to "His Royal Highness Prince Norodom Sihanouk, Head of State of Cambodia, and Madame".

The problems didn't end there. Prince Sihanouk was keen to know if he would receive a guard of honour on arrival in Britain, or be received in private audience by the Queen. The Ambassador wondered if the Prince would "be expected to pay all his own expenses". Sir Philip stressed that no one should expect guards of honour, nor was it likely that he would be invited to stay at Windsor Castle – "I think Murray should be warned of this" – and that the expenses issue "should be well rubbed in".

Sihanouk was travelling in India and China and virtually impossible to contact. Kensington Palace had to wait from the end of February until April 2 to find out if he was coming. Eventually, he declined pleading visits from two heads of state (Singapore and China). General Ne Win of Burma also refused, unwilling to venture abroad until "after the rains".

Once the acceptances were in, a sheet was prepared for each royal guest, listing when they would arrive, who would meet them, who would take care of their transport and luggage, and where they would stay – be it Windsor Castle, a hotel, an embassy or with friends. This kept the Crown Equerry busy for many weeks. Malcolm duly listed them in order of precedence – sovereigns regnant (Norway), sovereign consorts (Greece, Denmark and Sweden), ci-devant sovereigns regnant (Italy), consorts of the same (Spain and Romania), Imperial Princes and Princesses and Royal Highnesses (in line to throne), the same (but not in line), and so on down through collateral royal highnesses, serene highnesses, highnesses and others.

The day before the wedding, there was a rehearsal in the Abbey at which Malcolm assisted in seating the trickier foreign royal guests.

Then there was the flagpole issue. For Princess Margaret's wedding in 1960, there had been banners with 'M's and 'A's. Poles would be going up in the Mall in advance of the Belgian State Visit. It would look odd, therefore, if they were bare on the wedding day. A solution was found – the poles would go up earlier and be adorned with alternating union flags and Commonwealth flags.





PremierPR the Public Relations (PR) agency with a difference launched its website recently to enhance its online presence.

The website – www.premierprsrilanka.com – is user friendly and simple to navigate, providing a profile of PremierPR including the services that it offers, portfolio of clients and their PR campaigns.

PremierPR was launched in 2006 and has been in existence for more than 5 years specializing in Public Relations which is a popular marketing tool in Integrated Marketing Communications (IMC). The company has the resources and expertise to deliver cutting-edge PR solutions in an ever-changing marketing environment.

The agency's cutting edge solutions in the PR sphere helps corporates to create awareness, stimulate sales, facilitate communication and build relationships between consumers and companies and brands through Marketing Public Relations (MPR). Public relations is unique in its great versatility, aptitude for drama and its capacity to break through the information clutter and capture attention and interest of the target market.

PremierPR is headed by Deepika Gunasekera – a reputed marketing communication consultant – who has hands-on experience spanning over 15 years in marketing, brand management, advertising and public relations in multinationals as well as Sri Lankan bluechip companies. She holds a degree in Mass Communication, Philosphy and French from the University of Kelaniya.

"Our forte is delivering PR solutions with precision, perfection and business acumen which is vital to portray a positive corporate and brand image. PR is the most credible source out of all marketing tools in the larger marketing paradigm of Integrated Marketing Communications (IMC)" said Deepika Gunasekera.

"Today, we are in an exciting era where the private sector will ignite the growth of the economy with the vision of H. E. the President and the Government. The foundation is already in place. Sri Lanka will achieve exceptional heights in development in 2011 and years to come. PremierPR is happy to be a part of it" she added.





According to former Prime Minister Rathnasiri Wickramanayaka, the government appears to have no effective plans. I think that there are plans but these are not effectively implemented or some plans are not effective. He cited the 'Api Wawamu Rata Nagamu' project as an example. That programme promotes the cultivation of crops but there is no effective plan to market the produce. The National Agricultural Policy, with 22 strategies was brought out in 2007. Subsequently, the programme titled "Api Wavamu Rata Nagamu" was launched. However, we still produce only about 60 per cent of our basic food requirements and import the balance at a cost of around 120 billion rupees annually. Even kurakkan and green gram, which can be easily cultivated locally, are imported at a cost of around Rs 25 and 10 million respectively, and we still talk of "Api Wavamu Rata Nagamu".

Some Sri Lankan economists are of the view that the average agricultural labour productivity is at a low level. This can be attributed to many factors which are beyond the control of the farmers. Among these are inadequate water supply, drought/floods, decreasing soil fertility due to soil degradation, lack of better crop varieties, pest damage etc. Added to this, is the ineffective implementation of plans. One of the objectives of the National Agricultural Policy was to enhance the income and living standards of the farming community. If this policy had been effectively implemented, it would have certainly increased the productivity of the agricultural labour in the country. .

Following a steep rise in wheat flour prices, people are being asked to increase consumption of rice and to reduce consumption of bread and other wheat flour based products. The recent floods in the country have affected the Maha crop to a considerable extent and it is likely that there will be a shortage of rice in 2011. It is imperative that the Ministry of Agriculture implement an effective plan to meet a possible rice shortage in the coming months. Many alternatives are available to meet the food/rice (calories) requirement of the people. Among these are cereals such as kurakkan and legumes such as green gram, black gram and pigeon pea, and root crops such as manioc, sweet potato and other yams. All these crops can be grown locally. Or like in the case of eggs and coconuts, will the Trade Ministry simply import rice?

The Ministry of Trade is going to construct the largest rice mill in Asia in Sri Lanka. A few years ago, when the late Kingsley Wickramaratne was the Minister of Trade he got a large rice mill constructed in Hambantota. This mill remains closed. This mill can be used to process paddy instead of constructing another rice mill.

Milk Production:

A few years ago Chairman of National Livestock Development Board, instead of implementing a plan to upgrade cattle in Sri Lanka by promoting an AI programme country wide, imported foetuses of improved cattle at a very high cost. This has not brought any appreciable increase in milk production in the country. Now, a minister is planning to import camels to increase the milk production in the country!

Ineffective Plans:

Some ministers come out with ineffective plans. There was a news paper article recently that the organic fertiliser manufacturing units were to be established in each district. Apparently the minister has not considered the cost of transporting the organic fertilisers and its application. Probably he is unaware that around four tons of organic fertilisers have to be applied if the nutrients in 100 kg of urea are to be supplied by organics.

The annual coconut production was 2.8 million during the period 1962-64 and even during the period 2000-2008 the average annual production is 2.7 million The extent under coconut has dwindled during the last decade Thus, the numerous plans/projects implemented during the last two decades to improve the coconut sector have not produced any positive results indicating that the plans to improve coconut production in the country were either ineffective or not implemented effectively.

Energy:

We spend a large sum of money on importing petroleum. The cost of importing petroleum in 2009 was around Rs. 300 billion. A high expenditure on petroleum will widen our annual trade deficit. In many other countries such as China, Thailand, Philippines etc. action has already been taken to reduce fuel/ power consumption and cut down on waste. If we reduce our energy consumption by 10%, it will result in a saving of at least Rs. 30 billion. However, the government has not taken any effective action to reduce fuel consumption in the country and produce bio-fuel which many countries are using in vehicles. An inter-ministerial committee report submitted on the use of bio-fuel in Sri Lanka a few months ago appears to be shelved. The present policies of the government with regard to vehicles imports will definitely increase the expenditure on fuel and the government will jack up fuel prices to cut down on losses causing COL to rise further.

As stated in the long-term generation expansion plan of the CEB, the share of hydropower is estimated to reduce from 40.2% in 2007 to 19.5% by 2020, while coal-fired thermal generation is estimated to reach 70.9% by 2020. Dendro power (power generated from bio-mass) and solar power are cheap sources of electricity but are not effectively used and not included in the long term plans of the CEB. Last year there was a proposal to sell electricity to India but now we are told that the electricity prices are going to be increased!

I think it is not only the ministers who are to be blamed for this sate of affairs. The secretaries, chairmen, heads of department et al who are involved in the development/ implementation of plans are also responsible.

It is high time the ministers took a realistic/critical look at the development plans of the government which is trying to make Sri Lanka Asia's Wonder.





The Media Ministry is offering scholarships to print and electronic media journalists. Those who have not already applied for the scholarships are requested to send their applications as soon as possible to the Media Ministry.

Media Minister Keheliya Rambukwella said that 75 journalists had been offered scholarships earlier.





Against a backdrop of increasing economic activity in all parts of the country, domestic airlines such as Deccan Aviation reports a significant increase in domestic flights to the North and East.

The company revealed that the average sector flying time is on the rise with more flights being taken to the East coast; Trincomalee, Pasikuda and Arugam Bay top the list of hot destinations. With over 180 established helipads in the country, helicopter charters are becoming an essential travel option to both business and leisure travellers.

"In this day and age, business travellers look for something extra, cruising at 160 km per hour with a range of 480km, helicopters allow guests to make multiple visits and return back the same day avoiding the stress associated with travelling by road and the extra cost of accommodation" said Denham Schokman CEO of Deccan Aviation Lanka.

Deccan has been the sole internal air option for both Leisure and corporate clients over the past 6 years operating to all parts of the country.

"Our guests get to land directly at their site, this is a utility unmatched by any plane, all we need is a 15 x 15 m obstruction free space, it could be a private property a municipal council/school ground or even a beach front"

The typical client profile can range from an investor team visiting a potential project site, real estate brokers hunting for property, a production company capturing footage to develop a documentary on Sri Lanka to leisure travellers seeking to indulge in some of the best beaches in the world. Typically, once they land, corporate guests tend to spend few hours on ground before they return back to Colombo, Deccan Aviation provides a complete end-to-end service from ground transportation to arranging local guides.

The company recently introduced a helicopter schedule service connecting the International airport with major tourist destinations in the south coast.

" We see a lot of opportunity to extend our schedule to the east coast especially during the season, definite plans are underway to induct a 8 seat fixed wing aircraft which is scheduled to be in Sri Lanka early 2011 in time for the season'.

The new service is set to completely disrupt the pricing of air travel, enabling passengers to fly within Sri Lanka at a cost less than travelling by road.





Country is getting ready to hold its first country-wide population census after a gap of 30 years, officials have said.

The last complete census was held in 1981 where residents of all 22 administrative districts across the country were counted. But subsequently, after the North East conflict broke out in 1983, only partial census could be held; in the last one held in 2001, the census could only be conducted in 18 districts where the impact of violence was limited.

In that census nine years ago, country's population stood around 20 million.

"Due to the problems in the country, conducting a census throughout the island was not possible. The 2001 census was conducted only in 18 districts," H R Gunasekera, a senior census and statistics department official told media.

The 2001 census left out the districts in the north and the east which were under the control of the LTTE till they were militarily defeated in May, 2009.

"We will do the census in three stages. Geographic demarcation of administrative units has already begun. In the second quarter of the year, the building census will begin. Enumeration of people would begin in the last quarter," Gunasekera said.





SYDNEY (AP) - Much has been made of Usman Khawaja's international debut, making him the first Muslim to play Test cricket for Australia.

Commentators have talked about the Pakistan-born batsman being a pioneer and a trailblazer for the next generation of cricketers in a country where the bulk of Test cricket recruits have come from Anglo-Saxon stock.

"Not really. It's probably being the first Pakistani-born to play for Australia is probably more (significant) than my religious beliefs, because they're quite personal to me," the stylish left-hander said. "You can make something up of anything."

He even made reference to left-arm spinner Michael Beer, who was also selected to make his debut in the fifth Ashes Test against England on Monday.

"You can say Michael Beer is the first person who sticks his tongue out 24-7 to play for Australia," Khawaja joked.

Khawaja's debut innings of 37 was memorable for its start. With Australia struggling at 55-1 after Phil Hughes' dismissal off the ball before lunch, he hit Chris Tremlett for two and pulled the England paceman for four with his first two deliveries in the international arena.

"As soon as I got out there, it just felt like the best thing ever. I was playing for Australia and the crowd was right behind me, so it was awesome."

He raced to 15 from eight deliveries, before settling into his role as a No. 3 batsman in Test cricket - something no other batsman on debut has done for Australia since Justin Langer in 1993.





A huge quantum of funds has been allocated from the Budget by President Mahinda Rajapakse for the upliftment of traditional industries and other village based small enterprises, said Weerakumara Dissanayake, Deputy Minister of Traditional Industries and Small Enterprise Development, when he opened the common service centres for kitul related products at the Neluwa Katukenda Village in Galle district and Walakada Village in Kalutara District recently.

He also said that Minister, Douglas Devananda was in the process of setting up 1,000 Industrial Villages island-wide for the upliftment of traditional industries such as, kitul, clay, coir and Palmayrah related industries.

Walakada Common Service Centre at Palindanuwara Divisional Secretariat Division has been put up at a cost of Rs. 24 million and has the capacity to boil 2,000 litres of Kitul Sap. Katukenda Common Service Culture at Neluwa Divisional Secretariat Division in Galle District has been set up at a cost of Rs. 56 million. Both these service centres are being managed by two co-operative societies set up for the very purpose.

The Deputy Minister presented all the 36 members of the Walakada Co-operative Society with safety kits and knives used for slicing kitul flowers.

He said that these 1,000 Industrial Villages, were set up under 'Rekiya Bihidora' Programme of 'Mahinda Chinthana' Vision for the future. Minister Devananda was very keen to take this programme forward for reaping desired benefits. He also said that his Ministry in future would provide modern equipment deemed necessary for the industry and that local as well as foreign markets would be found for their products. He also said that there are about 3 million Kitul palms in various part of the country and that steps would be taken to set up common service centres in other place too.

He added that a similar centre in the Kurunegala District too would be opened.

Secretary to the Ministry, Sivagnanasothy, said that the co-operative societies to which the peopalised common service centres were handed over that day, should act with vision and will, to take forward the industry to its desired level and this would entirely depend on the commitment and dedication of the individual members. Any support the Co-operative Societies needed could be obtained from the Industrial Development Board, he added.









Industry and Commerce Minister Rishard Bathuideen launched a detailed action plan last evening on the Rs. 1.2 billion Trade and Commerce Development agenda of the government for the year 2011. The detailed plan of work has clear achievement guidelines to ensure that implementation is well monitored on a monthly basis, the Industry and Commerce Ministry said in a statement.

All senior ministry officials were present together with key private sector personalities in business.

"As per the budget 2011, the overall emphasis is on the private sector development agenda and the pivotal role that the Ministry of Industry and Commerce has to play must be understood within these parameters," Bathuideen said.

The development of Industrial estates will be allocated with Rs.263 million, the export development initiatives Rs.450 million, Commerce ministry on trade development Rs.501 million, Textile development Rs.25 million, die and mould facilitation centers Rs. 45 million, leather and foot wear industry Rs.15 million to name a few, the ministry announced.





The government has taken steps to re-introduce all crops that had been cultivated n the North prior to the war.

Northern Province Governor Major General G. A. Chandrasiri said that the government was planning to cultivate another 40,000 acres of abandoned lands in 2011.

"We are planing to cultivate black gram on 19,786 acres across the five districts of the province and groundnuts on 7,231 acres, red onions on 4,709 acres, green chillies on 4,329 acres and cowpea on 4,729 acres," he said.

Maj. Gen. Chandrasiri said that the government had already started rehabilitating the irrigation systems damaged by the war.

The Maha Season is the main period for the farmers in the North and they cultivated 212,925 acres with the help of monsoonal rains. Between May and September, during the South West Monsoon, they cultivate only about 8,893 acres, Maj. Gen. Chandrasiri said.

Chandrasiri said that according to statistics, the extent of cultivated land in the province had increased by 60 per cent during the year 2010.





State Mortgage and Investment Bank's ratings affirmed with stable outlook

January 3, 2011, 7:10 pm

* NPLs higher than industry average

RAM Ratings Lanka has reaffirmed the respective long- and short-term financial institutions ratings of A and P1 for State Mortgage and Investment Bank (SMIB); the long-term rating has a stable outlook. The ratings are based on the Bank's strong capitalisation and the financial flexibility it derives from its sole shareholder, the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL). However, the ratings are moderated by SMIB's higher than industry level of non-performing loans (NPLs) and the substantial negative gap in its short-term asset-liability maturity mismatch (ALMM), the ratings agency said.

SMIB is a licensed specialised bank (LSB), created by the GOSL under the State Mortgage and Investment Bank Act No. 13 of 1975. SMIB comes under the purview of the Ministry of Finance and Planning (MOF). While the Bank is permitted, as per the Act, to provide loans for housing and agricultural purposes, its main role is as an institution that fulfils the GOSL's social obligations vis-a-vis facilitating home ownership for the masses.

RAM Ratings Lanka said: "Despite its conservative lending in the recent past, the Bank's NPLs have increased and remain significantly higher than its peers'. SMIB recorded a gross NPL ratio of 37.02% as at end-December 2009 (end-December 2008: 27.58%); this remained unchanged as at end-September 2010. The high NPL levels mainly stem from its EPF-backed lending portfolio, which accounted for about 48.75% of total its total loans as at end-September 2010.

"However, we note that SMIB bears no default risk for these loans as they are backed by the borrowers' EPF funds. Nevertheless, the Bank's NPL ratio on conventional mortgages remained weak at 14.81% as at end-September 2010 (industry: 10.14%). Its social obligation of lending to the low- and middle-income segments exerts downward pressure on the Bank's credit quality, due to its customers' weaker repayment ability.

"Notably, SMIB's focus on long tenured mortgage loans funded by its short term deposit base has rendered its ALMM position weak. While the negative gap in the Bank's ALMM had narrowed as at FY-Dec 2009, we expect the gap to widen again as it expands its loan book. Nonetheless, SMIB's liquidity issues are moderated by its strong deposit franchise (anchored by state support). Public deposits took up 79.89% of SMIB's total funding as at end-FY Dec 2009 (end-FY Dec 2008: 75.92%).

"Owing to its state ownership and its social agenda, SMIB derives financial flexibility from the GOSL. That said, RAM Ratings Lanka has accorded limited benefit to this financial flexibility given the Bank's restricted scope, i.e. its focus on housing loans and the fact that its role can be easily replicated by bigger and more systemically important state-backed financial institutions.

"SMIB's performance had strengthened during the period under review. The Bank recorded a net interest margin (NIM) of 4.44% for FY Dec 2009 (FY Dec 2008: 3.47%). This ameliorated further to 8.21% as at end-September 2010, as delinquent loans had not been re-priced downwards while deposit rates were reduced in line with market rates. Costs, however, had not increased in line with its NIM as the Bank had continued its operations with its existing 12 branches. Therefore, its Return on Assets (ROA) and return on equity (ROE) climbed up to 0.76% and 4.97%, respectively, as at end-FY Dec 2009 (end-FY Dec 2008: 0.40% and 2.18%). The ratios strengthened further to 3.89% and 24.94% as at end-September 2010.

"In tandem with its healthier profit showing, the Bank's internal rate of capital generation (IRCG) improved to 3.05% in FY Dec 2009 (FY Dec 2008: 1.74%), before advancing further to 13.50% as of end-September 2010. Meanwhile, SMIB's capital adequacy is deemed healthy as its risk-weighted capital-adequacy ratios (RWCARs) are well above the regulatory minimums. The Bank's tier-1 and overall RWCARs clocked in at 25.82% and 26.51%, respectively, as at end-September 2010," RAM Ratings Lanka said.





At the climate change conference in Cancun, Mexico, they agreed to create a Green Climate Fund, which will mobilize and administer up to $100 billion a year by 2020. The Cancun meeting achieved surprisingly concrete progress, including an agreement to help preserve tropical forests. To me, at least it's a good building block for "Durban" the site of next year's conference.

REDD Funds

The fund will be run by the U.N. — not the World Bank — under the supervision of a board with "equal representation" from developed and developing countries. The fund would include technology transfer to help develop economies,a carbon-intensive development path. The Kyoto Protocol's Clean Development Mechanism will be strengthened to channel investments and technology into green emission reduction projects in the developing world.

The deforestation framework is now popularly known as "REDD+". This stands for Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation. The "+" was recently added to denote broader ecosystem conservation. It creates incentives to keep forests standing and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Its supporters say it will help to slow climate change.REDD+ is a carbon offset program: developed countries with high emissions can pay to protect forests in developing, usually tropical nations like Sri Lanka.The experts say deforestation accounts for roughly 20 percent of the world's emissions. "We can use forests to accumulate carbon, and that we can generate incentives that will especially benefit forest dwellers," said an expert on this subject.

How do we, the Sri Lankan economy, get benefitted out of this? What are our policy guidelines on forestation and do we have shared understanding about these matters? Are we, both the Government institutions as well as the Private sector, implementing the agreed policy frame work efficiently & effectively to achieve our ultimate goal of sustainable development? Are we on top of this new initiative to receive benefits?

Let us consider one important sub sector for the time being- the forest plantations coming under more organized "Privatized Tea plantations"- in the Central province of Sri Lanka.

Agro Forestry Models

Since 1860's tea has replaced coffee as a mono crop in many parts including some land with high sloping gradients. One can argue the degradation of certain tea lands was due to inadequate attention to environmental concern for sustainable development. The area of natural forests has also declined drastically during the last 100 years. With the decline of the natural forest, the alternatives for meeting the needs for timber and fuel wood are from trees grown on non-forest land and on tea plantations.

The organic carbon content (organic matter) of soil decreases fast after harvesting the crop. Unless the soil is kept covered by some means, the top soil continues to get eroded and productivity decreases. Studies have established the relation between topsoil depth and yield. Soil organic matter content considerably improves the structures and water holding capacity. Hence soil with high organic matter content will reduce the amount of run-off water and there- by reduce erosion. There are instances where higher productivity of tea has been achieved through nutrient ply from organic sources even without applying artificial fertilizer. Planting short rotation coppicing trees like caliandra, a shade tree in tea estates, along with high valued timber trees such as eucalyptus trees, in marginal tea lands would enhance the soil organic matter.

Crop diversification on degraded tea land undertaken by Plantation companies is one example of a strategy to 'integrate environmental concerns into the development process. This type of crop diversification is encouraged especially in degraded tea land as well as land with high sloping gradients. Agro Forestry is another method adopted by plantation companies. The tree crops bind the soil and prevent adverse environmental impacts through soil erosion.Agro Forestry could be simply defined as integrating agriculture, forestry and or animal production into a synergistic system. It has now become necessary to introduce improved agro-forestry systems to the plantation sector. The new agro-forestry model will among others: (a) Minimize the negative effects (b) Improve productivity of system (c) Improve bio-diversity eco system.

Mahinda Chintana

H E the President, in presenting the "Mahinda Chintana" policy document (the chapter pertaining to plantations) refers to the need to focus investments enhancing bio- diversity in tea plantations. This is a step in the right direction. But are we on top of the situation? "Biological Diversity" means the variability among living organisms from all sources. Biological diversity is often considered in terms of diversity of species and eco-systems. This could be achieved only through an integrated field development strategy by adopting a suitable agro-forestry model as opposed to following a mere tea replanting model. Nevertheless, tea replanting plays a significant role in the overall field development strategy. The necessity of planting forestations in marginal tea estates should be viewed in that perspective. It goes without saying that harvesting and reforestation should go hand in hand, from commercial perspective.

As can be seen from the above, the suggested agro-forestry model in marginal tea plantations is in-fact environmental friendly and leads to bio-diversity. The economic viability & financial feasibilities are also greater in any agro-forestry model as opposed to undertaking a mere replanting of tea in marginal tea lands. However, it is vital that the harvesting of the trees that had been planted should be permitted at the right time in order to make this a commercially viable project.Otherwise it will create dis-incentive for those who are already involved in the forestation programmes.

Correction Process

We have to ask ourselves pertinent questions. Are we in the right path? Not in the policy document only, but in actual practice also. Why aren'tthe policy makers allowing the Plantation companies to undertake implementation of the Forestry Management Master Plan in keeping with the overall vision? From the above, it seems that recently announced implementation guidelines are not in line with Mahinda Chintana policy. It is, therefore expedient to review the directive issued recently temporarily prohibiting felling of eucalyptus trees in the tea plantations under the approved forestry management programme. What is important is for us to change our behavioral pattern and perceptions about man- made forest plantations and consider this as a means of protecting our natural forests. Sri Lanka would be one of the beneficiaries of carbon credits stemming from those new forest plantationsout of the green climate fund suggested by Cancun summit if we collectively work towards achieving our goals originally set. Apart from this substantial financial benefit that we would expect from this international fund, there issurprisingly another tangible benefit by practicing the agro-forestry model that I have outlined above. The real beneficiary would be non- other than the "degraded soil" itselfin the up country tea plantations.





SriLankan Airlines 'Hotseats' campaign wins Effie Award

January 3, 2011, 7:39 pm

SriLankan Airlines won the Travel & Tourism category at the recent Effie Awards for its 'Hotseats' marketing campaign, the latest accolade received by the National Carrier.

SriLankan received a Bronze for the campaign, which was produced by Grant McCann Erickson. It was the highest award presented in the Travel & Tourism category, and one of just 16 awards - 5 Silvers and 11 Bronzes - presented at the Effies ceremony at the Waters' Edge, from among nearly 100 entries. There were no Golds presented.

SriLankan's Manager Marketing Communications, Priya Epitawala, said: "Winning an Effie Award is very special because Effies are given for efficiency in communication, which we at SriLankan take pride in doing well. The campaign made a considerable impact in creating public awareness of the Hotseats product, and resulted in a significant positive effect on sales. The team from SriLankan and Grant McCann Erickson fully deserves this win."

SriLankan has in recent months won a series of international and national awards in fields ranging from passenger transport to marketing and IT. They include the Presidential Award for Airline of the Year; the Presidential Award for Outbound Tour Operator of the Year; First Runner-up in Global Breakthrough Business Intelligence Initiatives at the CIMA Global Awards; Top Airline by Growth in South Asia from Singapore's Changi Airport; Foreign Carrier of the Year for South Asia for the fifth consecutive time at the Kuala Lumpur International Airport Awards; Platinum Award from the International Air Transport Association (IATA) as one of the first airlines in the world to introduce a major innovation to tickets; and a Merit Award at the National Best Quality Software Awards 2010 (NBQSA).

SriLankan's advertising campaigns are regular winners at national competitions such as the Chillies and SLIM Awards, and have won several international accolades as well.

Hotseats was a new product that was introduced at the time to provide rock-bottom fares to a different city every month, and was available only through Internet bookings on the airline's website www.srilankan.aero. The marketing campaign adopted a 360-degree communications strategy in positioning and communicating, using press, radio, TV, and outdoor advertising. A particular area of focus was the web, including social media sites,

The Effie Awards were founded in 1968 by the New York Chapter of the American Marketing Association, as an awards programme to recognize the most effective advertising efforts in the United States each year. The first Effie Awards Sri Lanka was held in 2008 jointly by the Sri Lanka Institute of Marketing and the 4A's association of advertising.





Under-19 School Cricket Thattil shines as Seba collapse for 56

January 3, 2011, 10:32 pm

by Reemus Fernando

All-rounder Roscoe Thattil scored 122 runs in 123 balls (14x4s, 1x6s, 2x5s) for St. Joseph's College to post 215 runs after impressing with a four wicket haul to skittle out St. Sebastian's College for 56 runs on the first day of their Under-19 Inter-School cricket match which commenced at Moratuwa yesterday.

Off-spinner Shiven Perera made his First XI debut for S. Thomas' College a memorable one picking up three wickets in four balls to trouble Maliyadeva College, who later recovered to post 97 for three wickets in reply to Thomians' 236 runs on the first day of their Under-19 match which started at Kurunegala yesterday.

Trinity College made 272 for six wickets at close after restricting Wesley College to 147 runs as Niroshan Dikwella scored 114 runs in 81 balls (16x4s, 1x6s) on the first day of their Under-19 match which commenced at Campbell Park yesterday.

Put to bat St. Benedict's College posted 383 for nine wickets declared as Rukshan Weerasinghe and Eranga Ratnayake put on a fifth wicket stand of 150 runs on the first day of their Under-19 encounter which commenced at Kotahena yesterday.





The U.S. economy appears to be coming apart at the seams. Unemployment remains at nearly ten percent, the highest level in almost 30 years; foreclosures have forced millions of Americans out of their homes; and real incomes have fallen faster and further than at any time since the Great Depression. Many of those laid off fear that the jobs they have lost — the secure, often unionized, industrial jobs that provided wealth, security, and opportunity — will never return. They are probably right.

And yet a curious thing has happened in the midst of all this misery. The wealthiest Americans, among them presumably the very titans of global finance whose misadventures brought about the financial meltdown, got richer. And not just a little bit richer; a lot richer. In 2009, the average income of the top five percent of earners went up, while on average everyone else's income went down. This was not an anomaly but rather a continuation of a 40-year trend of ballooning incomes at the very top and stagnant incomes in the middle and at the bottom. The share of total income going to the top one percent has increased from roughly eight percent in the 1960s to more than 20 percent today.

This is what the political scientists Jacob Hacker and Paul Pierson call the "winner-take-all economy." It is not a picture of a healthy society. Such a level of economic inequality, not seen in the United States since the eve of the Great Depression, bespeaks a political economy in which the financial rewards are increasingly concentrated among a tiny elite and whose risks are borne by an increasingly exposed and unprotected middle class. Income inequality in the United States is higher than in any other advanced industrial democracy and by conventional measures comparable to that in countries such as Ghana, Nicaragua, and Turkmenistan. It breeds political polarization, mistrust, and resentment between the haves and the have-nots and tends to distort the workings of a democratic political system in which money increasingly confers political voice and power.

It is generally presumed that economic forces alone are responsible for this astonishing concentration of wealth. Technological changes, particularly the information revolution, have transformed the economy, making workers more productive and placing a premium on intellectual, rather than manual, labor. Simultaneously, the rise of global markets — itself accelerated by information technology — has hollowed out the once dominant U.S. manufacturing sector and reoriented the U.S. economy toward the service sector. The service economy also rewards the educated, with high-paying professional jobs in finance, health care, and information technology. At the low end, however, jobs in the service economy are concentrated in retail sales and entertainment, where salaries are low, unions are weak, and workers are expendable.

Champions of globalization portray these developments as the natural consequences of market forces, which they believe are not only benevolent (because they increase aggregate wealth through trade and make all kinds of goods cheaper to consume) but also unstoppable. Skeptics of globalization, on the other hand, emphasize the distributional consequences of these trends, which tend to confer tremendous benefits on a highly educated and highly skilled elite while leaving other workers behind. But neither side in this debate has bothered to question Washington's primary role in creating the growing inequality in the United States.

It's the government, stupid...

Hacker and Pierson refreshingly break free from the conceit that skyrocketing inequality is a natural consequence of market forces and argue instead that it is the result of public policies that have concentrated and amplified the effects of the economic transformation and directed its gains exclusively toward the wealthy. Since the late 1970s, a number of important policy changes have tilted the economic playing field toward the rich. Congress has cut tax rates on high incomes repeatedly and has relaxed the tax treatment of capital gains and other investment income, resulting in windfall profits for the wealthiest Americans.

Labor policies have made it harder for unions to organize workers and provide a countervailing force to the growing power of business; corporate governance policies have enabled corporations to lavish extravagant pay on their top executives regardless of their companies' performance; and the deregulation of financial markets has allowed banks and other financial institutions to create ever more Byzantine financial instruments that further enrich wealthy managers and investors while exposing homeowners and pensioners to ruinous risks.

In some cases, these policy changes originated on Capitol Hill: the Ronald Reagan and George W. Bush tax cuts, for example, and the 1999 repeal of the Glass-Steagall Act, a repeal that dismantled the firewall between banks and investment companies and allowed the creation of powerful and reckless financial behemoths such as Citigroup, were approved by Congress, generally with bipartisan support. However, other policy shifts occurred gradually and imperceptibly.

Hacker and Pierson's second important point is that major policy shifts do not always happen in such obvious ways. Many of the policies that have facilitated the winner-take-all economy have just as often come about as a result of what Hacker and Pierson call "drift," which occurs when an enacted policy fails to keep up with changing circumstances and then falls short of, or even subverts, its intended goal. The American system of separated powers — with its convoluted procedures and bizarre rules, such as vetoes and the filibuster — is especially conducive to drift, particularly compared to more streamlined parliamentary systems in other countries that afford majorities relatively unimpeded dominance over the policymaking process. Policies in the United States, once made, tend to be hard to overturn or even to modify.

Sometimes drift occurs through simple neglect or inertia. An example is the phenomenon known as "bracket creep," the process by which prior to the indexing introduced in 1981, inflation pushed incomes into higher tax brackets. But Hacker and Pierson particularly zero in on instances of intentional policy drift, when policymakers deliberately sidestepped or resisted available policy alternatives that might have reduced inequality. Allowing corporate executives to be compensated with stock options is one such case; stock-option compensation tends to bend incentives toward the short-term maximization of share prices rather than planning for long-term growth. Consequently, such compensation has allowed top managers to capture jaw-dropping gains despite their companies' often dismal performances. The long-term cost of corporate failure is borne not by CEOs and their executive minions, of course, but by rank-and-file employees, who get laid off when companies need to cut costs and whose pension investments are wiped out when companies' stocks sink.

In the 1990s, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, which regulates accounting practices, noticed this practice, correctly predicted the damage it would do to the economy, and then sought to curtail it. But Congress, spurred on by the lobbying efforts of major corporations, stopped the FASB in its tracks. As a result, Americans spent the 1990s and the first decade of this century living under 1970s accounting rules, which allowed top executives to more or less help themselves and, through the mutual back-scratching habits of corporate boards, help one another.

Similarly, labor law has failed to keep up with the times. Policymakers have repeatedly failed to enact reforms that would have accommodated new union-organizing techniques and empowered unions to counter the growing power of business to resist labor's demands. In this realm, the United States is running a twenty-first-century economy under 1940s rules. A clearheaded understanding of the power of drift in policymaking puts the Republican congressional minority during President Barack Obama's first two years in a fresh light. Obsessive obstructionism is not just a symptom of general crabbiness; it is a shrewd and sensible part of a larger strategy to enrich corporations while gutting long-standing protections for the middle class.

The dramatic growth of inequality, then, is the result not of the "natural" workings of the market but of four decades' worth of deliberate political choices. Hacker and Pierson amass a great deal of evidence for this proposition, which leads them to the crux of their argument: that not just the U.S. economy but also the entire U.S. political system has devolved into a winner-take-all sport. They portray American politics not as a democratic game of majority rule but rather as a field of "organized combat" — a struggle to the death among competing organized groups seeking to influence the policymaking process. Moreover, they suggest, business and the wealthy have all but vanquished the middle class and have thus been able to dominate policymaking for the better part of 40 years with little opposition.

The business backlash...

In pursuing this argument, Hacker and Pierson revive the old academic tradition of pluralism to shine a bright light on some of the pathologies of American politics. The contemporary study of American politics emerged from pluralism, the post-World War II view that in the shadow of the two totalitarianisms of midcentury Europe — communism and fascism — democracy could be rendered stable and progressive through a politics of mutual accommodation among relatively evenly matched groups. Rather than titanic conflict between workers and capitalists, so the argument went, pluralist democracy would produce solid incremental policy changes that would inch American society forward toward security and affluence. The dramatic and decidedly nonincremental events of the 1960s and 1970s — the civil rights movement, the Vietnam War, and broader cultural upheaval — punctured this view.

Critics of pluralism began to note its limitations, emphasizing the primacy of individual motivations rather than group affiliations. Since then, the study of American politics has largely turned away from questions of organized interests and their role in policymaking and has focused instead on the ways in which individual attitudes and behavior combine to produce policy. Yet if one assumes that people vote based on their economic interests and that election outcomes influence policy through something like majority rule, how can one account for a generation of policies that promoted the interests of the wealthy few at the direct expense of everybody else?

Another critique of pluralism is that it underestimated the lopsidedness of political organization. As the great political scientist E. E. Schattschneider wrote in 1960, "The flaw in the pluralist heaven is that the heavenly chorus sings with a strong upper-class accent." Schattschneider, it turned out, did not know the half of it. To most observers, the 1960s seemed the height of American liberalism, and the decade's policy developments — upgrading the basic New Deal package of social protection and labor rights to include extensive protection of civil rights and civil liberties and additional benefits such as limited health insurance — seemed to bear out this view. But to business elites, the 1960s marked the nadir of their influence in American society, and they did not react passively. The era saw the stirrings of a conservative counterrevolution marked by ideological, political, and organizational developments, and particularly by the political awakening of business.

American conservatives, increasingly empowered by effective organization and lavish funding from their patrons in the business community, began to actively resist the politics of pluralist accommodation. Rather than accepting the basic contours of the New Deal and the Great Society and seeking to adjust them step by incremental step, conservatives assumed a newly confrontational posture and turned their efforts toward dismantling the legacies of Franklin Roosevelt and Lyndon Johnson.

The economic crisis of the 1970s, which heralded the end of a generation of U.S. economic dominance, helped their cause by laying bare the limitations of the New Deal order. The country's economic and social policy regime — which relied heavily on the private provision of important social protections, such as pensions and health insurance — may have been adequate for a globally dominant industrial economy that generated 30 years of widely shared growth and stable employment for millions of industrial workers. But in the 1970s, it began to prove thoroughly inadequate for an era of globalization, deindustrialization, and economic dislocation, as displaced workers found themselves unable to rely on the government for economic protection. This, in Hacker and Pierson's parlance, was policy drift on a massive scale.

Ascendant conservatives seized on this state of affairs to argue that the whole New Deal edifice of social protection, financial regulation, progressive taxation, and civil rights should be dismantled rather than reinforced. Beginning with the Carter administration, the expanding business lobby successfully defeated proposal after reform proposal and aggressively promoted an opening round of tax cuts and deregulation — mere down payments on the frenzy to come.

Curing the disease...

If there is a flaw in their telling of this grim tale, it is that Hacker and Pierson perhaps underestimate the actual discontent of the American middle class over the period they discuss. In the 1960s and 1970s, Americans came increasingly to distrust their government, and not without reason. Their leaders had led them into a distant war that proved unwinnable and tore the country apart; a criminally corrupt president was exposed and forced to resign; cities were going up in flames, exposing the deep racial rift that remained in American society despite the triumphs of the civil rights movement. Democrats and Republicans began to diverge on racial issues. The Republicans became the party not only of the wealthy but also of the whites (no Democrat since Johnson has received a majority of the white vote in a presidential election).

Even in the age of Obama, racial inequality remains an acute and intractable problem, and the forces of racial resentment, mingled with legitimate discontent over the government's abandonment of the middle class, infect American politics down to the present day (as the Tea Party movement's more lurid fulminations suggest). So by the late 1970s, dissatisfaction with the state of the government, politics, and policy was rampant across the board, among the wealthy and the middle class alike, and the conditions were ripe for a turn against the political status quo. Conservatives, on behalf of the wealthy, were ready with ideas and organization to seize the moment. Progressives and the middle class were not, and so began the spiral toward the winner-take-all game that Hacker and Pierson describe.

Like many social critics, Hacker and Pierson are long on diagnosis and rather short on treatment. Not surprisingly, they emphasize rebuilding the organizational capacity of the middle and working classes as the place to start repairing the infrastructure of American politics, neither a terribly precise prescription nor a route to a quick cure. But if they are right — and theirs is a compelling case — the task of restoring some sense of proportion and balance to the winner-take-all political economy is essential if the American body politic is to recover from its current diseased condition.





The importance of forgiveness, reconciliation and renewal were recurring themes at religious services on New Year's Day. It is unlikely that those sermons by religious clergy and prayers of the faithful were motivated by considerations of national politics alone. It is more likely that these religious sentiments reflected the wisdom that has come down through the ages to make human life on Earth more sustainable and bearable. There is a reason why religious scriptures give the message that even a human being who has murdered 999 others can be redeemed and that societies that ethnically cleansed others can be a chosen people.

The values of forgiveness, reconciliation and renewal are important and necessary to Sri Lanka today. The end of the war has not ended the separation between the different communities, nor the demonization of one group by another. On the top of the list of enemies of the government, and by implication the majority population, is the Tamil Diaspora. This community showed their continuing support for the LTTE in London during the recent protests against President Mahinda Rajapaksa's visit. The manner in which they prevented the President from delivering his lecture at Oxford University was a manifestation of hatred, the cycle of which never ceases by hatred alone.

The Tamil Diapora is not an alien community. Nor are their sentiments alien to those who remain in Sri Lanka and who imbibe of those same sentiments even if in opposition to them. Most of the members of the Tamil Diaspora were born in Sri Lanka, although there are now second and third generation members amongst them. They continue to have their close relatives living in Sri Lanka whom they are in close contact with, and to whom they have a commitment to support financially and politically whatever the price they have to pay. Hatred is not the only manifestation of their lives, but devotion to the relatives and community they left behind is also.

Toronto Experience

A few months ago I was invited, together with Dr. Paikiasothy Saravanamuttu, to speak to a group of Sri Lankan Diaspora youth in Toronto, which has the largest population of Sri Lankan Tamils living outside Sri Lanka. Most of the youth who came for the seminar which was organized by the Mosaic Institute, a Canadian NGO, were second generation Sri Lanka Tamils, but over a third of the students present there were Sinhalese and Muslim youth. The event itself was organized at a university, which can be hotbeds of protest, as Sri Lanka's own experience and the Oxford fiasco have shown.

The coming together of Tamil, Sinhalese and Muslim youth in one space to talk about the post war situation in Sri Lanka might have seemed a recipe for confrontation. But nothing of the sort happened. Instead there was a serious session of questions and answers in which the complexities of the Sri Lankan situation were aired. The peaceful conduct of the seminar showed that there are methods and manners of speech that can generate either hatred, or forgiveness, reconciliation or confrontation and renewal or rejection with regard to the Tamil Diaspora.

As is the case with any community, the Tamil Diaspora is not homogeneous, monolithic or of one mind. They, too, are a plural community, which is why there are at least three main groups amongst them. There are within it those whose hardness of heart is extreme. But they are a relatively small minority. It is the same in Sri Lanka, whether in regard to those who belong to the majority community or to the ethnic minorities. Most Sri Lankans, on the other hand, are fair minded people with a liberal ethos, and this applies irrespective of whether they are Sinhalese, Tamil, Muslim or Burgher.

In the coming year one of the most important tasks for the Sri Lankan government will be to engage with the Tamil Diaspora and make them partners. It is not sensible to think that they can be ignored or silenced through the government's counter propaganda. Even though they live far from Sri Lanka, modern technology gives them a virtual presence in Sri Lanka. They can influence the thinking of the Sri Lankan Tamil people with their opinions and financial power, and through their remittances to their loved ones back home. Due to the contacts and networks in their adopted lands, built over the course of decades, they are able to influence opinion leaders, politicians and media in those countries either to the detriment or advantage of Sri Lanka.

Engaging positively with the Tamil Diaspora is also very important for two further reasons. One of these is the economic reason. At the present time the government is trying very hard to develop the economy as it holds to the belief that economic development holds the key to the country's future as a united and prosperous country. However, the foreign investments that could supplement the government's own investments are still slow in coming. The anticipated Tamil Diaspora investments in the Sri Lankan stock market, property market and in business ventures have still not materialized. If even a part of this wealth is invested in Sri Lanka, it could give a boost to the foreign investment process.

Another reason for the government to positively engage with the Tamil Diaspora is to ease the pressure on it due to war crimes allegations. The Sri Lankan government together with a wide cross section of society is indignant at the double standards of some countries and organizations in pressing so single-mindedly for war crimes inquiries against Sri Lanka. Other recent wars have seen even greater atrocities and loss of life. The decision to fight a war is invariably a decision to violate human rights of some for the sake of the greater good of others. Sri Lankan leaders do not accept being held to a higher standard of accountability than those leaders of other countries who have made this choice of war.

No make-believe

In recent times the government has tried to make its case stronger in the international community by hiring top class international advertising companies. It has invested heavily in media, advertising and lobbying campaigns. It might be possible for these advertising companies to paint a better picture of Sri Lanka than might otherwise be painted. They have professional skills of a high order. It might also be possible to convince sections of the international community that the picture painted by an international advertising company is indeed the correct picture.

However, engaging positively with the Tamil Diaspora calls for a different approach. This is because the Tamil Diaspora is intimately linked to Sri Lankan reality through their relatives who continue to live in Sri Lanka and to experience life at first hand. No amount of gloss put on by an international advertising company can change the reality encountered by Sri Lankan Tamils living within Sri Lanka. Therefore, the first important step in engaging with the Tamil Diaspora is for the government to win the hearts and minds of the Tamil people living in Sri Lanka. If that is done, the avenues to engage successfully with the Tamil Diaspora will open up in many different ways.

At the present time, large sections of the Tamil Diaspora are totally alienated from Sri Lanka and are opposed to the government. They see it as a government dedicated to promoting the best interests of the ethnic Sinhalese majority alone, and not caring about the fate of the ethnic minorities. The recent controversy over the government decision to have the national anthem sung in the Sinhala language only and not in the Tamil language, even in Tamil-majority areas has convinced them, along with Tamil speakers in Sri Lanka, that the government does not see Sri Lanka as a multi ethnic country in which the ethnic minorities will have their due place. Many of them may see the way forward as being to topple or punish the government. But this will give rise to another vicious cycle. This is the eternal law.

The New Year must be one in which the legacy of war is put behind. Unfortunately although more than a year and a half has passed the old signposts of war still remain on the roads to the North and East, and in the form of rule by emergency laws. These restrict freedoms of people and their willingness to speak up and be critical. The government publicises that all is well in the North and East and that people are leading improved lives, pointing to new roads, bridges and buildings. But people are afraid to say what they feel, and the recent spate of killings in Jaffna has re-ignited old fears in their hearts. This is not good for the government or the people. Seeking to live in a world of make-believe, and persuading others to do so, without dealing with the burning problems that exist on the ground and in the hearts and minds of people, is not for the New Year.





The ministry has already taken steps to separate remand prisoners and convicts.

A new prison complex will be opened in Pallekele to reduce the congestion in Bogambara prison. The ministry is also planning to transfer some of the inmates of the Welikada Remand Prison to Mahara and Watareka while the convicts would be taken to Wellawaya, where a 1,000-acre prison will be constructed with Chinese aid. Then, the convicts would be further separated depending on the nature of the offences.

Under these reforms the remand prisoners will be permitted to associate with their families and lawyers closely.

Inmates serving sentences for drug related offences would be transferred to separate treatment centres at Weeravila, Badulla and Kurunegala, Kodippili said. The treatment centre at Weeravila would be opened in mid January 2011.

Under the reforms, the female convicts with children under five years are to be kept separately at Kalutara. The complex which is to be opened soon will house nearly 60 convicted female inmates.

"Once the children reach the age of five they will be handed over to the relatives or the National Child Protection Authority," Kodippili said.

The ministry also plans to upgrade the infrastructure of the prisons.

"The prison infrastructure, especially the sanitary facilities will be upgraded and under the project Equal Access to Justice by the UNDP, the kitchens of the prisons will be improved," he said.

The proposed projects had been affected by lack of funds and the government had promised funds in mid 2011, Kodippili said.





