NDB spices-up Sri Lankan Cinnamon industry

As part of its continued efforts to enable local industry, NDB recently carried out a special programme to empower the Cinnamon growers, exporters and Cinnamon related product manufacturers.

To create national consensus towards developing regional players in the Cinnamon industry, NDB teamed up with the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce, The Spices & Allied Products Producers' & Traders' Association (SAPPTA) and the Galle District Chamber of Commerce to conduct a workshop for small and medium sector growers and exporters in Galle. Speaking at the event, Chief Operating Officer of NDB Indrajit Wickramasinghe said, "As a Bank dedicated towards national development, NDB has continuously placed special emphasis on the export sector as well as regional economic development which we believe is vital for propelling the national economy towards its growth targets. Thus regional business forums such as this are significant in their contribution to this end given its importance to the national economy. The objective of this forum is to facilitate a dialogue between the key players in the industry of the region and several well-known industry specialists and professionals; to share best practices and related insight for further development of the industry. NDB and CCC place a lot of weight on the development of regional industry and we hope to conduct more programmes of this nature in time to come."

S H S Mahagama, Deputy Director of Sri Lanka Standards Institute addressed the gathering and educated them on the new mandatory SLS standards for Cinnamon SLS 81 while Sarada De Silva, Chairman of SAPPTA and Spice Council introduced the services available through the spice council to the stakeholders of the crop that were represented at the forum.

Given its deep roots in SME Banking, NDB firmly believes that SMEs form the backbone of the country's economy. With a rich heritage in SME financing, NDB is fully geared and committed to help this sector to maximise the opportunities in the market. Therefore, in addition to SME lending, the Bank has initiated programmes such as this workshop to enhance the knowledge and skills of regional entrepreneurs to help them overcome the emerging challenges when conducting business. In a challenging business environment, NDB believes in continuous support to the SME sector by way of advisory, drawing out expertise from within NDB and the industry to empower SME entrepreneurs.

NDB is one of the fastest growing banks in the country with NDB Group having regional operations in Maldives and Bangladesh. The Bank offers a wide range of commercial banking services through its growing island-wide branch network open for extended hours until six pm, catering to an increasing customer base from all walks of life. Through the combined synergies of the diverse constituents of the NDB Group, its customers have access to a full range of banking and financial services; including project finance, corporate banking, SME lending, retail banking, investment banking, stockbroking and wealth management making NDB a truly Universal Bank.





CSE remains an attractive avenue for investment and emerges as a top performer among Regional Stock Markets

January 1, 2014, 7:23 pm

The Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) during 2013 provided an attractive prospect for investment with a 4.78 per-cent increase in the All Share Price Index (ASPI) and a 5.79 per-cent yield on the S&P SL20 Index (S&P 20). The ASPI indicated the most notable increase in comparison to previous years, where 2012 and 2011 exhibited negative percentage changes of (-7.1) per-cent and (- 8.5) per-cent respectively.

Bank interest rates decreased during the course of the year, following a directive by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka to tighten monetary policy; interest rates (Average Weighted Fixed Deposit Rate) have dropped from 13.21 per-cent on 31st December 2012 to 11.96 per-cent as at 29th November 2013.

The market witnessed certain selected stocks performing exceptionally, providing high yields to investors who diversified their investments over a range of equities. A total of 57 companies have given a total return in excess of 15 per-cent year on year for 2013 (with 26 companies giving a return above 30 per-cent and 31 companies giving a return between 15 to 30 per-cent).

The year also saw a total of Rs.119.4 Billion capital being raised through the stock market, with Corporate Debt amounted to Rs.68.3 Billion. The total capital raised during the year surpassed that of the previous year which closed at Rs.29.58 Billion.

The CSE continued to attract foreign investors with a net foreign inflow of Rs.34.1 Billion (excluding the net flow for corporate debt), building on the net foreign inflow of 2012 at Rs.40.3 Billion.

This was supported by Sri Lanka's higher positioning in regional capital markets, being one of the top performers within the region ahead of the Singapore Stock Exchange, the Bombay Stock Exchange and the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.

Capitalizing on the attractiveness of the market, the CSE in association with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) will host a Foreign Investor Forum in Singapore on the 20th and 21st of January 2014 to attract foreign institutional investors. A series of local and foreign investor forums are planned for the coming months, to reach out to international intuitional and high net worth investors, as well as local investors.

In a bid to encourage local investors and better educate existing investors the CSE has conducted a number of investor education programs throughout the island and will continue to educate the public on the various opportunities for investment available in the Sri Lankan Capital Market.





Victims give evidence in Wathupitiwela train tragedy

January 1, 2014, 8:30 pm

By R.H.K. Radalugoda Maottunna Corr.

Matara-Kilinochchi train which caughrt fire, at the Wandurawa station

A survivor of the train engine and compartment fire at the Wandurawa railway station giving evidence said her father had sent her to a safer place and stayed with her mother who alighted from the train. Suddenly a train sped past them without even blowing the horn. Thereafter she saw her parents in a pool of blood. They died after admission to hospital later.

"Father helped me down from the train and asked me to stay away from the track. Thereafter as my father and mother walked towards me, a train came . I kept off the track. As the train sped past, people started shouting loudly. Then I looked for my father and mother. I found them bleeding profusely in the adjoining paddy field.

So said Fathima Madamima Madali (17) at the inquest held by R.K. Gunatilake, Inquirer into Sudden Deaths of Wathupitiwala into the deaths of Mohamed Samsudeen Madali (58) and Hirooun Niza (47).

She further said that her father employed as a driver in Dubai for seven years had returned to Sri Lanka only seven days back. "We travelled in this Kandy bound train to Allawwa. After it passed Veyangoda our compartment got enveloped in smoke. Passengers shouted in fear and someone pulled the emergency chain and the train came to a halt.

Tikiri Bandara of Godahena, Dolapihilla, Kandy giving evidence said the third fatality Buddhika Niroshan Ekanayake was his son who served in the Air Force base at Anuradhapura. On that day they were waiting for his arrival when a phone message stated that he was a victim of train fire.

The post-mortems were held by Dr. Mrs. Manisha Weerasinghe of the Wathupitiwala hospital.





CEB gets heart burn with Norochocholai

January 1, 2014, 8:23 pm

By Ifham Nizam

A section of technical experts of the Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) yesterday expressed concern over the recent breakdown of the condenser worth some Rs. 20,000 million, within the short existence of just two years of the commissioning the first coal power plant at Norochcholai.

They said such problems should not be taken lightly, especially when its second phase was about to be commissioned between January 15 and 20. "With the 300MW first phase all sorts of problems were experienced and when it comes to 600MW with the commissioning of the second phase, everybody needs to be extra cautious," an engineer said.

A senior engineer told The Island that Power and Energy Ministry Secretary M. M. C. Ferdinanado too had raised concern about how equipment guaranteed for more than 25 years breakdown within two years.

The Island reliably learns that the top management is now looking into the earlier recommendations on the methodology of purchasing equipment.

Meanwhile, CEB Additional General Manager (Generation) Senior Engineer, M.C. Wickreamasekara told The Island that the condenser had 16,000 tubes. However, it had excess capacity of 10 per cent giving an advantage in the event of technical problems.





Prospects for Human Rights and Reconciliation in 2014?

January 1, 2014, 6:41 pm

By Laksiri Fernando

Both the world and Sri Lanka most probably enter the New Year with melancholy. Of course we greet each other to the contrary, hoping that everything would go well. The formidable challenge before the world in 2014 or for the years to come would be the 'global warming' and the consequent or unrelated 'natural disasters'. We lament about them when they occur and then conveniently forget about them all,engaging in our own day to day preoccupations, mostly conflictual.

Tsunami disaster just few days before the dawn of the New Year of 2005 was the best example. We all communities became instantly united when the Tsunami struck us on 26 December 2004, but then soon went back to our disastrous conflicts, one against the other, not only on ethnic and religious grounds, but also on the pretexts of politics and even personal grounds. We have been excellent in blaming each other without contemplating on our own follies of bigotry and foibles. That is how an Eelam War IV came about.

On the issue of global warming, we are condemned to 'death by thousand cuts.' It is slow and suffocating. The Liberal government that came to power few months back in Australia is determined to do away with the 'carbon tax' which was previously introduced to discourage the gas emissions to the atmosphere. Removal of the tax is argued to stimulate the economy, and of course it would, but at what cost? This is the logic everywhere. The long term wisdom is sacrificed to short term economic or other gains.

The year 2013 ended painfully for many people, especially for the poor, the destitute and the marginalised. All of them constitute more than half of the world population of now over 7 billion people in this small planet. The civil war continued in Syria without resolution, thousands and thousands of new refugees fleeing the country. South Sudan, the most recent new state, created under the patronage of the UN, just few years back, plunged into fears internal conflict just recently, hundreds of people newly killed, proving perhaps the creation of new states per se might not be the best solution for conflicts.

More dramatic were the events in Moscow. The ugly head of terrorism is raising its head again and even to the glee of the authorities because then they can continue their restrictions on freedoms of the people on the pretext of terrorism threat.

The end of 2013 in Sri Lanka was not without incidents, although it appeared superficially so. Three churches in the South were reported to be attacked on the Christmas eve by the religious bigots, BBS goons or not. A similar incident occurred in Potuvil, a Sufi shrine being attacked by a rival faction of the same Islam. The religious intolerance is not simply 'black and white,' only limited to the Buddhist fanatics, although they are the most menacing. There is intolerance within the same cluster of faith as well. When some churches are attacked, the other churches appear to keep quiet.

Most of the attacks are on the 'Assembly of God.' One may consider that some of the pastors are themselves being 'bigots.' However, the other religious groups have no right to attack them or their places of worship. Freedom of conscience, worship and propagate one's own religion peacefully are constitutional rights. As the things have been continuing for a very long period now, the impunity with which they operate is a disgrace for the government and the law enforcement authorities. Perhaps their culpability is the reason for the silence.

Whatever the misgivings that we have about the Ancient past of Sri Lanka, religious tolerance and freedom of conscience were protected even under some despotic kings. The blend of Buddhism and Hinduism at the level of people's worship was one result of that situation. This was the case in many Asian countries, even when the West was engulfed in religious wars and bigotry.

The year 2013 was not at all a smooth year for Sri Lanka. It started with a bad taste by impeaching the Chief Justice arbitrarily. The independence of the judiciary has been the main casualty since then, apart from the continuous personal harassment of Dr Shirani Bandaranayake. When the judiciary was suffocated, the prospects for human rights became bleak and bleak, the grievances accumulating without legal redress whether it was freedom of expression or the freedom of the journalists. The harassment of journalists continued unassailed particularly in the North. The torture in police custody increased as figures shown by the Human Rights Commission.

The major human rights event in the year in the South undoubtedly was the Weliweriya incidents and the shooting in August. It was an incident related to the environmental protection that we have highlighted at the beginning in this article and in this case the ground water pollution, whatever is the actual reason. It was admirable that the people protested without being submissive like in most of the other cases of rights violations. The event also revealed the heavy weight of the armed forces, and the defence establishment, in the present state apparatus, without allowing the civilian issues to be handled by the police.

Weliweriya could have been an eye opener for those who cannot understand the adverse consequences of the heavy presence of the armed forces in the North. There is a parallel. But unfortunately it was not apparently the case because of the ethnic prejudices of the majority of the people. It also should be an eye opener for the armed forces itself. As a professional army, it should refrain from interfering in administrative or civilian matters in the North and point out that to the higher political authorities. I remember some army officers very clearly expressing the view during the failed peace process, and even before, that their task was only defence and it is up to the politicians to resolve the ethnic conflict.

The year 2013 also marked some positive developments. The holding of the Northern Provincial Council election in September was one. The holding of the CHOGM in November and the interaction with the other Commonwealth leaders was another, although some on the other side missed the golden opportunity and some wagged their fingers unnecessarily. All in all it was good. It was during this time that the President promised to investigate the 'war crime' allegations. Now it is up to him to 'walk the talk' pending the Human Rights Council sessions in March.

Following the holding of the NPC elections, it is of paramount importance that the government allows that Provincial Council to function properly without interference through the Governor or the military. There is no question that the government has improved considerable infrastructure and initiated some development projects particularly through the Ministry of Economic Development. That is the main message of the President for this New Year, unfortunately without any mention of reconciliation. There is no doubt that development, if properly done, is fulfilment of human rights. But that to happen, especially in the case of the Northern and the Eastern provinces, the people's participation should be there. That could only come through the Provincial Councils and their elected representatives and not from selected individuals on a political basis.

In the New Year, the government should prove that it is serious about its declared policy of reconciliation. There is one symbolic gesture that it can do even before the March human rights sessions. That is to resolve the prevailing ambiguity on the language issue of the national anthem. Sri Lanka undoubtedly has been one of the few countries that allowed the bilingual singing of the national anthem in both Sinhalese and Tamil since 1951. There are many countries now following perhaps Sri Lanka's example. Even after Sinhala became the only official language in 1956, the practice continued without interference. But the present government, whatever the reason, put this policy into jeopardy in December 2010 while both Sinhala and Tamil are official languages since 1987.

The inconsistency and vacillation of the government on reconciliation are amply demonstrated by this ambiguous policy, irrespective of the LLRC recommendation on the subject. After the formation of the NPC, the Chief Minister has reinstated the custom, by rightfully singing the national anthem in Tamil in the Northern Province. They also hoist the national flag without any qualm. These were not the practices during the LTTE times. The government should now reciprocate without procrastinating. Otherwise, the prophecy of Colvin R. de Silva might prove even in this case. When what he said is rephrased it might read as follows.

National anthem in one language, two nations; national anthem in two languages, one nation.

My suggestion for the national anthem this New Year would be little more than having it in two languages or two lyrics. It might be akin to what Minister A. L. M. Athaullah has apparently suggested during the Cabinet discussions in December 2010. That is to have in one text but in both languages; one verse in Sinhala, then the next in Tamil. In this way both communities should be able to sing the national anthem also in the other's language.





Com Bank's e-Exchange promotion in UAE

January 1, 2014, 7:30 pm

The Commercial Bank of Ceylon promoted its e-Exchange remittance service inacolourful year-end campaign in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) by organising a 'Road show' and 'Sri Lankan Night' in December.

Branches of Al AhaliaExchange, one of the main business partners of Commercial Bank in UAE in five Emirates— Dubai,Sharjah,Abu Dhabi,Ajman and Ras al-Khaimah — participated in the 'Road Show' held from 8th to13thDecember.

Two popular Sri Lankan artistes flown to the UAE for the promotion joined representatives of Commercial Bank to greet e-Exchange customers and pose for photographs with them at selected branches in the five Emirates.

The Commercial Bank also felicitated Sri Lankan staff membersof exchange housesin the UAE by presenting them with special certificates in appreciation for their efforts to promote Commercial Bank's e-Exchange service at the 'Ahalia Sri Lankan Night' – a gala event at the Crowne Plaza Hotel in Deira, Dubai. Every invitee that attended the event received a handsome Commercial Bank branded gift.

The Commercial Bank of Ceylon is one of the most active players in Sri Lanka in the field of remittances, offering customers a range of options including the Bank's own e-Exchange platform. e-Exchange is a highly secure, low cost money transfer facility which is available to remitters via a network of agents in over 50 countries. Remitters can send money even without having an account in the Bank. Commercial Bank has its own Business Promotion Officers (BPOs) in key markets around the world where significant numbers of Sri Lankans are employed.

One of the Bank's key strengths is its island-wide network of 235 branches and service points and its network of 585 ATMs, which is the largest automated cash dispensing system owned by a single bank in Sri Lanka.Recipients of remittances sent to the Bank enjoy many benefits such as over 50 holiday banking centres and super market counters, a 24/7 service point conveniently located in Katunayake , a dedicated customer support call centre for remittances and an SMS alerts facility once the remittance is received and is ready to be paid out.

The largest private bank in Sri Lanka, Commercial Bank has the distinction of being the only Sri Lankan bank to be listed among the Top 1000 Banks of the World three years consecutively. The Bank has also been adjudged 'Best Bank in Sri Lanka' for 15 consecutive years by 'Global Finance' Magazine and has won multiple awards as the country's best bank from 'The Banker,' 'FinanceAsia,' 'Euromoney' and 'Trade Finance' magazines.





Education Reforms

January 1, 2014, 6:58 pm

Several letters have appeared in the print media on the proposed dismantling of the Year Five Examination. Some individuals have drawn our attention to the fact that if not for this examination their own education and employment would have been very much in jeopardy and the significant contribution they have made to the country in different fields may not have been possible. This indeed is very true and this enabling capacity of education would be lessened if intelligent children in the less affluent families are deprived of a good education and their intellect would be lost perhaps forever and this would be an irreparable loss to the country which it could ill afford. Therefore there is a rational case for the provision of this facility but perhaps in a different form.

Most important change that has to be brought in, child psychologists and educationists would bare me out, is the lessening, if not total removal of the burden of education. In fact such specialists, it seems, have advised the Ministry of Education on the desirability of doing this for several valid reasons. A happy child would develop into a happy adult. A child denied of its childhood would not be a happy child. For children learning should be fun. The burden of education should not be introduced into a child's life so early. Then life itself becomes a burden and only a few would come through the ordeal. When life is made to be intensely competitive by a high hurdle like the year five examination in its present form all the undesirable human traits are developed instead of the desirable. Ferocious competitiveness, selfishness, intense jealousy, hatred, would take abode in the mind instead of cordiality, kindness, generosity, sensitivity, team spirit. Such children are anti social, destructive, violent, burnt out individuals when they come up in life. This could well be one of the reasons for the inexplicable violence among the youth. Psychiatric manifestations are also quite common among the youth in this country.

Child psychologists and educationists tell us that a child should spend his time playing around and being happy. The natural instinct to learn that all human beings inherit must be nurtured and allowed to prosper instead of burdensome curricula that are being forced on little children. The bag of books these children carry on their backs is symbolic of the burden they carry right through life. There is no place for self learning and development of individual creative talents. As there is no encouragement of self learning these children expect everything to be taught and are helpless when there is no tutor. Tuition masters prosper starting from year one continuing into university and higher education.

The problems in year one which start with the struggle to find a school for the child and all the malpractice and corruption it entails and then the year five examination and all the burden it carries are caused by the lack of good schools for all the children. This is a perennial problem which is the reality at every stage of education. There are not enough good educational institutions to cater to all children at every stage of education. A special effort should be made to build good schools and higher educational institutions. There are promises in this regard but how much would materialize has to be seen in the near future. Good schools and good unburdensome curricula are an urgent need if we are to save our children and their parents.

As for the special intelligent student of poor circumstances a scheme will have to be developed to find this talent and provide for its full and natural development. But the scrapping of offending and injurious year five examination cannot be delayed any further. The other very relevant question is what about the trauma caused to those who do not do well at this exam. A good system must cater not only to the exceptionally good student but to the much larger majority of average students whose individual talents also must be developed. If the Minister's proposal of developing one thousand good schools could be implemented without undue delay and the facilities for learning are provided the problem could be solved to good extent but knowing what happens to ministerial promises one cannot have any hope. Yet this is one area where the people of this country must take up positions demanding the building of better primary schools for that is where the foundation is laid for the building of the country.









Separate sanctuary for stray cattle, goats in Delft

January 1, 2014, 12:00 pm

By Ifham Nizam

Plans are underway to set up a separate sanctuary for stray cattle and goats on the Island of Delft off Jaffna peninsula.

This follows a lengthy discussion between Wildlife Resources and Conservation Minister Wijith Vijithamuni de Zoysa and Traditional Industries and Small Enterprise Development Minister Douglas Devananda last week where the former agreed to a proposal to the effect made by the later.

The Jaffna District parliamentarian had asked Zoysa to set up a separate sanctuary for stray cattle and goats as otherwise they would prove to be harmful to the wild ponies.

Devananada said that he intended holding a discussion at the Jaffna District Secretariat to be attended by all concerned to draw up a comprehensive workable plan.

It was revealed at the meeting that a considerable number of ponies, stray cattle and goats died during droughts.

At an invitation extended by Devananda, Zoysa, officially paid a visit to the Island of Delft, last week to explore the possibility of setting up a Sanctuary for the wild ponies.

Nelson S. Edirisinghe, Media Secretary to Devananda said that at the discussion held between the two Ministers subsequent to the visit, Minister of Wildlife Resources Conservation had promised that he would soon draw up a plan to set up a Sanctuary for the ponies, complete with fodder and water supplies for conserving them as a national resource.

Sylvestri Allantin, Member of Parliament for Jaffna District and several officials from the Ministry of Wildlife Resources Conservation also participated in the meeting.









Sajith accuses govt of coming up with cockeyed arguments

Grade V scholarship examination

January 1, 2014, 8:08 pm

By Dasun Edirisinghe

Hambantota District UNP parliamentarian Sajith Premadasa said that if education ministry had abolished the Grade V scholarship examination on grounds it caused undue stress in students, the government would have to abolish the GCE (Ordinary Level) and GCE (Advanced Level) examinations too as those exams also caused tremendous stress.

He said that the government's effort to amend or abolish the Grade V scholarship examination would affect rural students who studied under severe hardships.

Premadasa said that late Minister C. W. W. Kannangara's free education system helped rural poor students, who studied to enter popular schools and Central Colleges countrywide based on the results of Grade V scholarship examination.

"Later those students reached top posts in the country in every field," he said.

Premadasa said that obtaining high marks at the Grade V scholarship examination was the only chance a rural poor student got to enter schools with all facilities like Royal and Visakha, but the government would block that avenue soon.

The MP said that intellectuals had been urging the government to allocate 6% of GDP to education, but it had not heeded that request.

Late Presidents J. R. Jayewardene and Ranasinghe Premadasa had introduced the free school text book, free meals and free uniforms programmes, but the present government had failed to take them forward, Premadasa claimed.

"This government cut down the free school meals programme and now only 27% students are receiving free meals," he said.

Premadasa said that the government could not distribute school text books and uniforms on time.





South Asia's emerging dilemmas

January 1, 2014, 7:40 pm

The Lankan Navy Commander went on to make some references to the issue of some Indian fishermen allegedly poaching in Sri Lanka's territorial waters and this subject ought to alert the countries of South Asia in particular to the need to positively re-fashion their ties with 'regional giant' India.

Very rightly, international fora on South and South West Asia are focusing on the Indian Ocean and issues growing out of it and this trend must be hugely welcomed by commentators the world over. When speaking in terms of 'commentators' one also has in mind the so-called ordinary people who take a lively interest in International Relations although they are generally ignored and not addressed by the 'intelligentsias' of the world. But many of these 'ordinary mortals' are as articulate as the 'authorities' on international issues.

It would not be irrelevant to point out, prior to getting down to the subject of this column, that 'commentators' should consider it obligatory on their part to present their analyses on world affairs in the simplest of language and in the most reader-friendly fashion possible, because there are countless 'ordinary persons' among their readership who are hungering for new insights into International Relations. These readers should not be ignored or forgotten by 'experts'.

'Commentators' would do well to avoid abstract jargon in their analyses for the sake of these 'ordinary readers' who are, after all, 'king-makers', since they vote governments into office, who, in turn, at least theoretically, conduct foreign policy in the name of their publics. These 'ordinary citizens', therefore, need to be always kept informed.

A local public figure of prominence to comment on Indian Ocean affairs in the recent past was Lankan Navy Commander Vice Admiral Jayanath Colombage and he made the valid point - in lucid, jargonless English - at a forum in Colombo, among other things, that 'Economic giants are sailing the India Ocean currently, in a repetition of history'. History is seen as repeating itself primarily on account of the multiple appeal Sri Lanka has had for the international community from ancient times.

In fact, a substantial part of Asia featured in a relatively globalized world, in an economic sense, from pre-modern times and this has been a burden of research of that pioneering economist of contemporary times, Andre Gunder Frank, to mention just one authority on economic globalization. One of his works of recent years to deal with this subject is 'ReOrient' (published by SAGE Publications India, Pvt. Ltd.), which elaborately lays bare the intra-Asian vibrant economic links of those times. These steps helped in bringing prosperity to a considerable number of Asian countries, which opted for liberalized trade and other measures which are promotive of close international economic contact and interaction.

The Lankan Navy Commander went on to make some references to the issue of some Indian fishermen allegedly poaching in Sri Lanka's territorial waters and this subject ought to alert the countries of South Asia in particular to the need to positively re-fashion their ties with 'regional giant' India. Currently, the poaching issue is proving a somewhat divisive problem in Indo-Lanka relations. Likewise, the majority of India's neighbours have differences with her on matters, such as, 'cross-border terror', geographical and territorial boundaries, sharing of river waters, perceived interference in domestic politics and imbalances in bilateral trade.

Considering the economic and material difficulties India is likely to be saddled with in the future, it could be said that the onus is more on India's neighbours to relate on cordial terms with her, rather than for India to go the extra mile to forge increasingly cooperative links with her neighbours. To be sure, such sentiments are unlikely to be seen as 'politically correct' in Sri Lanka in particular, but facts need to be faced squarely. However, India is obliged to establish mutually beneficial links with her neighbours if her legitimate needs are to be met and regional cordiality is to be fostered.

An important fact that should be faced is that India's stature as a regional economic power would only increase steadily in the future. She could be expected to be in a great hurry to strengthen her productive capability because her increasing population, among other factors, would impose severe strains on her resources and on her existing capacity to meet their needs. For instance, she would be hard pressed to further consolidate her industrial capability. But an enhancement of the latter would need to be based on India increasingly accessing, among other things, vast amounts of energy resources.

For that matter, power and energy are urgently required by many of South East Asia's dominant economic powers, such as, China, Japan, Indonesia, South Korea and Malaysia, to name a few. This is one of the reasons why the world has been witnessing some tensions over the past few months between China and some of her neighbours in the South and East China Seas, on territorial and related issues. These powers are in a scramble to secure what is seen as energy resources-rich territory and one would not be off-target if he claims that South-East Asia is currently one of the hottest beds of international tensions.

But on the question of dynamic economic growth, it is India which is proving a match for China at present. It is estimated by some authorities that India's demand for 'primary energy', such as, coal, crude oil and natural gas, will grow by around 3.2 percent annually from 2009 to 2020. This is believed to be double the world average of 1.8 percent yearly growth for the relevant period. India is expected to be very soon ahead of the US, China and Brazil in this respect and South Asia needs to work out the implications of these predictions for India's energy needs. At present, however, India is the third biggest energy consumer behind China and the US.

Accordingly, the pressures on the Indian state, resulting from her mounting developmental and material considerations need to be appreciated by her neighbours. If, for instance, India decides to enhance her military presence in the Indian Ocean, this must be seen as an indication that India is beginning to be extra protective of what are seen as her possessions and assets in the region.

It does not follow from this that India could act overbearingly and intolerantly towards her neighbours, but what it does mean is that both parties would need to be extra- constructive in forging their emerging relations. It should be their endeavour to never cease from trying to put their ties on a constructive, mutually-beneficial footing on the basis of an appreciation of their respective needs.





Rs. 40 million claimed from police for death in custody

January 1, 2014, 9:19 pm

By Chitra Weerarathne

The widow and two children of a deceased vegetable vendor have claimed compensation of Rs. 40 million from Police Narcotics Bureau, alleging that the deceased M. Sakeem M. Fareem had died due to brutal police assault while in custody.

The deceased was arrested on October 30, 2013 by officers of the Maligawatta police, assaulted and hospitalised in the National Hospital Colombo. The deceased had died the same evening, while in the hospital, the plaint has said.

The deceased (30) was arrested on the suspicion of being in possession of narcotics.

The widow Fathima Rizana who is the plaintiff is aged 26 years and the children aged 10 years and 5 years.

The plaint was filed in the District Court of Colombo recently. A Magisterial inquiry was held in respect of the death.





SIR CYRIL DE ZOYSA - He Traversed An Untrodden Path

January 1, 2014, 6:43 pm

Considering the extraordinary contributions made by Sir Cyril de Zoysa towards the spread of the Word of the Buddha (Buddha Dhamma), and in the service of the Dispensation of the Buddha (Buddha Sasana), also in the service of the Sinhala Nation and of the community at large, he holds a unique position among the great Sinhala Buddhist leaders that this country has seen.

It is indeed significant that the practical results of his services spread out over these various fields stand out conspicuously even in this day and age.

I believe that the historic Bodhi in Kalutara alone suffices as a bench mark for the evaluation of his services. This is but one single aspect of the services rendered by Sir Cyril.

This brings to mind the period of time when he worked with the Sri Lanka Maha Bodhi Society, serving also as its President. It was during this brief period that the Society founded by the great Anagarika Dharmapala took off the ground and reached very special heights. I recall how Sir Cyril accepted this position in response to an invitation extended by the Venerable Hedigalle Pannatissa Thera, Chief Prelate or Sanghanayake of India and Chief Incumbent of the Maha Bodhi Vihara and made a distinguished contribution to the progress of the Society. I also recall myself observing his activities with all the earnestness of a twenty-seven-year-old. Beneath his simple ways lay a strong personality. This personality too was one attribute that made him stand out in my memory as a very special person.

This period too was a golden age in the annals of the Maha Bodhi Society and it remains etched in my memory. What made Sir Cyril so very special was that he took immediate steps no sooner any shortcoming was detected. If a quick measure was not at hand he would promptly telephone his business firm and work out a solution. It was not in him to postpone anything on any account.

No obstacle in the way of his forward march ever deterred him.

I recall again how I watched out for the days he would visit the Maha Bodhi Vihara in Colombo to attend to the work of the Sri Lanka Maha Bodhi Society. This was for none other reason but that I felt that his style of action was a fine guiding light for me to emulate.

Sir Cyril's services were not confined to the Southern region where he was born on the 26th of October 1896, in the village of Welitara, in Balapitiya. They spread even beyond the shores of Sri Lanka both to the East and the West, as is evident by his actions and services.

After moving to Kalutara to practise the legal profession, the very first service in the field of religion that he embarked on, was the protection of the historic Bodhi Tree and its precincts, making them places worthy of veneration. The very height of this endeavour was the construction of a sacred dome (a Chaitya) of traditional style and proportion never before attempted since the days of the line of Sinhala Kings (which ended with the invasions made by Western colonialists.) Today the Kalutara Bodhi has blossomed into a sacred place of very special veneration not only by Buddhists of this land but also by the larger World Community of Buddhists.

Apart from this, as founder of the Kalutara Balika Vidyalaya and of the Kalutara Vidyalaya he took steps to promote the revival of Buddhist education in Kalutara.

A businessman par excellence, he was also the President of the Senate, the Higher Legislative Chamber of the day.

Leadership in the project for the 'Restoration of the Kiri Vehera in Kataragama' and the contributions made to the Young Men's Buddhist Association in Colombo, stand out significant among his array of services.

Considering the services rendered by Sir Cyril to the cause of the Sasana, outside the limits of Sri Lanka, one must indeed recall the commitment he made to the London Buddhist Vihara.

If one were to record the list of institutions in which he held membership it would indeed be a very long one. Likewise a record of his services would run into several volumes.

Great men such as Sir Cyril bring honour, pride and radiance to their motherland. Such men are born due to the good fortune of the land and the community at large. For such reason, may be, every position that Sir Cyril held, drew radiance from him while he himself drew no radiance from such positions.

At this point there is a matter that warrants special mention. It is that the religious and patriotic missions in which, Sir Cyril was engaged in his day, are today amply revitalized by his nephew, Mr. Ajita de Zoysa. While Mr. Ajita de Zoysa had for some time been an active member of the governing body of the Sri Lanka Maha Bodhi Society he remains unto this day fully committed to its advancement. Moreover he has been contributing in various ways, quite unsolicited, to the development of the Sri Lanka Jee Temple in Japan. I am certainly of view that the contributions made by Mr. Ajita de Zoysa for the sustenance and furtherance of the services of Sir Cyril are of no mean measure.

Despite the lapse of 35 years after the demise of Sir Cyril de Zoysa, he yet lives fresh in the memory of the people of this country. What is more, this will remain so for centuries to come.





YOUNIS AND MISBAH MAKE MERRY IN ABU DHABI

January 1, 2014, 9:03 pm

Special Correspondent in Abu Dhabi

Veterans Younis Khan (136) and Misbah-ul-Haq (105*) hit contrasting centuries to help Pakistan to 327 for four at stumps on day two of the second Test against Sri Lanka at Abu Dhabi yesterday. Pakistan were leading by 123 runs with six wickets in hand.

Sri Lanka tasted some success in the morning session when Mohammad Hafeez and Ahmed Shehzad fell cheaply, but Younis and Misbah shared 218 runs for the fourth wicket to give Pakistan complete control of the game after Sri Lanka had been shot out for a paltry 204 in their first innings on day one.

After the double strike in the morning, the pair cautiously rebuilt Pakistan's innings before cashing in in the final session of the day.

Younis needed exactly 100 deliveries for his half-century, but the next fifty came off just 47 deliveries as he cut loose.

The elegance of other Karachi based Pakistani players like Javed Miandad and Saeed Anwar maybe lacking in Younis, but nevertheless he is highly effective and comes up with match-winning contributions without much notice. Only Miandad, Inzamam-ul-Haq and Mohammed Yousuf (formerly Yousuf Youhana) have scored more runs for Pakistan than Younis (7,250). He also has an excellent average of 51 in Tests.

Younis reached his sixth Test century against Sri Lanka with a nicely executed cover drive off Rangana Herath for four. Herath on whom Sri Lanka were banking a lot failed to pick up a wicket, but he was economical conceding just 77 runs in his 31 overs, nine of which were maidens.

Younis finally fell for 136 having faced 198 deliveries. He hit 19 fours and a six.

Misbah's knock wasn't as free flowing as Younis'. He required 236 deliveries for his fifth Test hundred. The Pakistani captain who will reach 40 next May was unbeaten on 105 at stumps.

Sri Lanka could have dismissed Misbah when he was on 76. A leg-before-wicket shout off Suranga Lakmal was turned down but captain Angelo Mathews and the bowler after a brief consultation didn't opt to review the decision. Had Sri Lanka reviewed, the decision would have been overturned.

Sri Lanka's seamers weren't able to trouble the batsmen as much as the Pakistani seamers had done on day one. Shaminda Eranga picked up two wickets while Suranga Lakmal chipped in with the wicket of Hafeez.





Canada's claim of Rathika under house arrest baseless – govt.

January 1, 2014, 9:17 pm

By Shamindra Ferdinando

Jaffna police denied Canadian media reports that Jaffna born Canadian MP Rathika Sitsabaiesan had been placed under house arrest in the peninsula.

Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Police, Jaffna Roshan Dias told The Island that MP Sitsabaiesan was staying at Tilco hotel in the heart of Jaffna. "We had no reason to place her under house arrest," Dias said, adding that the Sitsabaiesan was visiting the country on a tourist visa.

New Democratic Party (NDP) MP Sitsabaiesan arrived in Sri Lanka on Dec 28 on a fact finding mission. Soon after her arrival, Sitsabaiesan travelled overland to Jaffna peninsula, where she met several Illankai Tamil Arasu Kadchi (ITAK) representatives.

A section of the media tends to speculate on sensitive issues, the official said. He pointed out that no one could be placed under house arrest without having a judicial order.

The Canadian government media office didn't respond to The Island query as regards the alleged arrest of MP Sitsabaiesan though it acknowledged receiving our question.

A senior official told The Island that those concerned about the visiting MP's safety and security could easily send her SMS to verify. According to him, the NDP MP was seeking political mileage back at home in Canada by having a relationship with an influential section of the ITAK, which was the dominant partner of the five-party Tamil National Alliance (TNA) running the first ever Northern Provincial Council.

The External Affairs Ministry official alleged that it was part of the propaganda campaign to vilify Sri Lanka. The official expressed surprise none of those concerned about the MP had contacted her or the ITAK representatives whom she met in Jaffna and Kilinochchi.

Well informed sources told The Island that Ms Sitsabaiesan was visiting Jaffna amidst a move by the LTTE rump in Canada to clip her wings. Sources said that the LTTE rump was now backing Markham City Councillor Logan Kanapathi (Labour Party) to contest newly created Scarborough North electorate at the general election next year. Sources revealed that she had earned the wrath of the LTTE rump by refusing to attend a conference on 'Tamil People's Rights' on the sidelines of the March 2013 session of the Geneva-based United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC), thereby paved the way for Kanapathi's entry into the field. The Conservative Party and the Liberal Party were represented by Patrick Brown and Jim Karrigiannis. The rift widened in May last year when Ms Sitsabaiesan was deprived of an opportunity to address a commemorative event held at the Queen's Park, Toronto for those who died on the banks of the Nanthikadal lagoon during the final confrontation between the Sri Lankan army and the LTTE. In fact, she couldn't even get on to the stage, sources said, adding that the NDP was making a bid to lionise her to downplay the Labour Party announcing Kanapathi's candidature.





Organised criminal gang busted

The Teldeniya police recently took into custody two suspects belonging to an organised gang including its leader were responsible for a series of burglaries in Rajawella and its surroundings.

The suspects were produced before the Acting Teldeniya Magistrates Kumari Karaliyadda and Sarath Premakumara on two different dates and further remanded. They were ordered to be produced in court on January 6.

They were wanted by the Alawathugoda, Menikhinna, and Balagolla police stations.

The police said that the the gold jewellery and the cheques stolen were worth several millions of rupees.

The van they used for the burglaries and the stolen articles had been produced before court, a senior officer said.





A'pura hospital employees end strike after doc's arrest

Employees of the Anuradhapura Teaching Hospital yesterday ended their strike following the arrest and remanding of a suspect who had allegedly installed a micro camera in the staff toilet.

A spokesman for the Government Nursing Officers' Association (GNOA) at the Anuradhapura Teaching Hospital said that the staff had decided to call off the strike as they did not wish to inconvenience patients at the beginning of the year.

Anuradhapura Magistrate on Tuesday (31) ordered the arrest of the doctor for installing a micro-camera on the towel rack of the ladies' staff toilet. The suspect was remanded till Monday (06).

The GNOA spokesman also called for a disciplinary inquiry against the doctor concerned within the next few weeks. (DJ)





Ali Mankada or Elephant Pass should stay

January 1, 2014, 6:59 pm

May I wish you and all the readers a Happy and Peaceful New Year. May I also pray for vision, understanding, and appreciation of the peoples needs and the rulers to reduce their luxury life styles at the expense of the millions on a near starvation diet in the New Year.

Mr Somapala Gunadheera and you have been on an unsuccessful mission up to now to awaken the rulers to reality and needless to emphasise your readers in unison will desire less issues and not addition to their woes. when such unwanted issues can well be avoided.

The suggestion of SG to re name Elephant Pass as GANE HANDIYA is unquestionably sensible in more than one way and he has amplified on this and needs no repetition. The fundamental need is a word that can be pronounced easily without assistance from a tuition master and the other to appreciate as SG suggests a name that will not disturb a hornets' nest. It is abundantly clear when those unsuitable to handle power,this dangerous weapon,it is tantamount to a monkey handling a razor.

To the average citizen, particularly to those resident in that location, what matters is not a new name and if all a name,to identify the place and not jaw breaking names

In my view ALI MANKADA OR ELEPHANT PASS SHOULD STAY as all are familiar with this name and needs no change as there are more compelling issues to solve.So lets not add more to the list and create further confusion and chaos. However if the rulers need is to change for the sake of changing the best that could happen is to accept the suggestion of SG.





Kejriwal delivers on promise of free water in Delhi

January 1, 2014, 8:09 pm

BY S VENKAT NARAYAN Our Special Correspondent

NEW DELHI, December 30: Fulfilling its poll promise, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)government today announced 667 litres of free water daily for domestic consumption to each household having a metered connection in Delhi.

The decision was taken at a meeting of the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) chaired by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal at his residence in Kausambi near here.

In its election manifesto, the Aam Admi Party had announced that 700 litres of free water will be supplied daily to each household if it comes to power.

"All the domestic consumers having metered connections will get 20 kilolitres of water free of cost from January 1. We will not even levy any existing charges such as water cess and sewerage charge," newly-appointed Delhi jal Board CEO Vijay Kumar told reporters.

He, however, said if the consumption limit crosses 20 kilolitres, then the consumer will have to pay for the water and other charges.

Kumar was appointed CEO of DJB on Saturday evening in place of Debashree Mukherjee, who is understood to have reservations over supplying water free of cost.

Last month, DJB had planned to increase the water tariff by 10 per cent from January to improve its finances.

It is not immediately clear whether government will charge for water being supplied to over 1,600 unauthorised colonies across the city as in most households in these settlements water metres are yet to be installed.









Inflation down to mid single digit in December

January 1, 2014, 7:11 pm

Inflation which was contained within single digit levels for nearly five consecutive years, fell significantly to mid single digit in December last year, the Central Bank said.

The year-on year headline inflation, as measured by the Colombo Consumers' Price Index, decreased to 4.7 percent in December 2013 compared to 9.2 percent in December 2012, improving business and investor confidence, CB said.

4.7 percent was the lowest recorded since March 2012 according to the Central Bank.

The annual average inflation rate also fell decelerated further to 6.9 percent in December for the seventh consecutive month.

The contribution to the decline in annual average inflation to 6.9 per cent in 2013 came mainly from slowdown in the price increase in the non-food category, which grew only by 6.1 per cent in 2013 against that of 10.0 per cent in 2012. The impact of the upward price revision of petrol, diesel, kerosene and bus fares on inflation was lower in 2013 than in 2012. As a result, the average price in the transport sub-category increases only by 4.6 per cent.

In addition, comparatively lower increase in the average prices in the sub-categories of Health (1.7 per cent). Furnishing, household equipment and routine household maintenance (by 4.0 per cent) and clothing and footwear (by 5.4 per cent) in 2013 than in 2012 contributed favorably to this decline. However, relatively high increase in the food and non-alcoholic beverages category by 7.9 per cent in 2013 compared to 2012 had an upward pressure on inflation.

Core inflation which captures underlying long-term trend of inflation has also moved on a declining path in 2013 to record the lowest figure since its inception in 2007. The year-on-year core inflation has declined steadily, reaching its lowest at 2.1 per cent in December 2013 compared to 7.6 per cent in December 2012.

The annual average core inflation also continued to decline since mid-2013 and reached 4.4 per cent by December 2013. This favorable development is a reflection of the effectiveness of prudent demand management policies of the Central Bank which have been implemented successfully in containing price pressure emanating from the demand side.





MDP didn't try to get my charges dropped, asserts Nasheed

January 1, 2014, 8:17 pm

Former Maldivian President Mohamed Nasheed on Tuesday insisted that Maldivian Democratic Party (MDP) did not try to get the charges against him dropped in return for approving President Abdulla Yameen's cabinet.

Tourism Minister and deputy leader of ruling Progressive Party of Maldives (PPM) Ahmed Adeeb had said MDP tried to get the charges against Nasheed over the arbitrary arrest and subsequent detention of Chief Criminal Judge during his presidency dropped in return for voting in favour of approving the cabinet.

Nasheed in a short SMS to haveeru on Monday evening refuted Adeeb's comments.

Parliament on Monday had approved the entire cabinet of President Yameen despite MDP issuing a three line whip against over half of the nominations.

The main opposition party had issued a three line whip against the approval of eight of the 15 members of the cabinet including Defence Minister Mohamed Nazim, Finance Minister Abdulla Jihad, Tourism Minister Ahmed Adeeb, Transport Minister Ameen Ibrahim, Home Minister Umar Naseer, Islamic Minister Mohamed Shaheem Ali Saeed, Housing Minister Dr Mohamed Muizzu and Health Minister Dr Mariyam Shakeela.

However, some MDP lawmakers had voted against the whip line.

MDP had issued a free whip for the remaining cabinet nominations.

The parliamentary government oversight committee dominated by MDP lawmakers had also decided against approving the eight ministers.

MDP had argued that that the decision was made because the ministers had represented the "coup government" of former president Mohamed Waheed Hassan. (Haveeruonline)





CA Sri Lanka awards cyber-crime fighters with DISSCA certificates

January 1, 2014, 7:14 pm

The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) recently awarded certificates to students who successfully completed the Diploma in Information System Security Control and Audit (DISSCA).

The certificate awards ceremony which comes in the midst of increasing threats to cyber-crime, aims to enhance the IT skills of professionals both from accounting and non-accounting sectors.

The certificate awards ceremony was held under the patronage of CA Sri Lanka President Sujeewa Rajapakse.

The DISSCA programme was launched in 2003 in collaboration with the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, and since its launch CA Sri Lanka has passed out over 20 batches who are well versed in information system security control.

Addressing the certificate awards ceremony, Rajapakse noted that there is a constantly increasing demand for IT professional in Sri Lanka and abroad and professionals who focus onto information system security is enjoying a higher demand as of present.

"No matter what professions we hail from, we all need the knowledge of information technology to be successful in our chosen fields," he added. He also urged the students to continue to their education in this field.

Chief Executive Officer of CA Sri Lanka, Mr. Aruna Alwis said that the main objective of introducing this porgramme was to ensure professionals from the accounting fields were also well versed in the field of information technology.

"CA Sri Lanka will continue to propagate the importance of this course to both accountants and other professionals in the future," he added.





The career ending kiss

January 1, 2014, 8:31 pm

By Wimal Keerthi Negombo Correspondent

Acting on a complaint received, the Airport Police took into custody a security guard who attempted to kiss a foreigner in a toilet despite her protests recently . She was to board a flight to Istanbul, the police said.

The young Swedish female Johr Arsha Annette was leaving the country following a holiday here to her work place in Istanbul.

The suspect was produced before Negombo Magistrate A.M.P.N.Amarasinghe and released on Rs 7,500 cash and Rs 250,000 surety bail.









People visited their respective religious places as they ushered ....

January 1, 2014, 8:17 pm

People visited their respective religious places as they ushered the New Year dawned yesterday. (From left) Buddhist devotees at the Kelaniya Raja Maha Vihara, Hindus at the Ponnambalam Vanishwarar Kovil at Kochchikade and Christians at the St Anthony's Church, Kochchikade. Pic by Nishan S Priyantha and Jude Denzil Pathiraja





UPFA constituent alleges escalation of robberies, violence in Jaffna

Jaffna police deny claim

January 1, 2014, 9:16 pm

By Shamindra Ferdinando

The Eelam People's Democratic Party (EPDP) is pushing for additional police presence in the Jaffna peninsula claiming an escalation of robberies, violence and what the UPFA constituent calls anti-social activities.

Traditional Industries and Small Enterprise Development Minister Douglas Devananda, who is also the leader of the EPDP, emphasised the need for new police stations and posts in the Jaffna electoral district.

The minister was addressing the Jaffna District Civil Security Committee held at the Jaffna District Secretariat on Dec 26, 2013. Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Police, Jaffna, Rohan Dias was among the officers present at the meeting. Minister Devananda suggested that additional night police patrols would help curb the situation.

The meeting convened by Jaffna Government Agent Sundaram Arumainayagam, was chaired by Minister Devananda.

Minister Devananda also requested the police to shift the police station located at Keerimalai Hindu Kovil to prevent disturbances to the devotees. The Minister urged the police to set up a police station closer to Mathagal beach to tackle those engaged in smuggling 'Kerala' ganja and round up those cutting down palmyrah palms and transporting trunks without permits.

Asked whether the Jaffna police were under pressure due to escalation of robberies, violence and anti-social activities, authoritative law enforcement officers said that the EPDP had misrepresented facts. There was absolutely no basis for special deployment in support of law enforcement operations in the Jaffna peninsula, they said. However, the police realised the urgent need for setting up new police stations and upgrade some police posts for the convenience of the public, they said. In some instances, people had been forced to travel over 20 kms to lodge a complaint, therefore new police stations would give swift access to the public, the police said.

Responding to another query, the police said that the police had the wherewithal to handle cases in Tamil. Contrary to reports even court cases were handled in Tamil, the police.

Asked whether the police intended to establish new stations, a senior official said that they were in a dilemma due to dearth of state land in the peninsula. The official said: "In fact, most of the police stations in the peninsula are housed at privately owned buildings. We are facing a crisis due to some owners requesting their buildings back. Urgent action plan is needed to find alternative land and we may have to acquire land at current market prices."

Minister Devananda has told Jaffna GA to find state land or rent out private property for the police.

Sylvestri Allantin, Member of Parliament for Jaffna District; Kugenthran, a former Member of Parliament; Mrs. Rubani Varathalingam, Additional Government Agent, Jaffna; all the Divisional Secretaries; Professor Balasundarampillai, Senior Superintendent of Police; Jaffna District, Assistant superintendents of police Jaffna District and relevant Senior Government Officials participated at this meeting.





Ranil loyalist crosses over to government

He was shot in Matara clash

January 1, 2014, 9:18 pm

By Dasun Edirisinghe

Southern Provincial Council Galle District UNP member Krishantha Pushpakumara alias Raththaran yesterday crossed over to the Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) after meeting President Mahinda Rajapaksa at Carlton, Tangalle.

Pushpakumara was part of the mob that attacked the anti-Ranil Wickremesinghe reformist march in Matara on October 05.

Pushpakumara told The Island that he would formally join the SLFP tomorrow (03) by taking up its membership.

"I was disappointed with UNP leader Wickremesinghe as I was not given any position in the party even after obtaining the highest number of preferential votes from the Galle District, 52,371 at the 2009 Provincial Council election," he said.

After former Opposition Leader of the Southern Provincial Council Buddhika Pathirana was elected to Parliament in 2010, the post had been given by the leadership to Siri Wijewickrema, who polled only 14, 274, Pushpakumara said, adding it should have been given to him as the one who polled highest number of votes after Pathirana.

He said that Wickremesinghe had not even given him the Akmeemana organiser post which went to Wijepala Hettiarachchi, who had polled only 6,000 votes from that electorate. "I obtained 13,000 preferential votes from the Akmeemana electorate."

An irate Pushpakumara said the despite all that he continued to remain in the party and supported the leadership hoping it would capture power, but it was a mere dream to expect Wickremesinghe to climb to that highest post. "I decided to join the government and will contest the forthcoming Southern Provincial Council election from the UPFA," he added.

Pushpakumara, who received gunshot injuries during the attack on UNP reformists led protest by pro–Ranil Wickremesinghe faction at Matara. Later he was released on bail by the Matara Magistrate. He alleged that UNP reformist Maithree Gunaratne's father Herman had shot him during the confrontation.

During Pushpakumara's stay at the Karapitiya Teaching Hospital, all UNP heavyweights including leader Wickremesinghe and General Secretary Tissa Attanayake visited him.





Swedes find Sri Lanka too expensive...

Jaffna becoming soughtafter tourist dest - Dr Mina and Rienzie

Sri Lankan Rienzie de Silva left the country in search of greener pastures as a 17-year-old in 1976 and settled down in the Swedish town called Helsinborg.

Rienzie returned to Sri Lanka with his bride Mina on holiday in 1999 and they have been visiting the country every year ever since on a month long holiday and travelling around the island exploring the exotic places.

Mina and Rienzie who have widely travelled says "There should be a day that a person could travel around the world with one passport and there are no boundries."

When asked why very few Swedes visit Sri Lanka on holiday, widely travelled Rienzie was of the opinion that they opt to visit countries such as Thailand and Malaysia as Sri Lanka has become too expensive.

Another factor is that there was not much awareness created in the Scandinavian countries about Sri Lanka's tourism product, he added.

"I have been promoting Sri Lanka as a destination in Sweden in my own way in my restaurant by urging those who patronise the place to visit Sri Lanka and distributing brochures and other promotional material and have had success to a certain degree," he pointed out.

What the Sri Lanka Tourism Promotion Bureau should do is to seek the support of those living in Sweden to promote their motherland as a tourist destination as word of mouth promotions go a long way. Rienzie said adding that the SLTPB would do well to appoint a Tourism Ambassador for Sri Lanka in Sweden which will yield positive results.

There are close to 15,000 Sri Lankan

They have made Goldi Sands Hotel in Negombo their home away from home and enjoying its hospitality on all their visits to Sri Lanka.

"We opted for this salubrious hotel because its prices are quite affordable and on the whole we have found that hotels like Goldi Sands are not expensive," Rienzie said.

But one cannot say the same about the night clubs in Colombo as a drink would be as expensive as in London, Rienzie pointed out.

The beaches in Negombo Were becoming cleaner and a number of development projects Were taking place in the area which augurs well for a growing industry like tourism, they said.

Today Rienzie runs a successful restaurateur in Helsinborg with his own restaurant 'Taj Mahal' serving authentic Indian cuisine for which there is a great demand in Sweden.

The self made Sri Lankan has mastered the Indian cuisine over the years and today his restaurant could serve 135 pax with just two persons.

Rienzie advised "One has to plan his or her work and be quick enough, but unfortunately in Sri Lanka the situation is quite different. We should learn to do the job with minimum staff with great efficiency."

"Sri Lankans should learn to be punctual as lost time is money," Nina added.

Majority of those who patronise the restaurant are Swedes and the rest are from other nationalities, such as German and Dutch as there are many of who visit the nearby factories, he said.

Rienzie had studied in one of the hotel school in Stockholm before venturing out into on the restaurant business which is one of the most popular in the area.

"This year we had the opportunity of visiting the North of Sri Lanka and thanks to the President and the security forces for bringing in peace, Nina and Rienzie said.

"The people living in the areas we visited in the North were beaming with smiles and had a positive expression on their faces. For them it doesn't matter who won the war as long as it's over ,"

They all said that they were happy that the civil strife had come to an end and they were full of hope about their future, Nina and Rienzie noted.

Jaffna and the surrounding areas were being developed at a rapid pace and the area steeped in history, rich in culture with a plethora of pitcuresque sites was fast becoming one of the sought after tourist attractions with its beautiful landscape, Rienzie said.

They have visited Unawatuna, one of their favourite holiday spots in the South, Trincomalee and Nilaveli in the East , Anuradhapura, Hikkaduwa, Galle, Matara etc.

Mina likes Unawatuna for its pristine beach and Galle for its history and the Dutch heritage fort for its grandeur.

Mina originally hailing from Central Bombay is a dentist and she married Rienzie in London in 1999 and settled down in Helsinborg.





St. Aloysius' in innings win over Revata

Under-19 Cricket

January 1, 2014, 9:07 pm

by Reemus Fernando

St. Aloysius' College, Galle registered an innings and 141 run victory over Revata College, Balapitiya, as speedster Yasiru Gunawardena with a match bag of eight wickets and Harith Nilanduwage with a four wicket haul in the second innings excelled for the winners in the Inter School Under-19 cricket tournament match which ended with more than a session to spare at Galle, on Tuesday.

Moratu Vidyalaya conceded first innings points to Gurukula College, but a century by Thilan Kavishka (111), helped them conclude the match with their heads held high as they posted 231 for five wickets at close, to force a draw at Moratuwa, on Tuesday.

Trinity scored their second win in two games, when they defeated the once formidable Nalanda College by an innings and 72 runs at Asgiriya.

Bowlers win matches, and Ravin Sayer (match bag of 9-61) was one of the main contributors for Trinity's win.

However, it was the Trinity batting that must have demoralized the opposition.

Kaveen Hiniduma (50) and Chatura Jayasundara (83) went past the 50 mark. There was a welcome return to form for skipper Ron Chandragupta (37), while Nushan Weerasinghe (36) and Madhawa Munaweera (48) ensured stability at the top.

Trailing by 156, the Nalandians succumbed once again to the spinners. Left-arm pacie Amrit Sri Mahan failed to offer any relief and struck thrice. Woshantha Silva and Pramud Hettiwatte were the only batsmen to offer a semblance of resistance.

In their match against St. Anthony's, Katugastota, enjoying a lead of 52, the Mahindians ran short of time (and runs) in their bid for an outright win.

In hindsight, it could be said that had they showed more of the killer instinct on day one, they may have succeeded.

Left-arm spinner Malith Mahela (match bag of 7-56), was one of the key performers. In the batting, Piyashan Kulatunga, with a half century and Dulash Udayanga, with a near fifty, helped Mahinda to get over the 200 run mark.

After a reversal in batting fortunes, one thought the Antonian batting woes were over and done with. Not so. It would be a good idea for the skipper to stay out there longer, given the brittleness of the batting.

Leg-spinner Buvaneka Wijetunga approached his best form with a five for. A greater all round effort is needed from the deputy.





Hurrah for Hilarity and Humour in 2014!

The salient particulars in the report were: that a 21-year-old passenger was taken in yesterday at the B I Airport by Customs, after he arrived from Kenya; had 50 kilos of Khat plants which contain a stimulant narcotic chemical, cathinone. Our Customs' Dept. claim that this has been the first attempt at smuggling this plant, and that too via the Green Channel! He had been forced by his father, who lives in Kochchikade, Colombo, to smuggle this item without a Quarantine Certificate. We are informed that Khat (pronounced 'cot') is a stimulant derived from Catha edulis, which is native to East Africa and southern Arabia, and that the WHO has classified it as an abusive drug that can produce mild to moderate psychological dependence "less than tobacco or alcohol".

Tropical Planting and Gardening, first published in Colombo in 1910. by H F, MACMILLAN, the Superintendent of the Royal Botanic Gardens, Peradeniya, more than 100 years ago. I shall be quoting from the Reprint (Fourth Edition, 1935) which incidentally was first published by MACMILLAN and Co., London. Page 339 in the 1935 Reprint has a 2 X 3 inch photograph of the plant. and states these details:

Arabian or Abyssinian Tea: Khat or Cafta. (Catha edulis. Celastraceae.) A shrub, 6 – 8 feet high, native of Arabia, Abyssinia (Ethiopia) etc., introduced in 1882 at Peradeniya, where it flourishes in ordinary soil, with or without shade. The leaves and young twigs form a considerable article of local trade in its native habitat, being made into a beverage like Tea, or chewed both in the green and dry state. The plant has stimulating or hypnotic properties, and its use in its native home is of great antiquity, preceding that of coffee. In appearance the plant is not unlike ordinary Tea. At one time its use was prohibited among the Arabs by the Koran, but later a decree freed it on the ground that it "only produced hilarity and good humour."

The Island editorials have, time and again, impressed readers about the increasing addiction and devastation from politics, thuggery, heroin and cannabis, which burden the citizens daily. We hope that politics, violence and crime will be appropriately dealt with, in due course. However, if we can out-grow. and then destroy, all cannabis plantations with Khat (Catha edulis) which, as stated by Macmillan, grows well in our soil, we may be able to dilute the peoples' frustration, by drinking stimulating Ceylon Tea in the mornings and afternoons, and, Abyssinian Tea in the evenings, in order that hilarity, fellowship and good humour may prevail, instead of argument and violence after 'kudu' and 'ganja'.





Al-Sheik Al Baghdadi visits Sri Lanka

January 1, 2014, 8:24 pm

His Holiness Al Haj As Seyed As Sheikh Afeef Uddin Al Gaylani, the 18th Direct Descendent of As Shiekh Abdul Cader Al Gaylani (Ralf) Sultanul Awliya and the Direct Descendent of Holy Prophet Muhammed Sayyidina Rasool (Saw) and the Chairman of Board of Trustees of 'AL WARISEEN' Malaysia and Head of Darul Jailani International, has arrived in Sri Lanka on a very short visit to meet his Mureeds, Muffibbeens and well wishes.

His Holiness Sheikh AfeefUddin Al Jailani been conferred the AI IJAZAH AL ILMIYYAH on him, which is one of the prestigious certification for an Islamic Scholar and Teacher in Islamic World.

His Holiness will be participating as the Chief Guest at 211th Anniversary of Mowlood un Nabi (Saw) and Mowlood un Muhiyaddin Abdul Cader al Jaylani (rali) on Friday (Jan 03) at the Galle-Fort. Elaborate arrangements have been made to take His Holiness in procession from Jailani Manzil Galle-Fort to the venue. His Holiness- also will participate in several religious functions and Zikr majlis in Colombo during His short visit. His Holiness Al Haj as Seyed Sheikh AfeefUddin Al Jaylani will pray for peace, unity and prosperity of the country.





JVP asks Bribery Chief to step down

January 1, 2014, 9:23 pm

By Dasun Edirisinghe

JVP Colombo District MP Sunil Handunnetti yesterday demanded that Chairman of the Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption (CIABOC) Jagath Balapatabendi step down pending conclusion of investigations into its complaint against him.

The JVP complained to the CIABOC against its chief yesterday charging that a Supreme Court Bench which included Mr. Balapatabendi while he was a Supreme Court Judge, had given permission to assemble 145 cars in Sri Lanka and he was using one of them at present.

After handing over the petition, MP Handunnetti said that it was not ethical for Balapatabendi to hold the Chairman post of CIABOC while it was investigating him.

"We ask President Mahinda Rajapaksa to remove him at least temporarily as it was the President who appointed him to the post," he said adding that his reappointment as the CIABOC chief could be considered after the conclusion of investigations.

Handunnetti said Balapatabendi was using a car from that consignment and it was registered under his name, but under another name in the revenue licence and other documents which caused suspicion.

According to the Supreme Court order issued by the bench comprising Balapatabendi, the assembled car would be name as 'Emperor,' but he was using it as a 'Corolla', but the court decision clearly stated that it could not be named 'Corolla', the JVP MP said.

He said that it was the first time that a complaint had been lodged against a CIABOC Chief while holding that post.

JVP Colombo Municipal Council Member Sunil Watagala also participated.





Unintelligent design

January 1, 2014, 12:00 pm

With reference to the article entitled "The verdict on Intelligent Design" written by V. J. M. de Silva on The Island (Dec 25), the writer has used modern scientific terminology to establish his biasness towards Intelligent Design (ID) and pseudo-science which he claims to be science, which a free inquirer would deem to be nonsensical when the scientific inquiry is applied without preconceptions.

Elements, needed for life as we know it, are produced in stars which work like nuclear reactors operating like hydrogen bombs in slow motion but billions times more powerful and their nuclear waste is new elements. Fusion reactions inside young stars release enormous amounts of energy and heat which force atoms to fuse together to form new heavier elements one after the other. When giant stars produce iron, their energy is not enough to fuse iron which absorbs energy, destabilizing stars which make them collapse in on themselves creating incredible amounts of energy and enormous explosions called supernovae. These explosions are so powerful that they can fuse elements even heavier than iron, such as, gold and platinum and blow off gas and dust across vast spaces. Consequently, dark pillars of cosmic dust millions of millions miles long spawn a new generation of stars and planets with rich elements that enable life to evolve under right conditions.

Theoretical physicist Lawrence M. Krauss said: "Every atom in your body come from a star that exploded. And, the atoms in your left hand probably came from a different star than your right hand. It really is the most poetic thing I know about physics: You are all star dust. You couldn't be here if stars hadn't exploded, because the elements: carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, iron all the things that matter for evolution and for life weren't created at the beginning of time. They were created in the nuclear furnaces of stars, and the only way for them to get into your body is if those stars were kind enough to explode.... The stars died so that you could be here today."

Planet earth is also considered to have been seeded with organic material by meteorites which have been found to contain amino acids. A complex combination of molecules created the first life on earth about 3.5 billion years ago, prokaryotes – bacteria and other life forms which do not have nuclei. Prokaryote bacteria performed a primitive kind of photosynthesis converting light energy into chemical energy for life. About two billion years ago, new red chemicals began appearing in rocks. These red layers were oxides indicating that a large amount of oxygen was being introduced into the atmosphere. In two billion year old rocks, there is evidence of prokaryotes which were more complex than bacteria layered fossils similar to those left today by blue-green algae. These long chains of blue-green algae carried out complete photosynthesis in which oxygen was given off as a waste product. Oxygen produced by prokaryotes must have been poisonous to organisms which evolved in the previous oxygen free world. For those able to adapt, there was a substantial benefit – a better way to get energy from food molecules using oxygen. About a billion years ago, Eukaryotes (cells with nuclei) began appearing on the planet in the backdrop of increasing oxygen level. This set the stage for a greater evolutionary process crowning Homo sapience sapiens as the dominant species.

When the true scientific enquiry is instituted, it eventually leads to an unavoidable conclusion that ID is not only unnecessary but also redundant. The evolutionary process is based on trial and error. Organisms become extinct when they are unable to adapt to a given environment. Evolutionary Biologist Richard Dawkins said: "The universe we observe has precisely the properties we should expect if there is, at bottom, no design, no purpose, no evil and no good, nothing but blind pitiless indifference."

Even common sense knowledge alone provides enough evidence to banish the notion of ID. For instance, in some societies, a small number of people indulge in all luxuries while the majority is suffering in poverty. If a designer ever had a hand to trigger evolution, he must be accountable to initiate evolution that ultimately leads to bring utter misery to a larger section of society. In a society like India, people are tied down to a caste system and all those who are said to have been born into low caste families are deprived of every opportunity to have a decent living standard. Why did any designer intend to give birth to an evolution that culminates in agonising people? By observing the farcical nature of the Indian society laden with the caste system, mind-numbing religious rituals and illiteracy which drag people to abject poverty, former Indian Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru said: "It is science alone that can solve the problems of hunger and poverty, of insanitation and illiteracy, of superstition and deadening custom and tradition, of vast resources running to waste, or a rich country inhabited by starving people... Who indeed could afford to ignore science today? At every turn, we have to seek its aid... The future belongs to science and those who make friends with science."









There was a broad recovery in Western markets with the recovering US up 30 percent and even troubled Greece up 24 percent.

In Sri Lanka stock values rose 13.4 percent to 2,460 billion rupees up from 2,167 billion rupees a year earlier.

Foreign investors who dumped stocks in the bubble years are now returning to Sri Lanka being net buyers for the second year in a row.

Foreigners pumped in 34.1 billion rupees to Sri Lanka stocks in 2013, down from 40.2 billion rupees in 2012.

There was a non-market-driven surge of corporate debt triggered by a one-off state intervention where unprecedented tax breaks were given to listed bond holders. Among the largest purchasers of the tax free bonds were banks.





'Goldi Sands'invests for future: enjoys 88% occupancy

January 1, 2014, 6:18 pm

By Harischandra Gunaratna

Lal DissanayakeGoldi Sands Hotel, Negombo has become popular among the overseas holidaymakers as well as domestic travellers due to its affordable prices and friendly service and during the period January –March every there are about 20-25 repeat guests visiting the hotel said its General Manager Lal Dissanayake.

"The three star beach hotel with 71 well appointed rooms with two suites and provides a four star service and the hotel is patronised by high end travellers as well as the small and medium market and it maintains an occupancy level of 88 percent year around as the hotel provides value for money in a competitive market," he said.

There is a variety of cuisine offered by the hotel and its Sunday Buffet is quite popular among the Sri Lankans as well as foreigners for its variety and the vast spread delicacies, Dissanayake said.

Hotel's Chefs have proved their culinary expertise by winning 12 medals at the last Culinary Art exhibition in August at the BMICH by winning 12 medals with four golds and their knowledge and experience have helped improve variety and quality, he added.

Goldi Sands is one of the oldest hotels in the Negombo resort and has gone through its phases over the years having inaugurated in 1976 during the period of the Non –Alligned Summit in Colombo.

The Chairman of the hotel Eric Suriyasena , Managing Director Suresh Weerasuriya and Director Finance Harin Fernando have great plans for the future with the burgeoning tourism industry and one of the first moves would be the investing on a spa which is scheduled to open in late January.

"Germans and Dutch are topping the list among the foreign guests and a number of Swedes also visit here during the winter . The list topped by Germans followed by Dutch," the General Manager said.

Although the British topped the list in the previous years, of late the number has dropped down the order perhaps due to high cost of air travel and recession in that part of the world forcing them to travel short haul on holidays, he explained adding that more meaningful promotions are needed in this sector of the market.

Among the many repeat clients of Goldi Sands is 94-year-old Dr Rees from Munich, Germany who visits the property every year and enjoys a three month holiday with his wife, Dissanayake stressed.

The laid back atmosphere,delectable cuisine and friendly service have made Goldi Sands a soughtafter hotel among both domestic travelers and foreign visitors, the General Manager said.

Dissanayake, a seasoned campaigner in the industry has worked in the intercontinental and Sheraton chains in Germany and other parts of the world before joining here.





100,000 sachets of black henna past sell-by date seized

January 1, 2014, 9:38 pm

by Dilanthi Jayamanne

The Consumer Affairs Authority (CAA) yesterday took into custody over 100,000 sachets of black henna past date of expiry at Grandpass area.

Spokesman for the Ministry of Co-operative International Trade (Co-OIT), Nipun Ekanayake said that henna which was of a different brand had been repacked. There were also 15,000 tubes of lipsticks, over 1000 types of creams and 1,500 other cosmetics which included body sprays, colognes and perfumes.

The total value of the cosmetics taken into custody during the raids carried out by the CAA was over Rs. 13 million. They were all packed and ready for the market, he said.

The raids were carried out by the CAA on information given by the Colombo North Police.

The spokesman said that the use of cosmetic items past their shelf life was harmful to humans and could cause allergies and other complications. The Ministry warned that it would take legal action against those responsible for retailing such products to unsuspecting consumers.





GL underscores need for public servants to work collectively

January 1, 2014, 9:38 pm

A special Ceremony was held at the Ministry of External Affairs with the participation of all Ministry staff for the commencement of official duties for the year 2014. Following the hoisting of the National Flag by Prof. G.L. Pieris, Minister of External Affairs at the Ministry premises on 1st January 2014, and the singing of the National Anthem, two minutes of silence were observed to commemorate war heroes and others who had sacrificed their lives on behalf of the country. Members of the staff took an Oath of the Public Service to perform their functions with efficiency, determination and dedication as Public Servants, contributing towards the development of the country.

The Minister addressing the Ministry staff,welcomed the New Year as an opportunity for all members to work with a renewed sense of dedication and duty.

Prof. Peiris highlighted the need for all officers and staff, regardless of their levels to perform and carry out their responsibilities and duties, with greater care and dedication and not to evade or shirk their duties; but to work together and find solutions to problems. The Minister underscored the need for all public servants to work collectively to counter the adverse perceptions aimed at Sri Lanka and to change current mind-sets.

The Minister noted that there were many challenges ahead and the need for all to work together constructively and towards the larger purpose of contributing to the efforts of President Mahinda Rajapaksa and Government of Sri Lanka's economic and social development priorities. He noted the expansion of Sri Lanka's diplomatic relations since independence in 1947 and noted the new direction in Sri Lanka's foreign policy taken since the end of the war. He appreciated that Sri Lanka was reaching out to more countries, highlighting the example of Africa, where diplomatic relations with 15 countries had been established in the last two years. The Minister noted recent High Level visits to countries such as Uganda, Tanzania, Kenya and Seychelles. The Minister highlighted CHOGM as one of the achievements of 2013, where Sri Lanka would continue to enhance and expand its relations. He noted the steady economic and social development agenda of the government, had contributed to Sri Lanka being among the most stable country in the region with a rising human development index. He noted that Sri Lanka had surpassed many of its Millennium Development Goals (MDG) targets.





Disasters hit 1.6 mn people, but Met equipment remains outdated – UNP

January 1, 2014, 9:24 pm

by Zacki Jabbar

Billions of rupees had been wasted on government propaganda exercises but the Meteorological Department was not properly equipped and the Disaster Management Website, too, remained outdated due to lack of funds, an Opposition legislator charged yesterday.

Eran Wickremeratne MP told The Island it was shocking that despite a total of over 1.6 million people being affected by disasters in the last two years, the Rajapaksa regime could not find just one billion rupees to update equipment at the Meteorological Department.

How much it would cost to upload the latest data on to the Disaster Management Department's Website, he queried, pointing out that the fearful and sad memories of the 2004 December tsunami which destroyed 41,000 lives were still very much alive, but the authorities could not find the small sum of money to provide the public with information of critical importance.

The Disaster Management Act of 2005 required that the National Plan to deal with calamities be made known widely. If the Disaster Management Ministry could not even disseminate timely information one could imagine how it would respond in a crisis situation, the MP observed.

When one looked at the billions of rupees expended on ego boosting exercises, not to mention the unprecedented corruption which had resulted in the National Debt zooming from nearly Rs. 2 trillion in 2005 to Rs. 6.6 trillion in just eight years, Wickremeratne said, the failure to provide the required finances to buy equipment and provide updated information crucial for the peoples very existence, could be described as a national crime.

MP Wickremeratne recalled that when the Disaster Management Minister Mahinda Amaraweera was questioned recently in Parliament why the vacancies at the Meteorological Department had not been filled, his reply had been that he expected the Ministry of Public Administration to do it.

While there were pending natural disasters in the Matale and Ratnapura Districts due to haphazard mining and soil erosion, the Geological Survey Department had indicated that there were plate movements and other geological factors that may cause calamities, he noted urging the government to heed the warnings given by scientists.





Hilton revelry dampened by stage collapse

January 1, 2014, 12:00 pm

By Madura Ranwala and Norman Palihawadana

What remains of the stage. Pic by Saman Abesiriwardena

About 15 youth were injured and rushed to the Nawaloka hospital after an out door stage platform put up at the Colombo Hilton for the New Year Celebration collapsed in the early hours of yesterday. The injured guests comprised more females than males.

Informed sources said that one of the sons of President Mahinda Rajapaksa was to arrive at the stage built close to the hotels sports complex, but they declined to comment further as he had not been seen on stage.

Hotel sources also declined to comment on the platform collapse and the guests who were on it, but said that they would issue a press release regarding the incident.

They had been drinking heavily and dancing on one of the four stages put up by the Organisers for the New Year's Eve party when the incident happened, police sources said.

An injured couple who declined to be identified said that the incident happened due to the stage being overloaded with revelers. They said that they were dancing on the stage where the tragedy occurred. The incident had occurred around midnight.

Injured had been rushed to the hospital in private ambulances and hotel vehicles, sources said.

According available sources a five member police team had been deployed by the Fort Police station in the vicinity of the hotel at the time as the hotel management had informed the police of their arrangements that night.

Four stages had been put up by the organisers near the pool area adjoining the tennis court of the hotel.

Another person who witnessed it from a high rise office near the hotel, said a four feet high stage collapsed from a side.

Police sources also said that the injured had received only minor cut injuries and bruises from falls.









Opportunity for A/L qualified to become Graduate Chemists

January 1, 2014, 7:31 pm

Late applications are now being entertained by the Institute of Chemistry Ceylon to enable students who have qualified at the A/L examination to follow at a very low cost and without any delay the Graduate ship Programme in Chemistry offered continuously for the past 36 years at a Special (Honours) Degree level. This programme which has enabled the production of almost 1000 Graduate Chemists for national development was very recently formally accredited by the Royal Society of Chemistry in the UK for even the award of the higher level Chartered Chemist designation.

Professor J N Oleap Fernando, the Rector of the College of Chemical Sciences, states in a media release that the next programme which will enable those admitted to pass out before the end of 2017 will be formally inaugurated on January 4 2014 at Adamantane House, 341/22, Kotte Road, Rajagiriya by K R Dayananda, a distinguished alumnus from the very first batch who recently retired as a Senior Research Officer from the Industrial Technology Institute. Dayannda who is presently working as a Consultant to the Silver mill Group was recently elected as a Vice-President of the Institute and will very soon become the first Institute Graduate Chemist to become its President.

All those interested in joining the programme are advised to contact the Institute Headquarters (phone 2861653/2861231) at the above address (near Rajagiriya Post Office) immediately for more information. They could also visit the website www.ichemc.edu.lk and download application forms free of charge and attend a dedicated orientation session to be held on January 3rd 2014 at 10 am at the same address.





Drugs: Wellampitiya OIC being grilled by CCD

January 1, 2014, 9:22 pm

By Madura Ranwala

Colombo Crime Division is grilling Wellampitiya Officer-in-Charge Bandara Munasinghe on a seven day detention order from the Hulftsdorp magistrate to ascertain how he got drugs and hid them in the almirah in his official house.

Meanwhile his wife, a former Woman Police Constable, was taken into custody yesterday soon after the husband's arrest and she is being interrogated.

She was arrested following the statement made by her husband to the CCD that she collected drug money amounting to Rs. 150,000 from a go-between in the drug business. Police found in the almirah Rs. 181,000 and 42 grammes of heroin when the OIC was arrested.

Earlier, two suspects including a woman was arrested in the area on drug charges. So far police have arrested five suspects including the OIC and wife, but four were being grilled under detention order. The wife of the OIC had not been produced in court yet as the police were questioning her to find out whether she was involved in the crime.

CCD arrested the OIC after soliciting solid information from the two suspects arrested earlier and verifying their information about how they got the drugs from the go-between for selling in the area, where the OIC was the head of the police station.

The arrested go-between is a close friend of the OIC and he had distributed heroin collected from the OIC, to the suspects arrested earlier, investigations so far conducted had revealed.

Police spokesman SSP Ajith Rohana, addressing a media briefing yesterday at the Police Headquarters, specially to make public aware of the scandal the police are now faced with, said that the police would not hesitate to prosecute any person behind the racket even politicians.

When a journalist pointed out that the go-between the OIC used was a close friend of an area local government member, the SSP Rohana said that he too would be arrested and prosecuted if substantial evidence against him was found, and added that the police would not arrest a person on hearsay, but on substantial evidence because that person could sue the police for false arrest.

He also said that certain media institutions highlighted certain rackets but the police needed evidence to act.

He also said that the OIC under interrogation had revealed that he did not sell drug but chemical substance which could be mixed with pure heroin. Therefore, the police had to wait until the Government Analyst's report to get it confirmed though it was found to be heroin in the initial investigation.





Sri Lanka Cancer Society wins 12-year-old case in District Court

January 1, 2014, 8:23 pm

After prolonged litigation over twelve years the Sri Lanka Cancer Society won its claim to a valuable property at Queen's Road, Colombo 3.

On the basis of the last will of George Alfred Hettiaratchi the title of this property passed on to the Sri Lanka Cancer Society subject to the reservation of life interest in favour of his wife the 1st defendant.

This claim was contested by the widow of Mr. Hettiaratchi who alleged that she becomes entitled to the property concerned on the basis of an executor's conveyance, she herself being the executor.

Subsequently she had sold the property for Rs.37 million to the second defendant International Distilleries Lanka Ltd.

Much of the dispute arose as the original of the last will was not produced by either party. Not even the protocol was available. The curious circumstance is that this protocol was the last in a bundle of documents in the lawyer's office and over time it had got detached from the rest of the documents in that bundle.

The photostat copy of the protocol being the only copy available, the situation was ripe for prolonged controversy. Fortunately the Registrar of the District Court had made certain observations in his report to court which clearly showed there was a beneficiary other than the Sri Lanka Cancer Society under the last will and therefore the widow (1st Defendant) could not be the sole beneficiary.

Thus the first defendant's claim she was the sole successor to the estate of the deceased Mr. Hettiaratchi could not be sustained. In fact Court held the deed in favour of the widow was fraudulent and that no right title or interest passed to her. This was the crux of the case.

Accordingly the widow's claim was dismissed and judgment entered in favour of the Sri Lanka Cancer Society which thus becomes the owner of a valuable property on Queens Road the income of which will be utilized for the benefit of the cancer patients at the premises of the Sri Lanka Cancer Society at Maharagama which was the intention of the deceased Mr. George Alfred Hettiaratchi.





Former Deputy Minister of Tourism Nirupama Rajapaksa seems to be exploring the array of delicacies prepared by Taj Samudra's Executive Chef Dhaithya Krawage and his team at the Latitude.Chef Krawage is looking on

Chandran Rutnam film director of International fame flanked by Kosala Wickramanayake, President Chamber of Commerce (left) and Bhaswara Gunaratna ,Chairman Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority Pics by Harischandra Gunaratna





