The Lassy I know, not only as a journalist or an editor, but as a close family friend and I would be failing profusely in my duty by him if I don't share some sentiments about him.

The man I came to know over the years had a gentle side to him which when you read the Leader you may never realize. He had a smile that never seemed to die. He had a vision and many a hopes for this country. He believed he could make a difference. He did make a difference - huge difference - in all of our lives. Come Sunday, he'd call me early morning to analyze what's written in The Leader. We'd share everything. We'd argue. And if that wasn't good enough, he'd visit us, and over some juice, we'd do it again. Words were exchanged, heated arguments, but at the end of it all we'd settle down to have our meal as if nothing ever happened.. as if we've only ever agreed on things..

Our home was his, some days we didn't even have to be home, he would come, make himself comfortable, read the papers and leave when he needs to. My family was his own, my children and grand children were like his, their problems his, with his great big smile he welcomed us into his heart and he became a permanent fixture in our lives and in our hearts.

Whenever he visited, he always spent time with my children, joking, laughing and being his affectionate self. Whenever he shared a meal with us, he'd ask my wife to pack something for his daughter, saying she'd like it, too. He would always talk about his children with my own. He missed them dearly and was never afraid to show it. Everyone assumed that his pen and penmanship came above all else, even his own three children. But I have never met another man whose love for his children superseded everything else. His words to me, not too long ago, still ring in my ear. He said "Machan, I have left everything I've ever owned for my children. They're my life. There is nothing left for me, I've not saved anything for myself? All I am left with now is my pen." He was a loving father, not only to his children but to my own.

Some days back, Lassy, some mutual friends and myself, were engaged in our usual banter and we asked him to be careful because of the threat to his life. His answer to that was "I'm not worried, I'm doing this, leaving my life hanging, and for this nation, I am ready to sacrifice my life, but one thing, when and if they do, please don't just take my body to the cemetery and bury me. Make the most of it and use it to take my struggle forward. In that case I'm ready to lay down my life."

The man everyone knows is one who strove to make the - "wrongs" of this world "right". He lay down his life for us. His determination to make this world a better place, for all those who cared, carved a path towards his murderous death. He was a real true hero, a brave and courageous one. Small he may have been in built, but he was a man among men, packed in strength, power, emotion and determination.

He was truly loved by us all, He left a void that will never be filled in my life and my family. Our lives will never be the same again. He will be missed immensely, for always...

"Death comes to all, but great achievements build a monument which shall endure until the sun grows cold."

Ralph Waldo Emerson

"What lies behind you and what lies in front of you, pales in comparison to what lies inside of you."





