The Navy Monday night thwarted an LTTE attempt to break through a naval cordon off the Mullaitivu coast.

Navy headquarters said that naval units had destroyed four LTTE craft during the engagement and forced the remaining craft to retreat towards Mullaitivu.

During the clash, Black Sea Tigers had detonated an explosives packed boat close to a Fast Attack Craft (FAC) directing fire at the enemy, causing irreparable damage to the craft.

It was the first major attack launched by Sea Tigers after they totally lost their presence on the north-western coast last November with the liberation of Mannar-Pooneryn coastal road.

Military sources said that the LTTE was on the verge of losing its only access to the sea between Chundikulam and Mullaitivu-a distance of about 20 nautical miles. Yesterday's attack was a desperate attempt to show their presence on the north-eastern coast, a senior defence official told The Island, adding that the 55 and 59 Divisions would cut off the remaining sea access within weeks.

The Navy has deployed a heavy force including over 25 FACs, Offshore Patrol Vessels (OPVs) and a range of other boats to thwart any attempt on the part of the LTTE leadership to escape.

Subsequently, the navy recovered bodies of two LTTE cadres killed in action.

The 55 Division conducting operations at Chundikulam several hours before the attack on the navy had recovered two LTTE boats including one laden with explosives hidden on the beach.

The recovery was made shortly after a shoot-out between the army and the LTTE.

On the Vanni front, Task Force II and III continued to inflict losses on the LTTE in clashes in the Teravil-Oddussudan jungle area.

Army headquarters said that troops conducting operations east of the Udayarkattukulam tank and south of the Vishvamadukulam tank recovered bodies of seven LTTE cadres, four T 56 assault rifles and one motor vehicle.

Meanwhile, the police yesterday obtained a Court order to bury bodies of 38 LTTE cadres as the ICRC was unable to transfer them to the LTTE held area. The burial was to take place in the presence of the ICRC.





