In 1968, Colin Cowdrey became the first cricketer to play 100 Tests. His achievement was greeted with much revelry. The English public thronged to watch him play at Edgbaston. The Queen sent him a congratulatory letter. He reciprocated the accolades by scoring a 100 in his 100th Test. There were few who could fault Cowdrey's sense of timing of both the ball and the occasion.

By the sharpest of contrasts, Mahela Jayawardene's 100th Test went virtually unnoticed last week. Hardly any of the Sri Lankan papers referred to it. Most Sri Lankan fans were not even aware of it. Mahela did not even bother to make an impact. He plodded against the pedestrian Bangladeshi bowlers to muster 33 off 138 balls.

Is he Selfish?

Mahela, the 48th man to play 100 Tests, may become one of the least respected. Though Mahela accomplished the milestone at a superior average (53 to compare to Cowdrey's 44) and at a younger age, Cowdrey's name will ring louder in cricket's memory.

Sadly for such a gifted man, Mahela may be noted for his selfishness rather than his heroism. Lured by the Indian Premier League (IPL) riches, Mahela is intent on playing as little international cricket as possible. Last year, he led a campaign to cancel the English tour. Politicians were pleaded. Cricketers became activists. The board's dire finances required the US$1.5m guarantee money from the tour. But, Mahela was intent on embarrassing our administrators. The tour was scrapped.

Last week, he compounded SLC's woes by reducing the Pakistan tour from three to two Tests. This is shocking given Sri Lanka's lack of Test cricket. Last year, Sri Lanka played just 6 Tests, while even Bangladesh played 9. This year, we face an empty calendar until June, except for the Pakistan tour.

Poor Away Record

Perhaps, Mahela has a vested interest in restricting his foreign appearances. There is a yawning gap between his home and away records. He is a masterly accumulator at home and an ordinary batsman abroad.

At home, he has reached superlative heights with an average of 66. His chanceless 374 against South Africa at SSC in 2006 was an awesome display of endurance in the savage Colombo heat.

This mammoth knock stands as a monument to his ability.

It ranks as highest Test score by an Asian, the highest score by a right-hander, and the fourth highest Test score. Unlike other triple centurions, Mahela's long vigil actually led to a victory as opposed to a draw. South Africa had a fabled attack consisting of a feared quicks such as Dale Steyn, Makhaya Ntini and Andre Nel. Nicky Boje was fine left-arm spinner.

Abroad, he averages just 39.The extra bounce and the movement have been his undoing. His feet have been leaden. His shot selection has been chancy. In fact, Mahela's average in New Zealand (28) and South Africa (31) are particularly poor.

Part of the problem may be limited opportunities that Sri Lanka has been afforded overseas. But, Mahela is wors

ening the situation by avoiding valuable overseas opportunities. The captain's main priority is to maximize his earnings from the IPL, while restricting Sri Lankan foreign appearance to hopeless opponents like Bangladesh.

Gifted Player who has never

had to Struggle

Mahela is the first captain to play entirely in the happy afterglow of the 1996 World Cup win. Mahela missed the struggle and isolation that shaped the careers of Arjuna Ranatunga, Aravinda de Silva and Sanath Jayasuriya. He entered the team as a prodigious cherub, who was soon elevated to the vice-captaincy. Mahela took the elevator to success, while others took the stairs.

Lest we forget, he is a master of deft touch and timing. His batting is marked by an upright elbow and a straight bat. Blessed with a rock-like defense, Mahela favours the arc between mid-on and mid-off. There are no doubts about his stamina and perseverance at the crease. But often, he flatters, only to deceive, as his overseas record shows.

He should note that the IPL is itself under a cloud. Many franchises are struggling to justify the lavish salaries. Pakistan is threatening to forbid its players from participating.

It was Sri Lanka that propelled his career and not his IPL franchise Kings XI Punjab. There is only way he will be remembered in the same terms as Colin Cowdrey. That is, to give international cricket his top priority.





