Thousands of cinnamon producers suffering the end results of the global financial crisis demand the Government to come to their rescue immediately.

The producers said, should things continue as they are for another month, the cinnamon industry would be wiped out from the country.

The global financial crisis had triggered drastic outcomes on the local cinnamon industry and all stakeholders are in difficulty in being unable to sell the produce, the United Union of the Cinnamon Producers said yesterday.

"There are over 350,000 cinnamon growers and more than 30,000 cinnamon peelers in Galle, Matara, Ratnapura, Kalutara and Hambantota district. All of them are hit by the price reduction. The producers used to get around Rs 800-900 per kilogram for fine grades of cinnamon. Now the prices have come down to Rs 450. Planters, producers and processors and their family members are confronted with the problem of survival. If the government further delays to redress this situation, the entire industry and people living on it will have no other means but to take to the streets," Convener of the UUCP, JVP MP Ajith Kumara told a press conference held at the National Library's auditorium yesterday.

Prices of cinnamon have come down from 600-500 per kilogram to Rs 350 per kilogram, he said. The producers find it uneconomical to continue their trades. Even at lower prices such as Rs 350 the producers find it difficult to sell the produce. Dealers and exporters have severe cash flow problems since they are unable to sell their stocks even at a loss. "Exporters say that for the last five weeks no export orders have been received," MP Kumara said.

The middle level buyers are yet to pay for most of the exports already made and they have delayed or cancelled the earlier orders placed that were to be shipped. "If the trend continues for one more month, the cinnamon industry in Sri Lanka will face a natural death.

The Government had failed to address this drastic problem and though it had promised to provide relief through the stimulus relief package last month, most of the promises remained only words, he said.

Cinnamon is the fourth highest in the list of foreign income and Sri Lankan cinnamon is considered the world's best. The crop grown in an estimated 70575 acres has immunity for many diseases and it could be harvested twice a year. "We produce 10 percent of the world market. The rest of 90 percent is low quality cinnamon brand called cassia comes from China, Vietnam, Indonesia and Malaysia. If the government makes a serious effort, our cinnamon known as fine cinnamon world over has no competition to gain in the remaining 90 percent," MP Kumara said.

The cinnamon industry which consist of 80% small holders who are in serious difficulties and are unable to meet their day to day needs and also are unable to pay the cinnamon peelers and workers and this would lead to a lot of social unrest amongst the cinnamon peelers, workers and small holders.

The UUCP demands that the President and the Government take serious note of the plight of the small holders, workers and cinnamon peelers in particular and the whole cinnamon industry in general of the crisis situation it is facing currently.

The UUCP suggests that Government commence a programme immediately to fund a minimum price support scheme for the cinnamon producers, 30% price support on fertilizer used and give the exporters and dealers who are carrying large stocks a relief on interest paid to the banks.

It demands a fresh interest free capital for exporters and dealers to purchase the cinnamon produced by the small holders.

"It time to act speedily to protect the cinnamon industry from a total collapse," the MP said.

Southern Provincial Council Member Sena Ratnayake and ex-co member of the UUCP also participated in the conference.





