It is extremely seldom that one enjoys the opportunity of feeling good about politicians. Therefore, the consistent and courageous stand taken by the (truly) honourable Mr Rajapakse as Chairman of COPE needs to be recognized and commended as widely as possible. It is therefore extremely gratifying that the LMD magazine has chosen him as the "Sri Lankan of the Year for 2007". There are however ominous signs, so sadly characteristic of our society that like so much that stinks, the staggering suggestions of dishonesty may be swept under the carpet. COPE and its Chairman are gradually and willfully made to disappear from the public radar. The totally predictable character assassination of Mr R has begun, but the effort has been so feeble that it has been a monumental damp squib. The next phase would be to ease him out of COPE and possibly Parliament as well. Retain the bathwater and throw out the baby! The inactivity of those who can do something to clear the palpable reality of widespread corruption is baffling if not for the realization that they would fear that the searchlight may trap them too in its beam! Equally puzzling is the stony aloofness of the many members who have "served" in COPE, drawn its allowances and consumed its pastries and sandwiches, but choose to leave the Chairman to crusade on his mission entirely alone! Perhaps the media should name them – and leave the discerning public to shame them!

Amazingly and amusingly, there now appears to be a scramble to claim priority for discovering the scams! While ignoring the alarm bells sounded by the Auditor-General, COPE and the Public Accounts Committee (PAC), Inland Revenue has suddenly awakened to say "We knew this all along". Great, but apart from promoting themselves, what else did they do?

There is no doubt that the people of this country have the wisdom to recognize true worth and integrity. Mr Rajapakse has (or should have) a great future. Provided he maintains consistent integrity and honesty. Any straying from the straight and narrow path will spell doom for him. This should not be difficult as there are so few of his calling on this path of rectitude to obstruct him! He and Mr Hakeem (of PAC ) must expect and vigorously combat the inevitable efforts to denigrate and vilify them personally by those of guilty conscience.

Civil society should watch avidly to ensure that rogues be suitably dealt with. Early disclosure of the Institutions and persons against whom incriminating evidence exists will help clear the air for innocents whose names are being bandied around. In the minds of people, the French system prevails – all are considered guilty until proven innocent.

It may be opportune also to think in terms of possible punishments to those proven to be rogues. Capital punishment for seven figure fraud may be open to contention. Jail terms, on a graded system, ranging from life imprisonment and confiscation of all property to appropriate fines based on magnitude of theft, might well be planned for in advance, to avoid personality-based partiality. Included should be a proviso that jail terms may not be served in comfortable hospital wards. Pilferers of public property should not be entitled to further taxpayer hospitality. Those convicted should be placed in public labour (garbage cleaning, keeping public spaces and property clean, road work, hospital services etc.) to earn their keep. In this instance, to hell with human rights! Robbers of the poor forfeit their claim to humanity!





