Wage increases should be linked to productivity - Employers Increments cannot be ad hoc, should be free from arbitrary interventions

By Devan Daniel

Like the Central Bank says of the public sector, the Employers' Federation of Ceylon reiterates its stance that wage increments should be accompanied by productivity improvements.

The Ministry of Labour 'ordered' the Labour Commissioner to summon the wages boards so that negotiations can be expedited to increase private sector wages 'similar' to the Rs. 2,500 wage increment of the public sector.

Responding to this, Employers' Federation of Ceylon (EFC) Director-General Ravi Peiris, in a letter to the Minister of Labour, said adjustments to private sector wages cannot be done in an ad hoc manner and there should not be any 'arbitrary interventions'.

"Wage fixation in the private sector must necessarily depend on the capacity of the employer and market rates," Peiris said.

"At a time when some enterprises are still facing difficulties in terms of maintaining their markets and being pressurized to reduce prices, a wage increase of Rs 2,500 will undoubtedly put them out of business. It would also result in the closure of many enterprises, which would in turn result in loss of jobs to many workers.

"In the circumstances, whilst we do agree that the Commissioner General of Labour has the authority to summon Wages Boards for consideration of a revision in minimum wages it will be totally unreasonable for him to make a suggestion of a wage revision of this magnitude at this juncture. In any event, you would also agree that whatever wage adjustments are made through the Wages Boards need to be done in accordance with the provisions of the law in terms of the Wages Boards Ordinance," he said.

Productivity improvements...

Peiris in his letter goes on to say the EFC was surprised by the Labour Ministry's move to summon the wages boards.

"Such a proposal was never discussed or debated at the last National Labour Advisory Council meeting last held in November 2009.

"In fact, you would recall that what was in the agenda for discussion on that day was a proposal by the Ministry to explore possibilities of introducing a 'productivity linked wage mechanism."

The Central Bank last November advised the government not to consider public sector wage hikes in 2010 other than those accompanies by improvements in productivity, given the position of public sector finances.





