A well-developed infrastructure system is a pre-requisite for the development of the bond market. Therefore, more efforts have been taken to improve the clearing and settlement system in the bond market and strengthen the regulatory framework.

Introduction of Scripless Securities Settlement System (SSSS), Real Time Gross Settlement System (RTGS), Central Depository System (CDS) and Delivery Versus Payment (DVP) System were major initiatives to improve the clearing and setilement system in the bond market. The provision of Intraday Liquidity Facility (ILF) through the Central Bank and allowing PD to access to the Central Bank repo window was considered as new developments to improve the liquidity and eliminate the settlement risk in the market.

A narrow investor base, due to high concentration on the publicly managed captive sources (such as Employees Provident Fund, Employees Trust Fund and National Savings Bank), was a major issue in the investment front which needed aggressive marketing campaign to diversify the investor base in the bond market. As lack of awareness was recognized as a main reason for low demand from local investors, the Central Bank and primary dealers, specially targeting regional investors in to the bond market, have conducted a joint awareness campaign. Specially in 2007, the Central Bank has conducted an aggressive awareness campaign. This programme mainly covered by issuing newspaper advertisements, printed documents, conducting seminars and media discussions targeting prospective investors. Until 2006, rupee denominated government securities market was restricted for foreign investors. Recognising the advantages of attracting foreign investment into this market, Treasury bond market was opened for foreign investors in 2006 with limited access facility.

In the corporate bond market, the government has initiated series of measures to improve the infrastructure and provided several concessions for, investors in order to develop the bond market. Among them, major initiatives include improvements of the infrastructure in trading bonds in the market. In addition, a decision taken by the SEC to open a training college to improve the capacity of market players would help to create an efficient corporate bond market.

Roadmap for Development of Bond Market

The overall strategy towards developing the domestic bond market for the year 2007 and beyond has to focus on the improvement of the efficiency, liquidity, growth and transparency of the bond market. In this process, urgent attention need to be given to resolve the existing impediments discussed earlier. Since the government Treasury bonds dominate in the local bond market, a priority could be given for the development of Treasury bond market. The developed Treasury bond market would play a benchmark role and could give a complementary effect for the development of the corporate bond market.

In designing the Roadmap, a more comprehensive approach is required covering all the components in the bond market: institutions, markets, instruments and infrastructure. Because prioritizing the development of one segment of the bond market such as building an efficient infrastructure would not guarantee the development of the bond market unless other components of the market too improved in line with the development of the infrastructure. In addition, setting a clear timeframe for the implementation of the policy framework is important for sequencing the policy measures from short term to long term period.

The efficient implementation of the Roadmap for the development of bond market depends on the macroeconomic environment in the country. Maintaining price stability is a necessary condition to create a conducive environment for the development of the bond market and improve the perception in the market. In this context, more attention is required to maintain the stability in the fiscal sector as it has significant impact on the overall macro management that lead to the stability of prices in the economy. Therefore, government's firm commitment to improve the fiscal operations ensuring the ability of consolidating the medium term fiscal path would help improve market perception and actions in the bond market.

Role of Central Bank and Government in developing Bond Market

The development of Treasury Bond Market is primarily a responsibility of the Central bank, while Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) involve in the development of corporate bond market. However, the government involves in the improvement in the overall bond market, giving guidance to respective institutions to design the development strategy in line with the government's medium term macroeconomic policy framework.

The Central Bank has to continue its responsibility in developing the Treasury Bond Market as the public debt management function is vested with the Central Bank. Accordingly, the Central Bank can directly intervene into the functions of Treasury Bond Market as an issuer deciding issuance (auction) techniques, bidding pattern, type of bonds, maturity structure, number of series, volume of each series and time of issuance. A designing of these features with a long term vision is important to improve the market liquidity, develop the bond market yield curve and efficient price discovery in the bond market.

As a regulator, the Central Bank can strengthen the primary dealers system by appointing suitable dealers, deciding minimum requirements, regulating primary dealer operations and directing them for market making process in the bond market. Furthermore, the Central Bank can directly involve in developing the bond market infrastructure related to improvement of payment and settlement system and set up a prudent regulatory framework.

In addition, the Central Bank can play an advisory role in formulating the national policy related to the bond market operations focussing further opening of bond market for foreign investors and taxation of intermediaries and instruments in the bond market in order to maintain the consistency with the macroeconomic framework that encourages activities in the bond market. Finally, the Central Bank can lead the awareness campaign and capacity building programme to popular bonds among investors and improve skills of market operators.

The SEC and the CSE are vested jointly the responsibility of undertaking the main role of the developments in the corporate bond market. These functions include improvement of the infrastructure and liquidity in the bond market. In order to maintain the consistency and the level playing field across bond market, the medium term corporate bond market developments could be designed to follow the steps taken forward in the Treasury bond market. In addition, these two institutions can advise the government to formulate the national policy framework to create consistent and conducive policy environment for the development of the corporate bond market.

The government has to play a pivotal role in the overall development of the local bond market. The capital market development has been one of the key topics in the government policy agenda and a series of policy measures have been adopted to boost activities in the bond market. The appointment of the capital cluster, a high level policy body represented by key players in the capital market was a major event to review the existing issues and advise the government to introduce new policies to develop the bond market.

However, a critical review of the overall bond market in a more coordinated manner is required to get the maximum benefits out of the development process. In addition, the required changes need to be introduced to the overall macro policy framework and especially to the financial system in the country to create a consistent and conducive environment for the development of the bond market.

Concluded

The writer is Additional Superintendent, Public Debt Department, Central Bank of Sri Lanka.





