It is common knowledge that there are two main types of cholesterol namely (a) low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol or bad cholesterol and (b) high density lipoporotein (HDL) cholesterol or good cholesterol. Persons with low HDL cholesterol (less than 40mg per deciliter in men and 50mg per deciliter in women) have increased risk of coronary heart diseases (heart attacks and angina) , strokes, blockage of coronary artery grafts , blockage of coronary arteries after angioplasty (PTCA) and peripheral vascular diseases (intermittent claudication). Often persons with low HDL cholesterol levels also have other coronary risk factors such as diabetes , hypertension , high serum triglyceride levels which further increase the risk of cardiovascular deaths.

HDL Levels lower among Sri Lankans

Serum HDL cholesterol levels are lower among Asians than Caucasians and this may be one of the causes of high incidence of heart attacks among young (those below 40 years) Sri Lankans. Therefore Sri Lankans should limit the consumption of vegetable oils as much as possible as there is scientific evidence to show that excessive consumption of vegetable oils such as corn oil decreases the level of HDL cholesterol.

Epidemiologic studies suggest that raising level of HDL retards the development of an atherosclerosis (abnormal thickening of the walls of arteries due to fatty deposits on the inner walls). In humans each increase of baseline HDL of 1 mg per deciliter is associated with 6% decrease in the risk of death from coronary heart diseases or myocardial infarction

HDL cholesterol transports excess cholesterol from peripheral tissues to liver for excretion - a process known as reverse cholesterol transport. In addition , HDL inhibits the oxidation of LDL cholesterol (It is the oxidized LDL which is harmful) HDL may reduce the risk of thrombosis.

How can you increase your HDL

(1) Life - Style Modification

(a) Exercise:

Regular aerobic exercises (e.g brisk walking, jogging, bicycling, swimming etc.) increases the HDL level in healthy (normal) sedentary persons and this increase is more in men with low HDL cholesterol and high triglyceride level and abdominal obesity. Weight loss may be crucial for an increase in HDL cholesterol to occur. You should take aerobic exercises for 30 - 45 minutes per day for at least 5 days of the week.

(b) Smoking Cessation:

Smokers usually have low HDL levels and that is one reason for the high incidence of heart attacks among smokers. After giving up smoking, there is a significant increase in the HDL level.

(C) Weight Control:

Obesity is associated with low HDL cholesterol levels and high triglyceride levels. A reasonable weight loss goal for overweight or obese patients is one pound (0.45Kg) per week with a target body - mass index (BMT) of less than 2 5.

(d) Alcohol Intake:

Moderate alcohol consumption (30g or one fluid ounce of alcohol per day) increases the HDL levels by 4mg per deciliter irrespective of the kind of alcohol. There is no scientific evidence to show that consumption of red wine is superior to consumption of other types of alcohol. Mild to moderate alcohol consumption (no more than one to two drinks per day) appears to be reasonable for many persons with low HDL cholesterol levels.

Sri Lankan doctors should be very cautious in advising our heart patients to consume alcohol in moderation as a significant proportion of these patients ultimately end up with complications of alcohol consumption such as alcohol dependence (addition to alcohol) and alcoholic cirrhosis. The Gene for alcoholism appears to be common among Sri Lankans. Physicians should not advise Sri Lankans to consume alcohol if they have liver disease or if there is a family history of alcoholism. A significant number of my colleagues who used to consume alcohol in moderation during medical school days have died following alcoholic cirrhosis.

(c) Dietary Fat Intake:

Plasma LDL Cholesterol levels and HDL cholesterol levels both-decline with the reduction in the intake of dietary fat. The concomitant decrease in LDL that occurs with diet low in saturated fat may override the effects associated with decline in HDL.

Several drugs are known to increase HDL cholesterol and these include niacin (nicotinic acid) fibrates and statins and these drugs are also known to decrease serum triglycerides.

(a) Niacin:

This is the most effective drug to raise the HDL . Niacin improves the endothelial function and nitric oxide synthase activity, this vitamin is not very popular among Sri Lankan doctors and patients as it has several side - effects such as cutaneous flushing, elevation of blood sugar, loss of appetite and elevation of uric acid.

(b) Fibrates:

Fibrates such as gemfibrozil and fenofibrate increase the HDL level and decrease the level of triclycerides (High triglyceride level in a coronary risk factor). Fibrates because of above effects prevent heart attacks and other coronary events and stroke.

(C) Statin:

Drugs such as lovastatin simvastatin , atorvastatin and rosuvastatin which are used by doctors to decrease the LDL level also raise HDL cholesterol level slightly. Some physicians combine simvastatin with niacin or fibrates in case patients with very low HDL cholesterol.

In conclusion, low HDL level is an independent risk factor for cardiovascular events such as heart attacks, angina, and strokes. Physicians should first try lifestyle modifications and medication should be tried only in high risk patients. In treatment of patients with hyperlipidaemia, one should first attempt to bring down the LDL level and if HDL is still low they should try medication with drugs such as fibrates and statins which have various side - effects such as muscle damage (myositis) and liver toxicity.

Dietary items such as olive oil, soy canola, cashew nuts, peanuts, avacado, walnuts, almonds and cold water fish (such as mackeral and salmon) and shell fish should be recommended for those with low HDL level.

As the gene for alcoholic addiction appears to be high in Sri Lankans, Sri Lankan doctors should be very careful in recommending consumption of alcohol in moderation as our patients (some of them) may end up as alcoholics or get hepatic cirrhosis as the majority of patients gradually increase the quantity of alcohol they consume after a period of time.





