Random Reflections on the Public Service

January 5, 2013, 6:53 pm

By Leelananda De Silva

Introduction

It is called the Public Service as its members are paid from the public purse. The term has nothing to do with the larger and more noble concept of performing a public service, which can be done by anyone from the larger society. A public service employee is a government and state employee, and whether the tasks they perform contribute to the welfare of the public depends on the nature of the government and the state that they serve. In ancient times, those paid by the state served the monarch. Under the British, public service employees served his or her majesty's government, and whether they served the public was a subsidiary issue. Some did, more than others. The golden era of the public service in the country was arguably the period from 1948 – 1977, when there was parliamentary government. During this period, there was a democratic polity, elected by the people, and where the government and the state, and their employees served the public in a relatively transparent manner, and accountable to the public and parliament. Under the presidential system, public employees are serving the government more and the public less.

The public service of any country can be efficient and effective only if other conditions are right. A primary requirement is that the system of public administration in the country should be logically organized in a way that enables the public service to discharge its functions satisfactorily in the interest of the public. When the machinery of government is in disarray, the public service is equally disorganized. When politics is criminalized, and independent institutions like the judiciary, the attorney general, the auditor general, the elections commissioner, the Central Bank, the public accounts committee and the police are interfered with, and there is rampant corruption and bribery in the transaction of public business, there is not much opportunity for a functional public service. Dysfunctionality becomes the norm. In Sri Lanka, the public service alone cannot be reformed. There is a urgent need for reform of the machinery of government, so that its overriding aim is to serve the public and not the interests of the few politicians who are in power.

The British period

From 1796, for 150 years, the British ruled Ceylon. They inherited a feudal system of government which had functioned under authoritarian monarchical regimes. The British while making changes in that system did not abolish it altogether. What they did was to merge the feudal with more modern systems of colonial government. The mudaliyars and the headmen continued to manage the affairs of rural Ceylon. These functionaries were not selected on merit. They were recruited on the basis of caste and family, with the son succeeding the father in these offices in most instances. For the common man, these are the officials that mattered. The more modern system of government as represented by the Government Agents (GAs) and Assistant Government Agents (AGAs) touched the lives of ordinary people only rarely. Until the very late years of British rule, judicial and executive functions were not separate. The AGAs functioned as magistrates and district judges.

During this period, the economic development of the country was predicated on the development of plantations, first coffee and then tea. Along with the plantations came the emergence of a local educated middle class. This class of businessmen, lawyers, public servants and others were beneficiaries from British rule. The public service which gradually expanded during this period largely served the interests of this middle class, which never exceeded 10 – 15 percent of the population. The public service was of benefit to only a minority of the population. Eighty percent of the population was served by mudaliyars and headmen who were feudal chieftains. If the public service in the British period served the public in any way, it was a service to the middle class. Anyway, British public officials were there to serve largely the British raj, and the plantation economy.

The British who ruled Ceylon until about 1900 were themselves governed by a feudal system in Britain itself. The common man and woman did not have the vote until the late 1920s. The House of Lords representing the aristocracy and the monarch himself exercised considerable power. One could not expect more democratic systems in the British colonies. The British officials in Sri Lanka were mostly appointed by the secretary of state for the colonies, who was a politician in Britain. There was no independent Public Service Commission to appoint them. What Ceylon had at that time was British politics in various forms. When it is said that there was no politics in British times, and the politics came after 1948, and disfigured the administrative machinery, one tends to forget that the politicians of that time were the high ranking British officials. The British Governor was basically a British politician, if not in name. When Governor Stubbs deported the young British tea planter, Bracegirdle for having joined the LSSP in the late 1930s, was it not politics?

One should not forget the condition of Ceylon when the British were administering the country. Dr. Ananda Meegama in his recent book "Famines, Fevers and Fear", has described in detail the condition of the eighty percent of the population, which was largely neglected by the British rulers and by the feudal ruling class. In 1900, of the one thousand two hundred village tanks in the Nuwarakalaviya district (now Anuradhapura), only one tank was functioning. Similarly, in an instructive article on the Hambantotoa district (in the Island of 23rd November 2011) the former government archivist Harris de Silva described the near famine conditions of that district at the time of Leonard Woolf. Only a tiny fraction of government budgetary expenditures were allocated to these districts where the vast majority of this population lived. Leonard Woolf might be a liberal administrator, but he had no financial resources at his disposal to undertake any meaningful development of the district.

A significant proportion of the people of Ceylon viewed the British administration in a favourable light. What were the reasons behind this phenomenon? First, in rural Ceylon and for rural people, the British administrators (GAs and AGAs), appeared to be fair and objective in their decisions, and also incorruptible. In contrast, they largely despised the feudal Ceylonese functionaries – the mudaliyars and the headmen with their own local interests and agendas. Second, the middle class in Ceylon, whether educated in English or not, looked upon the British as having given them significant economic and social benefits. An important contribution of the British was also the way they organized the system of administration, with clear lines of responsibility and demarcation of administrative tasks. They left a superb system of administrative organization and method. They attached a high value to the preservation of records, which is vital to efficient administration. Above all, there was the rule of law which applied to all, including high British officials. There was no exemption. For a non- democratic imperial regime, the British were benign rulers. During this period, there were clearly outstanding British public servants who went against the grain and had an attachment to this country and contributed to its advancement, in the midst of significant limitations of resources. There were governors like Gregory and Ward. Dr. W.R. Kynsey initiated the establishment of a national health service. There were many others of this ilk among the British who served Ceylon.

At the end of the British period, there was a system of administration which pragmatically had blended the generalist and the specialist models of administration. The generalists administered the provinces, of which a major task was the maintenance of law and order. Development functions at least until 1931 were rudimentary. The specialists were more to be seen at the centre in Colombo. Many departments (there were no ministries) were headed by specialists, and they reported to the new ministers under the State Council system. Non- civil servants, with specialized experience headed the departments (agriculture, irrigation, education, health, railways, electricity, and public works) and they reported direct to ministers.

Parliamentary government – 1948 – 1977

Sri Lanka had a system of parliamentary government for 30 years. It was a short lived and yet a memorable and highly stimulating experience. At independence in 1948, Sri Lanka had adopted a generalist model of administration at the top. Departments were organized into ministries, and each ministry had a cabinet minister, about 20 of them. A permanent secretary headed each ministry and almost all of them were from the Ceylon Civil Service (CCS). The generalist administrator was placed on top, and the specialists were largely subordinate to the generalist administration. This was following the model in the United Kingdom. There were many other models that could have been followed, like in the USA, Australia and Canada where specialist play a larger role in government. Unlike in India which abolished the Indian Civil Service and established the Indian Administrative Service (IAS), Sri Lanka continued with the CCS for another 15 years. The CCS was a flawed institution after 1955, denying women the right of entry, when institutions like the Central Bank and the Income Tax Department were taking in women and at a time when bright female graduates were passing out of the university.

An important development in public administration was the abolition of the CCS and the establishment of the Ceylon Administrative Service (CAS) in 1962. By the time it was established, merging the CCS and other departmental administrative staff grades which had been established from time to time since about 1931. The new CAS was conceived in haste, and was not the product of reasoned analysis of the administrative needs of the country. The CAS, as it was conceived at the time, was the outcome of negotiations among three interested parties- the CCS, the DRO service, and other administrative staff grades of which there were about fifteen and represented by the Ceylon Administrative Service Association. The CCS (about 100 strong) had strong support from the top echelons of the bureaucracy. The DROs (about 150 of them), were politically powerful, with strong support from the political class. The other staff grades, with varying salary scales, each grade numbering about 25 or 30 or even less, had no powerful ally. The outcome in the form of the structure of the CAS was the result of horse trading among these three groups. The form and structure of the CAS could have been different if it was conceived in relation to Sri Lanka's overall public management demands. It could have been possible to enable officers to go up within their own departmental services and reach the top, thus enabling greater specialization at the departmental level, like in the Department of Inland Revenue.

The 1948 constitution provided for the establishment of a Public Service Commission (PSC). This type of independent PSC existed until 1972. The permanent secretaries were not appointed by the PSC. Other senior public service appointments were made by the PSC directly, either through interviews or through competitive examinations like the CAS. The tasks of appointing middle grade and junior officials were delegated to departmental heads of government. There was a competitive examination for the clerical service. It is my experience that departmental heads who were delegated the task of appointment of officers within their department, carried out their duties fairly and with little political interference. Whenever appointments were made by the PSC directly, there was more opportunity for political influence. Prof. Wiswa Warnapala in his outstanding study "Civil Service Administration in Ceylon" has analyzed the functioning of the PSC during this period, and it is clear that it worked closely with the Prime Minister when making its recommendations. There was a strong political element in all senior appointments.

One of the important characteristics of public administration during this period was the growth of public corporations and statutory boards. These bodies were established by legislation, and stating with the Gal Oya Board in the late 1940s, they came to dominate the economic operations of the state. Banks, transport, ports, civil aviation and the plantation economy (after 1975) were managed by public corporations and statutory boards. There were numerous other areas which were managed through this mechanism. The appointment of the governing boards of these corporations was the responsibilities of the minister concerned and the prime minister. The appointments below that level were made by the boards themselves. There was no institution like the PSC to control or monitor these appointments. The board appointments were largely political in nature. This clearly indicates the very limited role of the PSC in overall government appointments.

During this period of 30 years, apart from the abolition of the Ceylon Civil Service and the establishment of the new Ceylon Administrative Service, many other changes can be observed. In 1970, with a new government, the earlier system of almost exclusive system of appointing permanent secretaries from among generalist administrators was done away with. In 1970, permanent secretaries who were economists, engineers, doctors and educationists were appointed, and there were also many political appointments. Engineering, scientific and economic planning services were created in parallel with the Ceylon Administrative Service. The generalist model at the top was being diluted by an infusion of specialists at the top. The economic management of the country, undertaken in these years primarily by the ministries of finance and planning, were staffed by a large number of economists, specially from the central bank. In 1970, with a new Ministry of Public Administration (the Treasury having given up the role of managing the public service), there was an opportunity for a greater focus on the development of public service capacities through training. This led to the creation of the Academy of Administrative Studies in 1969, which is a landmark in the history of public administration in Sri Lanka.

As we enter the 1970s, we see another development in the shape of greater devolution to the districts and the introduction of politics into the management of district affairs. B.S. Wijeweera in his superb study "A Colonial Administrative System in Transition" has described in some detail, the establishment of the District Political Authority System and that of District ministers. The role of the government agent has been diminished as a result. This trend towards greater devolution to the districts and provinces continued over the next decade or two a politicized provincial administration has emerged as an important feature in public administration in Sri Lanka. Although this would appear as unusual in this country, it is a common feature in all western democracies, where elected bodies and elected personnel determine the policies and strategies for development and management at regional and district levels. Devolution up to 1977 was basically an attempt to give members of parliament a greater role in their own districts. There was no devolution in the form of directly elected politicians managing the affairs of a district or a province. That came later.

(The writer served the Sri Lanka Administrative Service from 1960-77 and was Senior Assistant Secretary of the Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs from 1970-77)





Personal income tax now very low:Treasury Secretary

He said with Sri Lanka is becoming a service economy made up of self-employed and professionals working in legal, healthcare, education or information technology and income tax payments had to be voluntary.

The rates were now low was low enough to ensure compliance, he said.

Income up to 50,000 rupees a month was completely exempt and those earning up to 100,000 has to pay only 2.0 percent, he said.

"For a person earning 100,000 a month that is peanuts," Jayasundera said. "That message must go."

Jayasundera said doctors, lawyers and other professional were now beginning to pay income taxes voluntarily.

Under Sri Lanka's pay as you earn scheme (PAYE) a person with 100,000 rupee of income has to pay 2333 rupees a month. A person earning 150,000 rupees has to pay 7,000 rupees and a person earning 200,000 has to pay 14,000 rupees a month.

Jayasundera said Sri Lanka was now building roads, water supply and other infrastructure are being built and people can see the changes.

Jayasundera said now all public servants and politicians were also paying tax.

He said regional offices of the inland revenue office will give advisory services to people who walk in free of charge.





Dhanurmaas —— The month of the Raas

January 5, 2013, 6:54 pm

By Ravi de Silva

This is the sacred month of Dhanurmaas when Krishna who danced the Ras Lila with the Gopis in Dwapara Yuga , played the Ras again with Sri Andal —- and thereby ushered in the Bhakthi form of religion into the world in the Kali age.

Krishna, the inspiration for Bhakthi was the Poorna Avatar , he who is wrought of the greatest enchantment. A second time a Poorna Avatar

incarnated, it was in our age, as Sai Krishna —- and while He did innumerable miracles, began great humanitarian services, oh, He played the Ras with His devotees too.

Lord, let me be able to speak of the Ras that we too knew for we have lived with you. " Stand before my eyes my King. Let your glance turn my words into flame."

The month of Maarhali ( Dec. 15 — Jan. 15 ) also called Dhanurmaasam, is the sacred month of the Tiruppavai. This poem of thirty verses regarded as the Dravida Veda (the Veda of the South ) and as an Upanishad in itself, was sung by Sri Andal ( 3000 BC was the traditional date ) who brought in the Bhakthi form of religion , ecstatic devotion to a personal God, to the world in the Kali age. It was when the Ras Dance of Krishna was literally re-enacted in her life . At the end of this month of Dhanurmaas of arduous prayer multiple Krishnas appeared in a burst of wonder to dance the Ras with Andal and her friends on a river bank. The culmination of that sublime event was that Andal ' wedded ' the Lord when she physically merged in the idol of Sri Ranganatha (in the temple of Sri Rangam in Tamil Nad ) —- and diappeared.

Andal was indeed the first to enact Bridal Mystique recognised in the highly intuitive planes of Hindu philosophy as the most sublime experience possible. Although she was the forerunner of that mystery so captivatingly symbolised by the Radha-Krishna imagery that drenches all the arts of India, music, dance, painting, literature, this month of the Tiruppavai is not so popularly observed except in South India. Curiously, even less well known generally is that she was the inspiration for Ramanuja the famous philosopher who revered her as the goddess Sri (Lakshmi ), consort of Mahavishnu. (Perhaps this is because the veil is always opaque over the first most sacred sources or beginnings of all spiritual movements. Pearls cannot be loosely flung before men ).

Andal was only sixteen when her life ended at the feet of Sri Ranganatha. The scriptures explain that the Gopis and Gopas , playmates of Krishna in the idyll of Brindavan, were in fact rishis who, not content with the realisations of the Formless Reality, longed for the tangible sweetness of the form of the Lord. It is the secret of how mere village children, cowherds and rustic maids could recognise and run to the Divinity of Krishna in such abandoned devotion.

The Ras, mindless bliss at the nearness of the Lord, is sometimes of eternal absorption as in the case of Andal; sometimes it is when the bonds of the caged personality shatter and a vast sight of wonder of what you yourself could be, is known. In this Dhanurmaasam that celebrates Sri Andal we say, with tears running down, how blessed we too were Lord Sai for.......you played the Ras with your devotees too.

In the early days when Bhagwan was living in the Paata Mandir ( the old Mandir before Prashanthi Nilayam was built ) He was about to walk out to the Chitravati banks as He did every evening when an eight year old child ran up on her own bringing His sandals to place before Him.

Swami, moved at her instinctive reverence, stroked the child lovingly. " Tell me what you want. I'll give. "

The child made an unbelivably exalted entreaty. " These sandals are sometimes on your feet. But I want to remain there forever! "

When Swami seemed lost in thought the little girl said clearly, " You said you would give whatever I asked for !"

He tried to cajole her. "You have no father. You are the only solace of your mother. And you are only a child. You have to see so much more of life, learn much more, get married... "

" Even if I get married would my mother not have to send me away to my new home ? "

Bhagwan patted her, non-plussed it seemed. Five days later, on a Thursday, the child did puja to Swami's photograph with flowers and fruits, lay down on her bed —-and left the world.

At a mammoth meeting at Rajahmundry , a small town in Andhra Pradesh, Swami said, " Some may wonder why I am speaking of advaita now. this most abstract concept of philosophy, to an audience of laymen. But what I speak will not go waste. It may enter deep into the heart of at least one or two this very moment and transform them

In that milling crowd was a father and his young son who could barely see anything more than a patch of orange on a distant stage. In a few months the father wrote to Swami, '' My son passed away uttering " Sai!" constantly. Bhagwan, I am thankful for a holy son who had the glorious end of becoming one with your name.''

Swami Himself has very often related this incident of His two schoolmates. Ramesh and Paresh sat on either side of Him in the elementary school. When Swami had to leave Puttaparthi and go to another town for His secondary education the two boys grew crazed. One of them jumped into a well; the other was in a state of intense mental depression.. When Bhagwan visited him and His charanamrutam (the holy water that washed His feet ) was given to the boy—- He merged with Swami. All three of them were only about ten years old.

The Ras was played in a different way too when there was to the outer sight only His mere passing presence.

Massive crowds surged into Puttaparthi during major festivals. I was at the back of the Kulwant Hall one morning submerged and barely alive beneath bodies. The one pressed most tight against me was ramming herself forward trying to get just one half inch closer to the front through that wall of flesh surrounding us.

Then Swami came in the soft orange red glow of the rising sun —- and in a few minutes was directly ahead of us. It was the nearest darshan we would be able to get that day. Just then that woman 's foot struck me. Nothing surprising for I had been buffeted around for the past hour. But now she swung around, almost weeping at the 'sacrilege' of having dug her hard heel against me. She was not looking at Him but only at me, patting me urgently with her fingers.

I was stunned at what was far far more than apology. Instinctively I felt her overpowering humility at having committed this 'wrong' . What was this metamorphosis ? What had happened ?

Was it that the mere shadow of Swami passing by had so touched her depths that she reacted with horror at her foot striking me ? Had His mere sight made her physical body itself unable to bear that slightest spot of dark but had to cleanse itself immdiately —— and not even Swami right there in front could distract her from her convulsing need ?

Was it that strange moment when a man knew his own self in an awarness of clean-ness so engulfing ......

It happened again once more. I was outside the garden wall of the Mandir one morning among a bunch of disgruntled ones who couldn't get inside the courtyard and were expressing their discontent most boisterously. The twilight of the dawn melted away and at precisely seven o' clock as always Bhagwan came out to us. He went by, to the other end where the men were and I took a few steps away to get a better view. When darshan was over I turned back once —- and saw the woman, a shapeless bulk , who had been by my side.

She who had been such a raucous voice of the crowd only a while ago had fallen over the low wall, fallen flat with her huge body sagging on all sides —- fallen in an abandonment that had forgotten everything but a sobbing that convulsed her being. She was weeping, not for any one thing —- she was weeping, unknowing, uthinking — she was weeping in this moment when she felt the pureness of a soul —- and she was weeping for the poverty of her being.

It was not the hour of miracle cures or materialisations. It was the hour a heart felt the cry, "Stand before my eyes my King. Let thy glance touch my life into flame."









ATP begins cracking down on slow play

January 5, 2013, 7:13 pm

By Michael Casey

DOHA, Qatar (AP) — For players prone to bouncing the ball excessively, tugging at their shorts incessantly or taking too long to choose just the right ball, the tennis authorities are coming after you.

A subtle modification in the rules aimed at limiting the delay between points has gone into force in the first week of the season after the ATP, which runs the men's tour, made it easier for umpires to crack down on players who take too long preparing to serve.

"It's the same rule, the 25-second rule. It's just giving the chair umpire a tool to enforce the rule," ATP supervisor Thomas Karlberg told The Associated Press "In the first week, we have been helping the guys during changeovers telling them you have to speed up to make it in time and before the match telling them what is going to happen. If they pass 25 seconds, they get hit."

If the season-opening tournaments in Doha and Brisbane are any indication, the rule is being enforced. There were 36 instances of players being penalised at the Qatar Open as of Friday and quite a number at the Brisbane International.

Those who have suffered include Guillermo Garcia-Lopez of Spain, who lost his first-round match in Doha to Lukas Lacko, and 2006 Australian Open finalist Marcos Baghdatis, who was warned and penalised — losing a first serve — in his semi-final loss in Brisbane to Grigor Dimitrov on Saturday. Many others have been warned, including Olympic and U.S. Open champion Andy Murray in Brisbane and Gael Monfils in Qatar.

The rule modification changes mean an umpire can warn a player that they're getting close to the limit. The penalty for a second and all subsequent violations of the 25-second rule by a server is an automatic fault, and a point penalty for the receiver. Previously, the penalty for multiple violations was a point, although it was rarely invoked.

Slow play between points has been a long-running complaint among fans and some players, and seems to have become worse with players developing intricate routines. Last year's Australia Open final between Novak Djokovic and Rafael Nadal took 5 hours, 53 minutes to complete and while it has gone down in history as one of the classic major finals, it could have been over more quickly if both players hadn't often taken more than 30 seconds between points.

Roger Federer has been among those who have called for time rules to be enforced, complaining last year "how you can go through a 4-hour match with Rafa (Nadal) and him never getting a time violation?" Andy Roddick, before he retired last year, was pushing for an electronic shot-clock like those used in basketball.

The amended rule only applies to ATP World Tour and ATP Challenge Tour events right now, but its enforcement is likely to eventually spill over to the four Grand Slam tournaments which have a tougher, 20-second rule. There will be exceptions to the new rule, such as when a ball boy drops a ball or crowd noise makes play impossible.

"The rule has always been there that you have 25 seconds between points but the ATP Tour hasn't really come down on ... the umpire to enforce it," said Jason Goodall, the former British No. 2 who is working as a TV analyst at the event at the Doha tournament. "What always happened in the past is that umpires felt free to give a warning but then when it gets really tight in a match and players take longer between points, they haven't felt comfortable penalising them a point, so it never has happened. As a sport in general, the ATP Tour wants to see more ball in play time. So rather than watching the players towel down and spend a lot of time between points, they want the play to be quicker so it's better for the fans."

Among the players who have struggled to adjust this week was Monfils, who had a minor meltdown over the time rules during his second-round victory over Philipp Kohlschreiber. Repeatedly warned about his slow play, he argued with the umpire and complained that he would "not be happy" if he lost a first serve during the match.

"I let down my concentration," he said. "If I'm taking time, it's because I'm just like try to dry my hands. So actually, it's not a violation. So then I tried to focus again."

The Frenchman said he was struggling because the rules were being policed too strictly, too quickly, insisting "it was no big deal" if he went one or two seconds over the time limit. Although he liked the concept of the time limit being properly imposed.

"Actually, I like it because I'm the type of player, you know, I play with my physique. So it's cool if you have short time to recovery," he said. "The umpire have to judge if the guy is really taking time because he's tired or whatever or he's taking maybe two or three seconds more because of ball kids."

Murray agreed with enforcing the time limit but thought the crackdown should have been offset by giving players more time between points.

"I'm for them being more strict with the time, but they maybe should have increased the time allowed first, because 25 seconds goes by pretty quick," he said. "We were told the reason for them changing the rule is because of the Aussie Open final last year, which everyone agrees was a classic match ... it's not like the TV hated the match and they're never going to show it again."

Dimitrov was one of the few players who spoke completely in favor of the modified time violation rule. Not surprisingly, considering he got the benefit in a deciding tiebreaker against Baghdatis.

"Rules are rules. They're put out there, so there is not much else I can say about it. I'm sure it put him off a little or something," he said. "It's good. Let's not forget that the players voted for that ... if they want it to be there, it's there."

Goodall and Robbie Koenig, his co-commentator at the Doha tournament, said the challenge now will be to ensure the rule is applied to all players regardless or rank.

"It's fine to do at ATP tour 250 events when perhaps you don't have the likes of a Djokovic or Nadal taking part. But you have to do it when they are playing," Goodall said. "Then in the locker room, players will feel it's a fair rule and implemented across the board. As soon as it becomes subjective for umpire and he thinks 'It was long rally and I'll give them a little additional time to recover,' or 'I know that Nadal likes to take a little longer between points and that is part of his routine so I'll be a bit more lenient,' then you will have problems."

Koenig said the public seems to be in favor of the tougher time enforcement.

"A lot of the feedback we have gotten through social media is that everyone is very much for it," he said. "It will reward those guys that are fitter than some of the other guys they are playing against. If your heart rate is still pumping and you have to get up there and hit a serve, it's a lot tougher to do."





2013 Starts Off with a Bang at Seven Degrees North

January 5, 2013, 6:11 pm

Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo is preparing to start off the year with plenty of activities at Seven Degrees North. Colombo's trendiest bar has planned a collection of themed nights to keep everyone entertained. With its al fresco dining overlooking the serene Beira Lake and talented acoustic bands, the venue offers an experience unlike any other.

Good things come in doubles at Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo. The extended Happy Hour stretches for two hours from 5.00 p.m. to 7.00 p.m. and takes place daily. During these two hours, deals begin from Rs. 1,500 all inclusive.

Created to bring workmates together, Happy Hour has taken the world by storm and has become a social trend enjoyed by many. Happy Hour at Seven Degrees North brings about a chance to experience an extensive variety of cocktails combined with a selection of delicious tapas combos. The spicy bite selection provides a diverse assortment of snacks from mouthwatering buffalo wings and popular hot butter cuttlefish to Spanish albondigas, all perfect accompaniments to refreshing cocktails.

Ladies' Night every Thursday from 7.00pm to 2.00am is a perfect way to catch up with the girls and kick start the weekend early. Fabulous deals include a 25% discount on beverages. The event is a hit with the ladies of Colombo who are welcomed in red carpet style at Seven Degrees North. A complimentary first drink awaits after friendly paparazzi photograph the ladies as they arrive for a glamorous evening.

A brand new complimentary cocktail is created for the ladies every Thursday. The delicious variety of cocktails on show is specially created by Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo's talented and stylishly attired barmen at the glitzy event.

Seven Degrees North understands the importance of ending the week on a high note. To commemorate the end of the week the bar celebrates with a THIF (Thank Heavens It's Friday) evening. Every hour between 8.00pm and 1.00am the table with the highest bill will be awarded a complementary pitcher or cocktail on the house every Friday. It is truly the perfect way to end the week with friends.

To be a part of the Seven Degrees North monthly activities diners may contact 2491948. More information, pictures and updates are available at www.facebook.com/cinnamonlakeside.





Leema Creations win two awards at 'Entrepreneur of the Year 2012'

January 5, 2013, 6:05 pm

Leema Creations (Pvt) Ltd, a leading interior solution provider in Sri Lanka, bagged two awards, a National Merit Award and the Bronze Medal for the medium category of the Western Province at the recently concluded ' Entrepreneur Of the Year 2012' ceremony held at Waters Edge.

Mr. Channa Wijesekara, Managing Director of Leema Creations accepted the accolade at the ceremony on behalf of the Company.

Leema Interiors offer custom levels of service and a range of products to personalize the design experience of clients. Based in Colombo with the manufacturing plant in Dompe, Leema execute projects from concept to completion and all areas in between.

Blending aesthetics and personal taste with function, Leema can provide any client with a space that full fill their needs which appeals to sense of style. Currently, Leema Creations caters to a most elite clientele in Sri Lanka including many Blue Chip Companies.

The 40,000 square foot manufacturing Plant of Leema Creations located at Dompe, is one of the most advanced in Sri Lanka. A combination of computerized equipment and fine craftsmanship ensures exact execution of the detailed projects. Leema have highly trained and skilled production team works with state-of-the-art equipment and a host of other standard tools.

Mr. Channa Wijesekara is an incorporated civil engineer passed out from University of Moratuwa. He has written two books on 'Basic Wood Technology' in Sinhala and English, published by SMED, the umbrella organization of the Federation of Chambers of Commerce and Industry. Mr. Wijesekara became a qualified 'Wood technologist 'after successfully completing a two year full time 'Technical Teachers Certificate in Wood Technology 'in Germany.

He also has completed the Diploma in Education Administration from Landau University in Germany. Subsequently, he was trained at Colombo Plan Staff College and Dual Tech in Manila, Philipines on 'Industry–Vocational Training Cooperation' and also participated in basic and Moderators programmes in 'Objective Oriented Project Planning in Thailand.

He has worked as a wood working consultant for many firms and also worked as a curriculum writer for wood related trades for World University Services, Canada, National Institute of Education, NAITA etc. He was a Lecturer at Moratuwa University on Wood Technology for BSc Furniture Design degree and MSc in Forestry programme at the University of Sri Jayawardanapura. Mr Wijesekara is an old boy of Richmond College, Galle and Nalanda College, Colombo.





Aitken Spence drops deal with Six Senses

January 5, 2013, 5:58 pm

Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings said in a Stock Exchange filing on Friday that it has terminated an agreement, with no loss to the company, to build a multi-million dollar hotel in Ahungalle together with Six Senses, an international hotel chain and the Favourite group, a Lankan firm, and its associates.

The USD 35 million resort and spa with beachfront villas was to be built on a 10.5 acre land in Ahungalle, where the group already owns Heritance Ahungalle built many years ago and extensively refurbished more recently.

The Stock Exchange filing Friday that it had decided to terminate the agreement and the move will not have ``any effect on the financial results of Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC.''

Six Senses, Soneva and Evason were brands founded by entrepreneur Sonu Shivdasani.

In February 2011 reports said Six Senses had pulled out of plan to develop a hotel in an islet in Sri Lanka's north western coast and put on hold a project in Jordan.

In April 2012 Shivdasani sold Six Senses and Evason brands to US based Pegasus Capital Advisors, a private equity firm.

Sri Lanka's tourist arrivals had been growing since the end of a 30 year war in 2009. After clocking up a million visitor in 2012, tourism authorities are targeting 1.2 million visitors for 2013.





Sri Lanka Telecom Mobitel rings in 20 Successful Years

Well on its way to lead Sri Lanka towards an info-com and knowledge-rich society

January 5, 2013, 6:03 pm

Sri Lanka's National Mobile Service Provider - Sri Lanka Telecom Mobitel celebrates twenty illustrious years. Commencing operations in 1993, Mobitel was one of the foremost mobile service providers in Sri Lanka, beginning operations using first generation cellular technology - Advanced Mobile Phone System (AMPS)/ Time division multiple access (TDMA). From these beginnings Mobitel has steadily grown into a leader in the field of ICT, taking the industry towards transforming Sri Lanka into the 'Wonder of Asia'.

In October 2002, Mobitel became a fully-owned subsidiary of Sri Lanka Telecom. In the following years Mobitel grew from strength to strength, launching its fully-fledged EDGE/GPRS enabled 2.5G GSM network, which is designed to operate on dual band in 2004. Mobitel again established its dominance of the mobile communication industry by being one of the first ten mobile service providers in the world to launch a 3.5G HSPA network in 2007. Mobitel was also the first service provider with a super 3.5G network in South Asia. Furthermore, Mobitel successfully demonstrated HSPA + MIMO technology with downlink speeds of up to 28.8 Mbps and carried out a successful trial of 4G/LTE technology with downlink speeds exceeding 96 Mbps, for the first time in the South Asian region. Mobitel recently launched Dual Carrier HSPA+ technology and it is now equipped with the country's first mobile 4G/LTE equipment.

The company has continued with its strategy positioned around value innovation and customer centricity, making the best out of the technology being used, distribution systems, product portfolio and value added services with heightened acumen focussed on customer needs and interests. Whilst focusing on a strong customer-centric strategy, through optimum levels of service quality, service delivery and customer care, the company has expanded its distribution channels and introduced a divisional structure to optimize channel management.

The company is in the process of upgrading its network. The current stage of expansion is slated to add 1,800 new base stations islandwide, increasing the current number from 3,500 – aiming for 100% population coverage. With the development and transformation that Mobitel is undergoing, it is well poised to assume a lead role in bringing cutting edge mobile technology that would inevitably help shape the next phase of ICT technological development in Sri Lanka. Mobitel has now become a leading operator servicing the North and East following three decades of strife; areas which are a priority component of the Government's development strategy.

The Chairman of Sri Lanka Telecom Mobitel, Mr. Nimal Welgama commenting on Mobitel's 20th anniversary said, "The philosophy of Mobitel is "We Care. Always." as such the company has continued to deliver upon this promise by being customer centric for the past twenty years. Our subscriber base spans from businessmen to farmers in the furthest corners of the island. The service Mobitel offers is unparalleled, catering to all segments of the Sri Lankan public. This stands testament to the numerous awards we have won over the years – for the strength of our brand, for our engineering excellence and the list goes on. The company has gone from strength to strength and it is my belief that it will only develop further. The ICT transformation that has taken place in the island ever since Mobitel became the National Mobile Service Provider, is beyond comparison.. I would like to congratulate the entire team at Mobitel who has made the company what it is today and hope that this growth trend continues."

This year, Mobitel expanded its customer care infrastructure to both the Northern and Southern regions of the country by opening contact centres in Sooriyaweva and Mullaitivu. This resulted in creating new ICT based employment opportunities for youth in these areas. The company also established an IT Development Centre in Kegalle. Furthermore, Mobitel took it upon themselves to further empower employees of the state sector along with the Ministry of Telecommunication & Information Technology, and offered Upahara value added internet service: The new "Upahara Internet" offered free-of-charge HSPA mobile broadband dongles to all existing Upahara voice customers who are prestigious state sector employees. The company also made significant headway in terms of its financial achievements – with its Q3 2012 financials recording an impressive net profit surpassing the Rs.1 billion milestone.

Commenting on the Company's 20th anniversary, Mobitel's CEO, Mr. Lalith De Silva said, "Twenty years ago, Sri Lanka witnessed the formation of a world-class corporate personality. Today, built upon a brand promise of 'We Care, Always' – Mobitel strives to uplift lives, create new opportunities and develop Sri Lanka's ICT landscape. Our work over the last two decades has consolidated our repute of being the National Mobile Service Provider. With investments counting over USD 500 million, Mobitel continues to stay deeply committed towards creating memorable customer experiences through a range of innovative products and services. Our current development plans are aimed at 100% population coverage; to bridge the digital divide, with special focus laid on education, improving efficiencies in the business sector and encouraging fruitful public-private partnerships. Embarking on a new journey this year, Mobitel focuses on offering a wide range of Enterprise solutions aimed at making our public and private sector enterprises more efficient and globally competitive. While celebrating our 20th anniversary, we at Sri Lanka Telecom Mobitel look towards the future with optimism and courage, to be the driving force of the ICT industry contributing, towards Sri Lanka becoming the 'Wonder of Asia'."

Sri Lanka Telecom Mobitel rings in 20 Successful Years

"The philosophy of Mobitel is "We Care. Always." - a promise that the company has continued to deliver over the last two decades. The service Mobitel offers is unparalleled, catering to all segments of the Sri Lankan public, spanning from businessmen to farmers in the furthest corners of the island. This stands testament to the numerous awards we have won over the years – for the strength of our brand, for our engineering excellence and the list goes on. The company has gone from strength to strength and it is my belief that it will only develop further. The ICT transformation that has taken place in the island ever since Mobitel became the National Mobile Service Provider is beyond comparison."

"Twenty years ago, Sri Lanka witnessed the formation of a world-class corporate personality. Built upon a brand promise of 'We Care, Always' – Mobitel strives to uplift lives, create new opportunities and develop Sri Lanka's ICT landscape. With investments counting over USD 500 million, Mobitel in 2013 focuses on offering a wide range of Enterprise Solutions aimed at making our public and private sector enterprises more efficient and globally competitive. While celebrating our 20th anniversary, we at Sri Lanka Telecom Mobitel look towards the future with optimism and courage, to be the driving force of the ICT industry contributing, towards Sri Lanka becoming the 'Wonder of Asia'."





Cricket resumes undiminished

January 5, 2013, 5:11 pm

The game goes on. After a sad week that has seen the death of a famous cricketer and a famous commentator – Tony Greig and Christopher Martin-Jenkins, both in their sixties, attached to Sussex and cancer victims – cricket resumed on fields of play around the world, its vigour undiminished, Scyld Berry wrote in the Telegraph.

Cricket is so flexible and elastic that it can adapt and survive. If we look at cricket 50 years ago, we can see that far more changes have taken place than in other team-sports, and yet the basis remains bat and ball. Can football or rugby be played as a five-day match or for longer than a couple of hours?

Half a century ago, cricket was still in its chrysalis stage. When English cricket entered the 1963 season there was no hint of the changes to come – except one. A 'knock-out competition' of limited-overs matches was introduced between the 17 first-class counties (no Durham then).

Financial necessity was the mother of this invention. Leicestershire were bottom of the championship table and nearing bankruptcy. Their secretary Mike Turner implemented a mini-knock-out between four Midland counties in 1962 – but it wasn't quite the same as a limited-overs game now. It was 65 overs per side, and in the final a bowler could bowl as much as he liked, up to 33 overs, and two managed 18 overs each!

This financial necessity was connected to the broadcasting deal between English cricket and the BBC. To cover all the home Tests from 1962 to 1964, the BBC paid £140,000: not a completely paltry sum, because £1000 was a decent annual salary. Still, 50 years ago, the broadcaster put in less than 50 grand.

Around the world too, the process of commercialisation and professionalisation that Greig did so much to promote had not begun. Only seven countries played Test cricket, and in each of them only a very favoured few made a living by playing the game:

– Australia: no annual Boxing Day Test. No Test match at all in some seasons, like 1961-2, because no touring team. The five states (no Tasmania) played each other home and away in first-class matches: that was it.

– In the West Indies there was even less money than elsewhere. Garfield Sobers, Wes Hall and Rohan Kanhai went to play in Australia, in addition to league cricket in Lancashire.

– South Africa deigned to play Australia, England and New Zealand only. And even these games were not ranked official Tests by the Imperial Cricket Conference because South Africa had just withdrawn from the Commonwealth.

– India had innovated – but nothing quite on the lines of a franchised Premier League. They had just introduced the Duleep Trophy for regional first-class teams, to go alongside the traditional Ranji Trophy for states. India had just toured the West Indies, and although they lost 5-0, their batsmen were congratulated by Wisden for shedding their 'hysterical uneasiness against pace.'

– Pakistan experimented, enterprisingly. To combat the worldwide scourge of declining scoring rates and over-rates, bonus points were given for scoring more than three runs an over and bowling 17 overs an hour in their domestic first-class tournament.

– New Zealand was a sleepy backwater. Australia completely ignored cricket on the wrong side of the Tasman. New Zealand had recently been dismissed for 26, the lowest total in Test cricket. Times have changed, of course, in that they can now reach 45 against South Africa.

– Sri Lanka did not play their first Test until 1982. But after playing eight Tests in India and Pakistan, England under Ted Dexter flew to Colombo to play All Ceylon in 1962. And while Dexter himself ran through their batting with nine wickets, Stanley Jayasinghe and Clive Inman soon joined Leicestershire as pros, and the country's batting began to shine a lustrous light; and their schoolboy cricket was already a bedrock.

– A Test match was played in Bangladesh, between Pakistan and England, but no players born in what is now Bangladesh were selected. Instead, East Pakistan had to fly to West Pakistan to get a game, where they would be thrashed because they were not used to turf.

– Zimbabwe: the standard of cricket in what was Rhodesia was higher than it is now. Rhodesia fed three players into the South African Test side, including two virile pace bowlers and the world's best outfielder Colin Bland.

So no helmets, no reverse-swing, no reverse-hits, no Big Bash, no IPL, no World Cups, no coloured clothing, no balls other than red, no cricket at night, no women's cricket except very occasionally between England and Australia, no neutral umpires – just good, old-fashioned home advantage – and only England had more than a handful of professional cricketers. It seems a world away, not just half a century ago.





Photo Technica MD bags top accolade

January 5, 2013, 6:07 pm

Harsha Malvenna, Managing Director of Photo Technica, clinched the Bronze Award from the Western Province at the recently concluded 'Entrepreneur of the Year 2012' ceremony. He has shown entrepreneurship by developing his father's business with a record growth since he took over and turned it into a mega business enterprise by his innovativeness and meeting the selection criteria to be eligible for this prestigious accolade.





Ape Alert at the US Embassy in Colombo

January 5, 2013, 7:19 pm

By Maheen Senanayake

The US Embassy in Colombo had to deal with an unprecedented `monkey' situation its Marine guards were not trained to handle when a common or garden rilawa entered its highly fortified compound at Kollupitiya a few days ago and could not be ejected. The story even made the Washington Post..

The drama began on Dec. 20 when an e-mail went out to employees telling them that the ground-floor doors were locked because a monkey was trapped in the building and instructing them to use alternate exits.

In a 48 hour saga, Marine guards at the embassy and local staff tried their best to capture the monkey which sought refuge within the maze like ventilation and airconditioning duct network. Finally, ace hunter Dr. Tharaka Prasad of the Wild Life Conservation Department was called in to help.

A veteran of many such rescues including the Wasgamuwa tusker and the crocodile of Nilwala, Prasad matched cunning and behavioural knowledge of the primate to ingeniously trap the monkey close to the exhaust outlet and get him within sight and range of his tranquilizer gun.

Despite being hit by the dart, the monkey broke free as eager staff at the embassy ignored Prasad's call to hold back attempts to grab it. However, knowing the effect of the dart, the wild life veterinarian tracked the monkey for 15 minutes until the tranquilizer took effect.

"It is definitely an animal that has broken away from a home. Someone had tried to domesticate it, " he told the Sunday Island. "We are holding him at the Bellanwila-Attidiya range and he'll be released into a park where there are no bungalows."

Prasad estimated the monkey to be 4-5 years old and well. Two days earlier, a similar emergency call from the Galle Face hotel had been received by the Wildlife Department. It is believed it may have very well been the same intruder.

The rilawa (toque macaque) is a reddish-brown-coloured primate endemic to Sri Lanka. It is named for toque-shaped whorl of hair on its head, rather like the bonnet of the related bonnet macaque.

It lives in troops, sometimes numbering up to 20, and has developed into three subspecies. Troops of the toque macaque are a common sight in the Cultural Triangle, where many ancient temples are situated, hence earning them the nickname "temple monkey".

Chris Hensman, acting director of the State Department Press Office, confirmed the visit, explaining that the unexpected guest had been in the building's ventilation system. "The visitor eventually departed the building safely and unharmed after a 24-hour adventure," he said. "We thank the Sri Lanka Wildlife Department for their help to humanely resolve this issue."





Queens Gymkhana Tennis begins next Saturday

January 5, 2013, 7:12 pm

by Revata S. Silva

The 'A' Grade annual Open Ranking Tennis Tournament organised by the prestigious Queen's Gymkhana Club in Colombo will take place from January 12, next Saturday, to February 4 next year, the organisers announced last week.

DETAILS

Entries closed: January 4 (Friday) at 4 p.m. at Gymkhana Club and SLTA

Draw: January 9 (Wed) 5 p.m. at Gymkhana Club

Live updates will be posted on website: www.3gsportsonline.com

FORMATS

Format of play for Open events: All Main Draw Men's Singles matches will be best of 5 sets from quarter-finals onwards. All Main Draw Men's Doubles matches will be played best of 5 sets from semi-final onwards, with the final set being an advantage set.

For Junior events: Main Draw Singles matches will be best-of-3 tie-break sets with advantage. Under-10 will be best-of-17 games at eight-all tie-break with advantage. (Green Ball events will be played)

Main Draw Doubles will be match tie-break with no advantage

(If it is one set all, an extended tie-break up to 10 points will be played instead of the 3rd set). Qualifying Rounds will be best-of-17 games with no advantage (at eight-all a tie-break will be played).





People's Leasing & Finance Sponsors "Rupees & Sense" on ITN

January 5, 2013, 6:18 pm

"Rupees & Sense" the fortnightly television programme on ITN will be sponsored this year by People's Leasing & Finance PLC. Rupees & Sense is focused on current economic issues and the first programme for this month will be telecast on Tuesday the 8th at 10.00 p.m.





Gavaskar blames IPL for Team India's debacle

January 5, 2013, 7:11 pm

Two legends of world cricket, Sunil Gavaskar and Imran Khan on Friday held IPL responsible for the Indian team's recent downfall, with the former going on to say that for some Indian players national duty comes second to the cash-rich Twenty20 league.

Without naming anyone, Gavaskar questioned some Indian players' complete focus on IPL.

"If you look at the events that took place immediately after the 2011 World Cup, you will know the guys who actually took their places for granted, those who did not make themselves available and preferred to play in the IPL and then go for surgeries," Gavaskar said.

"I think those are the guys who instead of looking at India were looking at contributing for their IPL franchises. If at all you need to take rest, you need to take rest from club matches," he told a television channel when asked about India's ODI series loss to Pakistan.

Gavaskar also blamed the team's batting department for India's shoddy performance as the hosts gave Pakistan an unassailable 2-0 lead in the three-match ODI series at the Eden Gardens on Thursday evening. "It's the batsmen, they are the ones who are known much more than bowlers (in India). They are the ones who are responsible. Indian batsmen are terribly out of form since 2011 World Cup. They have struck form sporadically," he said.

Gavaskar's views were supported by Imran, who too feels that IPL has a big role to play in Indian team's decline in the past one year. "Unless Indian cricket deals with IPL, unless you work out a balance between Test cricket and Twenty20 cricket and the commercial aspect of IPL, Indian cricket will go down rapidly," the former Pakistan skipper warned.





A Medical Man's Reading of Selected Short Stories by Martin Wickremasinghe

January 5, 2013, 5:22 pm

Carlo Fonseka

[Extracted from the Festschrift produced by the University of Peradeniya to honor its distinguished Professor of Medicine, Dr. Nimal Senanayake who began his writing career by writing short stories as a schoolboy]

INTRODUCTION

To have enjoyed a long and close friendship with Martin Wickramasinghe (1890 - 1976), unarguably the unrivalled master of modern Sinhala creative writing, I count as one of the supreme blessings of my life. This privilege I owe to his third and youngest son, Ranga Wickramasinghe, who was my senior contemporary in the Colombo Medical School in the 1950s. Responding graciously to my diffident request, he kindly took me to meet his famous father at his home in Nawala. That first encounter is indelibly etched on my mind. At the desk in his study, which looked like a minor library, sat the great man, his well-shaped head covered with snow-white hair. MW warmly welcomed me with a smile that lit up his dignified face. That was way back in 1960 when he was the most celebrated man of letters and public intellectual in our country and I was just another medical graduate serving my internship in the General Hospital, Colombo. So began my association with MW which, over the next decade or so, served to educate me in the deepest sense of that word. Every now and then when we were together in his study talking about literature, culture, evolution, politics, Buddhism, Marxism whatever – I felt an impulse to hug the old man to show him how grateful I was for talking to me so learnedly for so many precious hours.

FATHER AND SON

His son RW, who translated the stories in this selection from Sinhala into English, had acquired a formidable reputation in medical school for his brilliance. Talk of the school in those days had to do with something that happened during a class conducted by the Professor of Medicine PB Fernando. Having listened to the analysis of a patient's complicated medical history that Ranga had to present to the class, our stately professor pronounced that RW had "the brains of an Einstein". No student before him or since had ever earned that sort of accolade from our professor, whose scholarly austerity was legendary. (For the record, I am still trying to forget the judgment Professor Fernando delivered when my turn came some years later to make a clinical presentation before his ward class. "Flamboyance," our professor somberly remarked at the end of my disquisition, "is best eschewed in medical writing.") However that may be, for his part RW kept his undergraduate promise and went on to become a professional pathologist of the first rank. While the cognitive part of his acute brain remained focused on the narrow medical discipline of histopathology (that is to say on the effect of disease on the body's tissues) its emotional part was irresistibly drawn to the subject of his father's field of work. This was nothing less than what the 18th century English poet Alexander Pope called "the proper study of mankind". MW observed human beings with a sharp and sensitive intelligence; his novels and short stories recorded his insights into human nature with a sort of studied casualness, as have indeed all great creative writers. That must be why Noam Chomsky, the famous linguist and public intellectual of our time, went so far as to say that "we will always learn more about human life and human personality from novels than from scientific psychology."

FATHER OF THE SINHALA

SHORT STORY

Indisputably MW was the father of the modern Sinhala short story. In this volume published in 2007, ten of the 104 short stories told by MW in limpid Sinhala are retold by RW in pellucid English. In a note RW says that "the translations were done leisurely over several years". For my part, I read the stories equally leisurely, lingering over each of them with my chaotic stream of consciousness flowing in whatever direction it might. I had, of course, read them all, a few of them more than once, in the original Sinhala. So I read the translations partly to see whether the son had done what I should call 'linguistic justice' to his father's creative prose. Knowing as I do that some nuances and subtleties are inevitably lost in the process of translation, I was curious to see how RW – as genuine a chip off the old block as is possible – had grappled with the formidable problem of translating his father's stories from their mother tongue Sinhala, to their second language English. Some time ago Prof. Ranjini Obeysekere, a great translator from Sinhala into English herself, flatly called the business of translation, "the art of the impossible." Because I knew the father, the son and the Sinhala originals very closely, when reading these stories in translation I felt that the aim of RW's labor of love must have been to make the English translations identical in spirit and flavour with the originals. It had always seemed to me that the literary relationship between MW and RW constituted a kind of organic unity. In literary taste too they were kindred spirits. Unsurprisingly therefore, RW's translations of MW's stories are rectitudinously faithful to the originals. And they capture the unadorned beauty of Martin Wickramasinghe's literary art to a nicety. Reading them again brought me the precious memories of happiness experienced long ago. All the expected joys recurred like clockwork. Better yet, having a sensitivity which matured rather late in life, I could now respond to MW's superb craftsmanship in all its exquisite simplicity much more intensely than I could when I first read them in Sinhala. They gave me as much pleasure as the best short stories of Guy de Maupassant, Anton Chekhov, O. Henry and Somerset Maugham that I have ever read.

HOW I READ THESE STORIES

For me these stories are not, and they can never be, just "words on the page" to which I respond a la F.R. Leavis. I simply cannot leave the baggage of my medical biography on one side when I read them. Nor do I see why I should even try to do so. Somerset Maugham, who was himself a medical man, says that unless a reader is able to give something of himself he cannot get from fiction the best it has to give. In fact he opines that if a reader is unable to do so, he had better not read novels and short stories at all. So what I will seek to do in my response to these stories is to say why I find them so enjoyable and so satisfying to read again and again. I feel that some of these stories closely imitate life. All of them communicate to me something of my great and good friend MW's thoughts and feelings in an aesthetically pleasing way. They somehow seem to broaden my awareness of the human condition and sharpen my moral intuitions. But these are not the reasons that impelled me to read them. I read them only because I found them so enjoyable.

WOMAN

Of all the stories in this volume, the one titled "Woman", although serially the ninth in the collection, is the one I first zeroed in on. MW was the pioneer Sinhala short story writer and "Ghehaniyak" (A Woman) is the title of his very first collection of short stories first published in 1924. At page 260 in his autobiography, (Upan da sita i.e. From the day I was born),. MW explicitly says that "Ghehaniyak" contained the collection of short stories which he most enjoyed writing. The theme of the story called Woman is one MW has expounded with great delicacy in several of his creative works. The basic insight I derive from his lucubrations on this theme is that in his view, what really sanctifies the life-perpetuating relationship between a man and a woman is their trust in each other and not the formal legality imposed on it by organized commercial society. "Woman" is a story about a married man who, while awaiting his divorce, is living together with a woman called Lizzie who had been deceived and abandoned previously by a crafty married man. Her current partner has promised and assured her that he will marry her when his divorce is granted by court. So when he finally gets his divorce he rushes home, announces it to Lizzie and offers to marry her straightaway. He wants to prove to her that he is as good as his word. Lizzie, who has experience of what it feels like to be left in the lurch, responds by coolly saying, "You should know by now that it is not in the legality of our marriage that I have put my trust. It is all the same to me whether you choose to marry me legally or choose not to do so.". To this the man says: "Have you any objection to getting married legally?" Lizzie's teasing reply is, "No, I have no objection. But isn't the present arrangement better? If you get fed-up with me you can leave me and become free. I can do the same if I should get tired of you." The man then says definitively: "No. You must become my legally married wife. I will be with you until my death.". Laughingly Lizzie says, "If you are so determined to legalize our marriage, I will not stand in your way."

WIDER IMPLICATIONS

Remember that this was written in the early 1920s when MW himself was unmarried. Indubitably he is here endorsing fictitious Lizzie's attitude to the institution of marriage or the holy sacrament of matrimony, as Christians call it. (If you care to know, in the early 21st century, I experienced in my own immediate family an attitude to marriage similar to Lizzie's. In retrospect I think that my reading of MW's short story Ghehaniyak had prepared me subconsciously to cope with my son's arrangement of living together for love with a woman he hadn't married. This greatly shocked my Catholic mother and more conservative relatives.) I also recall here, an incident in the life and times of Bertrand Russell. Around the time MW wrote his short story "Woman" in the early 1920's, Bertrand Russell and Dora Black, though unmarried, were living together as man and wife in China. When they returned to England with Miss Black five months pregnant, much to Dora's disappointment and even disgust and disapproval, Russell hastened to secure the legitimacy of his unborn child by duly registering their marriage. In fact this had been Russell's plan from the very beginning of their "marital relationship". He was concerned that the child might have grown up resentful of his parents for making him a bastard and thereby ineligible in due time to inherit the Russell earldom. Queen Victoria had conferred the earldom on John Russell (Bertrand's grandfather) who twice served her as prime minister of Great Britain. One cannot help commenting that for Bertrand Russell and Dora Black the point of living together without legal sanction was not mutual trust but philosophical and political considerations. For MW's fictitious character Lizzie and for countless young people in the modern world, the reason is a straightforward human one: pure and simple human trust despite awareness that some women will "find too late that men betray". They nevertheless evidently decide that if nothing else, living together in what amounts to legal fornication is more cost effective than prospective financially ruinous litigation. In the short story "Woman", MW implicitly endorses the practice of living together but explicitly suggests that when living under Roman-Dutch Law, there is no harm in conforming to it.





CPC Sapugaskanda refinery employees to be insured – Susil

Committee submits 30 recommendations

The government has decided to insure all employees of the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation's Sapugaskanda Refinery, it was announced last week.

This follows the recent death of where two employees who inhaled a toxic gas while repairing a pipeline carrying poisonous gas out of the refinery on November 17.

"The government has decided to provide an insurance cover to all refinery employees while also extending Rs. 10 million in gratuity and compensation worth to the families of the dead employees, Petroleum Minister Susil Premajayanth told a news conference at the Ministry office in Colombo.

He said that the CPC has allowed the families of these two employees to remain at the official quarters and given permanent employment in the government for some of the family members.

The report of the three-member commission of inquiry headed by retired High Court Judge P. K. W. Wijetartne and comprising retired Secretary to the Ministry of Civil Aviation Ranjith De Silva and Moratuwa University Professor of Civil Engineering Prof. Ajit De Alwis was handed over to the Minister, who in turn told the media that he will be placing it before the Cabinet and Parliament.

Wijeratne attributed the tragedy to a leak in the relief valve at the refinery while they were doing their routine maintenance work.

Responding to a question on whether the two victims were wearing their protective gear, Wijeratne said that there was no corroborative evidence in that direction, though they had obtained the gear from the stores.

He also said that there was evidence of dissent from officials who were constantly interfered with by trade unionists and other employees who were very enthusiastic about the welfare of the institution as well.

"There are some trade union leaders who treated their workplace with such passion and respect and valued it like their lives and they should cooperate with the management to develop the institution", he said.

The committee has also submitted in their report 30 recommendations to be adopted in the short and the long terms to avoid a recurrence. Most of them revolved around safety.





Karunaratne enjoying Australian challenge

January 5, 2013, 7:10 pm

Rex Clementine

reporting from Sydney

Opening batsman Dimuth Karunaratne earned high praise from former Australian captain Ian Chappell for his solid batting during the third day of the third Test against Australia here at the SCG and it also brought to an end a few disappointing outings for the 24-year-old batsman. He had fallen for a few soft dismissals in the series so far, but yesterday he was on song making an entertaining 85 in Sri Lanka's second innings.

Speaking to journalists after day's play, the opener said that he is enormously enjoying the occasion of being involved in Boxing Day and New Year Test Matches at iconic venues like the MCG and the SCG.

"It's a great feeling to play a Test in Australia, that too a Boxing Day Test and a Sydney Test. It's a superb opportunity for me to be involved in this Test series in Australia."

"With the new ball it's very easy to score runs and the wicket was quite flat. There was not much movement with the new ball either. We knew, because we were more than 100 runs behind, that we should near it bit by bit. When you play against Australia, you can't go on the back foot. We tried to play our natural game and that's what I tried to do," he added.

Sri Lanka had progressed nicely and were 130 for one at tea, but lost wickets in a hurry after the break. "After tea when the ball became old, they started to do various things with the ball. They reversed it, changed their pace and bowled variations. They also bowled a very good line and made it tight. We made lots of mistakes and that's what happened," Karunaratne explained.

Sri Lanka lead by 87 runs with three wickets in hand with Dinesh Chandimal unbeaten on 22. Karunaratne was confident that a target of around 150 could test Australia.

"We did hard work in the first session and second session, but we lost the last session. It is very disappointing. Chandimal is at the wicket, if he can do something tomorrow and help us to get to 150 to 175, there is a chance to do something on this track."

Karunaratne like the rest of the Sri Lankan team members woke up yesterday morning with calls from Colombo inquiring for Rangana Herath's wellbeing as rumours spread that the left-arm spinner had met with an accident.

"I heard about it when we were having breakfast. I have no idea how a thing like that started. Rangana is alive. From Sri Lanka someone called up and even asked, 'when is the funeral?'"





Sled crash kills 6 on Italian ski slope

January 5, 2013, 7:16 pm

ROME (AP) — Italian news reports say a motorised sled making a night run down an Italian ski slope slammed into a fence and flipped over into a ditch, killing six tourists and severely injuring two others aboard.

RAI state radio reported early Saturday that the sled's occupants were Russian tourists. The crash occurred on an unlit slope late Friday on Mount Cermis in northeast Italy. Victims' names were not immediately available. Cause of the crash was under investigation.

In 1998, a U.S. Marine jet, flying low on a training run from a nearby air base, accidently sliced a ski gondola's cable on Mount Cermis, sending the cable car crashing to the ground and claiming 20 lives.





"Journeying Beyond Christmas" Seylan Bank Carols 2012

January 5, 2013, 6:15 pm

Seylan Bank presented their annual Christmas Carols for the 22nd consecutive year, under the theme "Journeying Beyond Christmas". Inspired by the unity displayed by the staff in celebrating national and religious events so harmoniously, irrespective of the religion or race they belong to. The Choir too comprised of staff members and their children of different religious backgrounds, who sang in Harmony under the guidance of renowned choir Directress Mrs. Mary Anne David.

The festival of Carols was held recently at Tourist Board auditorium under the patronage of Mr. Mohan Pieris PC, Chairman, Seylan Bank PLC, who graced the occasion along with Mrs. Pieris.





The devoted love of a daughter for her mother

Soothing words in song reached me uninvited this morning, and moved quickly from backstage to spotlight. In captivating voice, the Sinhala words:*

Who rinsed the grain with tears that flood the pot

Whose sighs kindled the hearth

Who scoured local woods for unclaimed fruit

and watches out for my return from afar -

oh mother.

Today's song rekindles images from an era almost gone. We have developed and left to history the glorified tedium. Suffering may still persist, even in our developed midst, but in altered form. Much is gained as poverty ebbs. But may lots be lost as well?

Romanticizing poverty is quite a common sin, especially among people in material bliss. But being loaded with cash and other things may nonetheless deprive – which is not to say that living in want is somehow the better state. But wealth, too, can rob us of some truly priceless gifts.

The words of that song depict many magical things. How fortunate the daughter who has concrete form in which to see the depth of devoted love she gets. And fortunate indeed is she to receive such adoration. Had she been rich, would mother have had such telling means to say, 'This is how much I care'? In the decadent world all gifts are baubles, and words just empty sounds? Caring touch or sharing time may still remain for some – but I wonder whether these too weaken beside the dazzle of plenty. Being robbed of options for gift that conveys real depth of feeling is the price we pay for holding uncountable wealth. Not too bad a deal, we'd guess. But loss of feeling altogether is as well a risk, further down the line. Limitless wealth may not be return enough for such grave deprivation.

What we commonly call riches may need some qualification. Do we want to say someone is rich only when she is well-heeled? What word shall we use for the huge treasure resident in a large heart? One who's rich in this other way gets another bargain as well: she'd likely find it effortless creeping though those eyes of assorted needles. That kind of wealth may also grant benefits here on earth to rival those that lots of cash are known well enough to give. And there may be less of a downside to holding vast amounts in spirit than to having large deposits in bank. This is a hypothesis that deserves careful scrutiny.

The song triggered the question whether great material wealth can dull. Can being loaded stop us inhabiting the greatest depths of emotion? Or does the billionaire too enjoy a rich enough inner life? Are the poor mother's emotions felt no more strongly than his – but in some strange way become intense and noble, by the image of wholesome poverty entwined?





Serena Williams wins Brisbane title

Murray into final

January 5, 2013, 7:15 pm

By John Pye

BRISBANE, Australia (AP) — Serena Williams proved the break between seasons hasn't hurt her momentum in any way, capturing her 47th career title with a comprehensive 6-2, 6-1 victory over Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova on Saturday in the Brisbane International final.

Williams has won 35 of her past 36 matches, including titles at Wimbledon, the Olympics, the U.S. Open, the season-ending championship and now the first event of 2013.

The 15-time Grand Slam champion already has won the Australian Open five times, and with the season's first major a little more than a week away, she's in good shape to add another one.

In a tournament featuring eight of the top 10 female players, not one women's match in Brisbane featured seeded players against each other due to a series of injuries and upset losses.

Williams missed a chance to extend her 11-1 winning record against top-ranked Victoria Azarenka when the 23-year-old Belarussian withdrew a half hour before their scheduled semi-final on Friday night due to an infected toe on her right foot. Azarenka was more concerned about being ready for the Australian Open.

The night off obviously didn't bother Williams, who dominated the final after breaking No. 36-ranked Pavlyuchenkova in the sixth game.

She went on a roll, conceding only three points in the last three games of the first set during a seven-game run until Pavlyuchenkova finally held serve in the fourth game of the second set.

The match was all over in 50 minutes, with Williams firing nine aces and hitting 24 winners compared with only one ace and nine winners for her rival.

"I always feel like I don't know how to play tennis when I play against you," Pavlyuchenkova told Williams at the trophy presentation. The pair had travelled together on a training trip to Mauritius in the offseason but didn't really hit against each other at the time.

Accustomed to victory as she is, Williams started as usual by thanking the sponsors, her God, organisers, the fans and started to thank her dad, Richard.

"This is getting so routine, I'm saying 'my dad' and he's not even here!" Williams said, slapping her forehead as she laughed, before finishing off her list of people to thank.

The 31-year-old Williams can regain the No. 1 ranking if she wins the Australian Open later this month. And if she does, she'll be the oldest woman to hold the top spot on the women's tour. Chris Evert set the mark in November 1985, aged 30 years, 11 months and three days.

In the men's draw, defending champion Andy Murray advanced to the final when fifth-seeded Kei Nishikori retired with an injured left knee while trailing 6-4, 2-0 in their semi-final earlier Saturday.

The Olympic and U.S. Open champion will next meet 21-year-old Grigor Dimitrov, who is starting to live up to his billing as a star-in-the-making by reaching his first ATP Tour final with a 6-3, 5-7, 7-6 (5) victory over Marcos Baghdatis.





Stock market had good start in New Year

January 5, 2013, 5:59 pm

The Colombo bourse began the New Year with positive investor sentiment leading to week-on-week gains in indices backed by a stable rebound in volumes, Acuity Stockbrokers said in its Weekly Market Report.

Noting that the market had built on the upward trend seen in the last week of 2012, the report said that the All Share Price Index had crossed 5,700 points for the first time in 12 weeks to record a week-on-week gain of 140.58 points.

Turnover levels too improved significantly over the 4-day trading week with large block trades in Commercial Bank and JKH helping to sustain volumes.

The daily average turnover hit Rs.0.9 billion last week against the previous week's Rs.0.4 billion with foreign investor activity continuing to make positive strides and mid-week outflows last week offset by positive inflows of Rs.0.52 billion over the remainder of the week.

"Similar sentiment was likely to prevail in the week ahead," Acuity said.

Meanwhile the Central Bank which unveiled its 2013 Road Map setting out medium term monetary policy targets said its priority was to maintain inflation, particularly core inflation, at the mid single digits.

The bank estimated annual average inflation for 2012 at 7.4% with expectations of sustained declines in inflation coupled with continued fiscal consolidation which would imply lower rates.

It indicated that it would continue to systematically allocate EPF funds to the stock market, private equities and corporate debts.

The bank also highlighted its commitment to encourage equity and corporate debt markets to provide non-inflationary sources of funding to the economy.

The Central Bank had also relaxed several existing exchange control measures underscoring its commitment to maintain a stable but flexible rupee, Acuity said.

The bank had nevertheless indicated that intervention was possible in the event of sharp fluctuations.

Commercial Bank was the highest contributor to the week's total turnover value accounting for Rs.1.44 billion or 38.75%. JKH contributed Rs.667.75 million or 17.95% while HNB accounted for 12.32% of the total market value contributing Rs.458.27 million.

Total turnover for the four-day trading week was Rs.3.72 billion against Rs.1.27 billion to the previous three-day week.'

John Keells Stockbrokers said in its Stock Market Weekly that the All Share Price Index trended higher during the first week of 2013 mainly on the back of gains on large caps with Commercial Bank, JKH and HNB accounting for 69% of the weekly turnover largely driven by crossings.

Foreign participation improved during the week resulting in a net inflow of Rs.401.8 million.









On the back roads of golf, tales from the tour

January 5, 2013, 5:15 pm

DOUG FERGUSON,AP Golf Writer

Dave Kindred, a preeminent American sports writer who has worked his trade for the better part of four decades, was walking down the right side of the first fairway at Kiawah Island with the final group at the PGA Championship when he mentioned he had been teaching a writing class to college students.

Like most great columnists, Kindred's strength is his power of observation, and he has tried to pass that along.

"The one thing I tell them," he said, "is that if you really pay attention to what you're covering, you'll see something you've never seen before."

He stopped and kneeled to watch Carl Pettersson, playing in the last group that Sunday with Rory McIlroy, hit his approach to the green. Pettersson was just inside the red hazard line, so he was careful not to ground his club. Brushing the top of the grass was OK.

Moments after his shot, he was approached by PGA rules official Brad Gregory and told there might be a problem.

In a bizarre development, Pettersson's club nicked a leaf on the way back, a violation of Rule 13-4c for moving a loose impediment in a hazard. After an exhaustive video review, Pettersson was given the bad news — a two-stroke penalty — on the fourth hole.

Pay attention and you never know what you'll see.

That much was true in a wild year of golf. Phil Mickelson lost his bid at the Masters by hitting two shots right-handed. Rory McIlroy was confused by the time zone and needed a police escort to get to the final day of the Ryder Cup on time. Tiger Woods never found his golf ball, was not penalized and still missed the cut.

Those have been well-documented. What follows is the 2012 edition of "Tales from the Tour," the obscure moments that keep golf so interesting and entertaining.

___

Kyle Stanley is a quiet man. This was a quiet celebration.

One week after he made triple bogey on the 18th hole at Torrey Pines and then lost in a playoff, he rallied from eight shots behind on the final day with a 65 in the Phoenix Open to win his first PGA Tour event. It was a remarkable turnaround. One week he faced the media after his meltdown and fought back tears. The next week he was a winner.

Stanley was invited to a Super Bowl party that night at the home of Jim Mackay, the longtime caddie of Phil Mickelson. He was late to the party because of the media obligations that come with winning. When he finally arrived, Stanley knocked and then walked in the door holding the oversized winner's check over his head.

He quietly placed it above the TV, and then sat down to watch the game, a player at peace.

___

No other golfer spends more time with the media after every round than Ryo Ishikawa, who is treated like a rock star in Japan. When he signs his card, even when it's late in the day, it's not unusual for the 21-year-old to spend close to an hour fulfilling his media obligations.

That's where "The Chair" comes in.

His handlers have a white folding chair for Ishikawa as he endures two interviews with different television stations. A dozen or so reporters form a semi-circle around him as they wait and listen, occasionally jotting down notes. Then, it's their turn. They spent close to 15 minutes with Ishikawa after his round at Innisbrook, going over the clubs he used and shots he hit on just about every hole — this after a 73 that left him 12 shots out of the lead.

Finally, he was finished. He got up from the chair and walked around the clubhouse toward the parking lot. The Japanese reporters followed him, walking in a group about 20 yards behind. One of them was asked where they were going.

"Now we wave goodbye," the reporter explained.

Indeed, they stood on a sidewalk and waved as Ishikawa's car drove by them.

___

Butch Harmon was talking retirement in the spring. He turned 69 this year. A Vietnam War vet, he has been teaching most of his life, working for Sky Sports and traveling the world, which is starting to take its toll. He worries about the day when his attention span is short or he doesn't care as much as he once did.

"It's not there, but it's coming," he said. "I will never step away. I'll always teach. I love to teach."

The next morning, he was on the range at Quail Hollow waiting for Phil Mickelson to arrive. Gary Christian, a 40-year-old PGA Tour rookie from England, walked over and introduced himself. Christian said he was fascinated to watch so many Americans use the leading edge of the club on wedge shots. They chatted for a few minutes and after Christian walked away, Harmon said, "Who was that?"

Harmon nodded when told about Christian's back story, how he came to America on a college scholarship, supported himself by selling steak knives and toiled in the minor leagues for 15 years before finally making it to the big leagues.

Still no sign of Mickelson.

A few minutes later, Harmon walked over to Christian. He spent a few minutes observing, and then pulled a wedge from the bag and gave an impromptu lesson.

He'll always teach. He loves to teach.

___

You've seen the sign at the baggage claim to check your luggage because some bags may look alike. That goes for golf travel bags, too.

Nick Watney and Angel Cabrera arrived in San Francisco for the U.S. Open about the same time, on different flights. Cabrera kept waiting at oversized luggage for his bag to come out, and he began to think the airlines had lost it. There was only one golf bag there, and it belonged to Watney.

That's when the light came on.

Cabrera's agent called the person in charge of U.S. Open courtesy cars and asked them to stop Watney on his way out.

Sure enough, Cabrera's golf bag was in his trunk.

___

The relationship three-time major champion Padraig Harrington has with reporters is unlike that of any other player, especially the Irish media.

He was giving an interview to Greg Allen of Irish radio station RTE, and after they finished, Harrington began making small talk. He asked Allen, "I heard you lost your sunglasses?" Allen's shoulders slumped as he told Harrington he had misplaced his glasses and didn't know where to look for them.

Harrington didn't commiserate. He smiled.

"They're in my locker," he said. "You left them behind the other day."

___

Sung Kang received elite training in South Korea's national program that is producing more and more top players, but he worked equally hard on his English and speaks beautifully for someone who has played the PGA Tour only the last few years.

Turns out he has been coming to America twice a year since 2002 to work on his golf, and he devoted just as much effort to the language.

In Florida? California?

"Dallas," Kang said. "I went to the Hank Haney schools, so I would work with Haney and learned English there in Texas."

Some things, however, still get lost in translation. Kang was asked if he ever bought cowboy boots from all that time spent in Dallas.

"No," he said. "I don't really like the NFL. I'm more of a Lakers fan."

___

The British Open has a massive scoreboard in the press center where a group of volunteers, most of them women in their early 20s, move ladders on rails from side to side as they post the score of every hole for every player.

Press officers often check to see which players they should bring in for interviews the first two rounds as the leaderboard is taking shape. In the second round, Adam Scott had a 67 to get within one shot of the lead with several players still on the course.

The announcement over the intercom: "Can we see a show of hands for Adam Scott?"

Six young women posting scores all raised their hands.

___

About two dozen fans waiting for autographs behind the ninth green on the Magnolia Course at Disney got more than they expected. Brian Harman emerged from the scoring trailer after the final PGA Tour event of the year and said, "Who's left-handed?"

One man came forward, and it turned out to be his lucky day.

Harman went over to his bag, removed all the irons and handed them to the fan. Turns out Harman wanted to try something different at Disney, so he used irons with graphite shafts. He described it as the worst ball-striking week he had all year.

"I just wanted to try some different stuff," Harman said. "And now I know what was not the answer."

No other sports organization comes close to the amount of charity produced by the PGA Tour. Harman took it to a new level.





Sri Lanka in US80mn aircraft MRO complex

January 5, 2013, 6:10 pm

Sri Lanka's state-run SriLankan Airlines will operate an 80 million US dollar aircraft repair and overhauling (MRO) complex at the country's second international airport in Mattala targeting the Asian market and India.

Information minister Keheliya Rambukwelle said cabinet approval has been given to obtain foreign financial assistance for the project.

Sri Lanka's ministry of civil aviation has sought 80 million US dollars from the Exim Bank of China to build hangars and related facilities for the aircraft maintenance facility.

Mattala airport which is being built with Chinese finance is expected to open this year.

SriLankan Airlines has an engineering facility in Katunayake which is already attracting business from other Asian countries including India.









Commercial Bank's ATM network of 555 plus terminals is the single largest automated cash dispensing system owned by a bank in Sri Lanka. More than 100 of these ATMs are installed at off-site locations, including railway stations, bus terminals and shopping malls for the convenience of the public.

Commercial Bank is the largest private bank in Sri Lanka, and operates a network of 227 computer-linked branches and service points. The Bank has the distinction of being the only Sri Lankan bank to be listed among the Top 1000 Banks of the World two years consecutively. Commercial Bank has been adjudged 'Best Bank in Sri Lanka' for 14 consecutive years by 'Global Finance' Magazine and has won multiple awards as the country's best bank from 'The Banker,' 'FinanceAsia,' 'Euromoney' and 'Trade Finance' magazines.





Union Bank introduces "Double Vasi"

Union Bank of Colombo PLC announced the launch of "Double Vasi" - a unique investment product for customers. The new product was introduced to its customers on 01st January 2013.

"Double Vasi" provides a two pronged investment opportunity with greater returns than the usual 5 year fixed deposit. 70% of the investment will be invested in a Union Bank Fixed Deposit for a period of five years with an opportunity to earn an attractive interest rate.

The balance 30% will be invested with the National Equity Fund which has recorded attractive returns for the past 20 years. The National Equity Fund is managed by National Asset Management Limited (NAMAL) a subsidiary of Union Bank. The investment in the National Equity Fund provides a tax free return and an opportunity to receive an annual dividend. The investor can redeem the investment in National Equity Fund at any time with no penalty.

This unique product provides the opportunity to invest in the stock market with no risk to the initial deposit.

Double Vasi adds to the many innovative financial products being offered by Union Bank. As one of Sri Lanka's fastest growing Bank's focusing on Small and Medium Enterprises and Retail sectors, Union Bank aims to offer its customers a comprehensive range of financial solutions to address their changing needs. The Bank is forging ahead as a key player in the Banking industry in Sri Lanka and has a branch network of 36 branches.





Pakistani Prime Minister Raja Pervez Ashraf on Friday urged national security institutions to further improve intelligence gathering and establish effective coordination among civil and military institutions to comprehensively tackle terrorism.

"We have to redesign and redefine our military doctrine to achieve this objective," he told participants here at a Certificate Awards Distribution Ceremony of 14th National Security Workshop, organised by the National Defence University.

The Prime Minister said the threats to Pakistan's national security stem mainly from non-state actors who were targeting state's symbols and institutions in a bid to impose their agenda.

He described the enemy as "name-less and face-less," and assured all possible support and resources by the government to counter these elements.

The premier also acknowledged the "huge sacrifices" rendered by "brave security forces, law enforcement agencies and citizens" in the war against terrorism.

He said Parliament was the mother of all institutions, a repository of people's aspirations and the custodian of national interests.

No military action alone can succeed and political will and support of the people were critical to its success.

"The entire nation and Pakistan's Parliament stand behind their armed forces in their struggle to secure the future of our children", he added.

He said the democratic government can rightfully take pride in the fact that it gave political ownership to war against terrorism and described the Swat Model as a combination of political strategy and modern warfare.

He said for national security it was incumbent that every institution works within the constitutional ambit. "Political stability is critically linked to national security," he pointed out.

Prime Minister Ashraf said the forces of doom and gloom thrive in an environment of chaos, uncertainty and instability.

"We need to guard against all such forces out to derail the system so assiduously put in place after a protracted struggle."

"This is where the role of media comes in. They will have to build consensus on broad contours of national security. The threat of terrorism and extremism also involves a clash of ideas and battle for hearts and minds This war is also psychological", he noted.

"We have to expose the hollowness of this regressive mindset," he stressed.

The Prime Minister said he has unflinching faith in the people and have always risen to the occasion. "We will defeat the forces of darkness who cast evil designs on our culture, values and a way of life. I have no doubt about it", he said.





Triad begins the New Year by Kicking off 20th anniversary celebrations

January 5, 2013, 6:20 pm

"Triad, the 'Global Local' who challenged the industry with a proposition of being a 100% local, takes pride in having built strong local brands, deploying insightful ideas that connect local consumers.





Ranjanas Ceramic entered into a partnership with The Sri Lanka Institute of Architects (SLIA) once again for the year 2013 as an Associate Sponsor. This marks the second consecutive year that SLIA has partnered up with Ranjanas Ceramic. The Memorandum of Understanding associated with this partnership was signed between the two parties at a ceremony held at the SLIA on December 20, 2012.

Speaking at the event, Archt. Ranjan Nadesapillai, President of SLIA said, "Ranjanas Group has a long history and is technologically advanced. Furthermore, in the building industry they concentrate on dealing with reputed brands and introducing internationally renowned brands to Sri Lanka. So we are very pleased to collaborate with them."

Mr. D. Vigneshwaran, Managing Director of Ranjanas Ceramic said, "I would like to thank the President of SLIA and all those who have given us the opportunity to be an Associate Sponsor once again for 2013. Ranjanas is different from others in terms of the quality of the product and the after sales support that we give to the customers. So today we pledge that we will not affiliate with cheaper products in the market and we will keep the dignity of the product."

Ranjanas Ceramic has established themselves as one of the most prominent companies of Sri Lanka and this partnership between the SLIA and Ranjanas Ceramic precedes the `Architect 2013', the annual sessions of SLIA, scheduled to be held from 20th - 24th February 2013 at the BMICH, Colombo. The National Conference in Architecture based on the theme "Think Smart - Innovative Enterprise", will host a number of presentations by locally and internationally reputed professionals. The Members' work and Trade Exhibition will create the opportunity for the public to see Architectural creations by many Architectural Practices in Sri Lanka. The Trade Exhibition will create the opportunity for the public to see a range of materials available in the industry. Currently most of the stalls have been reserved leaving only a few and many are contending to gain an opportunity to this nonpareil event.

Ranjanas Group of Companies is well known in Sri Lanka with a history that extends well over 60 years and has an extensive experience that expands over 17 years. They carry many world renowned brands such as Niro Granite from Malaysia, Porcelanosa – Royal warranted by HRH Prince of Wales, Aosmay digital mirrors, Bisazza mosaics from Italy, Kludi from Dubai and Germany, RAK from Dubai, Orin from Malaysia, Laticrete and many more. Furthermore, they are launching two new products in the coming weeks – Roman ceramics from Indonesia and MML (Malaysian Mosaics Limited) making them an important partner in the SLIA sponsor line up.





Dhoni keeps calm amid defeats but Pakistan whitewash may be the end

January 5, 2013, 7:12 pm

Today could prove a watershed for Mahendra Singh Dhoni. While England take on India 'A' at Delhi's Palam 'A' Ground, across the city the India captain will be trying to stave off the ignominy of a home one-day whitewash at the hands of Pakistan.

"It is a difficult time for us but we cannot blame any individual," said Dhoni following India's second successive loss to their bitter rivals on Thursday. "We need to be calm and take decisions accordingly."

After the zenith of leading India to victory in the 2011 World Cup, a third successive defeat would leave Dhoni's future as captain hanging by thread.

Since guiding his side to a 5-0 whitewash of England in October 2011, India have failed to reproduce the dominating form expected of World Cup winners, losing six of their last 13 matches. Following Sachin Tendulkar's retirement from the one-day arena, Dhoni needs his senior players Virender Sehwag and Gautam Gambhir to assume more responsibility against England.

One bright spot has been the emergence of the bowler Bhuvneshwar Kumar, 22. He may be raw but his genuine pace and swing were missing from India's attack during the Test series against England.

Dhoni may miss match today –

Meanwhile Dhoni's participation in the final ODI against Pakistan is in doubt after he complained of soreness in his back during practice at the Kotla in Delhi. Wicketkeeper-batsman Dinesh Karthik has been called up as back-up for the Indian captain.

"If at all somebody is doubtful, it's me," Dhoni said when asked about the absence of Yuvraj Singh at the practice session. "Since it was an optional practice session, Yuvraj did not come."





Through this initiative, the buyers of TATA commercial vehicles & Nano cars will get an attractive tailor made leasing package from HNB Leasing.

HNB Leasing will offer unmatchable attractive leasing packages for TATA buyers through its network of 247 Customer Centres in the country. In addition to this a life insurance cover of Rs. 1.2 Mn and a HNB credit card free of joining fee will be offered.

DIMO is the market leader in the commercial vehicle segment; furthermore DIMO and TATA have a strong relationship of over 50 years in the Sri Lankan market. DIMO has sales, service and spare parts outlets island wide with 24 hour road side assistance to provide an efficient service to its valuable customers.

With a number of development projects, Hotels & Apartments planned to be initiated in the Country, there will be a greater demand for good quality commercial vehicles. This demand can be successfully met through such attractive leasing packages to obtain good quality TATA vehicles.





Cricket legend Tony Greig surrounded by family in final hours

It was the last Christmas Day cricketing legend Tony Greig would share with his family.

This precious image captured Greig surrounded by his loved ones, including wife Vivian, daughters Samantha and Beau and sons Mark and Tom as they celebrated Christmas together.

The day the photo was taken Greig posted a holiday message on Twitter: "Merry Christmas and a happy, healthy and prosperous New Year to you all. Would love to be at Test but son Tom and I will be tuned in."

Greig passed away with his family by his side at 1.45pm on December 29, Saturday at St. Vincent's Hospital.

He had advanced lung cancer and died following a cardiac arrest.

The SCG Trust was encouraging spectators to wear wide-brimmed hats -which Greig was well known for- as a tribute to the cricketing legend for the New Year's Test.





Tony Greig - Vale

I was saddened – as I am sure many of us in this island were – when the news came in last Saturday of the passing away of Tony Greig.

Quite apart from the fact that he was a great cricketer – his record as an all rounder (a batting average over 40 and a bowling average less than 33) proves him to be one of the best to have played for England – he was also an entertaining, articulate and highly knowledgeable cricket commentator. Even more importantly, many of us here in Sri Lanka looked on him as our spokesman in the wider world of cricket – someone who talked well of our cricketers and stood up for us when other less intelligent and more parochial commentators were wont to speak disparagingly of Sri Lanka. Even during the years when were in the midst of our Tiger Wars, Tony Greig was enthusiastically extolling the talents of our cricketers, the sweetness of our pineapples, the beauty of our beaches and the hospitality of our people. Small wonder that Sri Lankans have been heard to describe him as someone who was "born in South Africa, played for England, lives in Australia – and supports Sri Lanka!"

Who can forget his famous words, delivered on air after Arjuna Ranatunga hit a Shane Warne full toss over the square-leg rope as he and Aravinda de Silva were taking Sri Lanka closer to victory in the 1966 World Cup final "These Sri Lankans are giving the Aussies a real hiding!"? It was a cricketing moment that every one of who was listening to that match remembers.

Thanks to the internet, I have during this week been reading the many tributes to this great man that have been appearing in the media in various parts of the world. It would not be wrong to say that Tony Greig's famous voice and those oft repeated "Greigisms' have been enjoyed wherever cricket commentaries are televised or broadcast. His verbal sparring in the commentary box with former Australian captains Ian Chappell and Bill Lawry have kept Australia's Channel Nine listeners highly entertained over the years.

Chappell, who opposed him in many a contest, referred to him as "my best enemy – and my close friend." He remembered Greig as a man who was able to get the best out of his natural talents; well might he have added that Greig as a captain was a man who could bring out the best in his players by the sheer strength of his personality. Ian Botham, who played his first test for England under Greig's captaincy, described him as " flamboyant and extroverted - and he made things happen."

I cannot do better than quote what Andrew Fernando wrote in his Cricinfo column, "Both in the cricketing universe and elsewhere, Greig believed in Sri Lanka before she even believed in herself."

Our island is now a more united nation than it was during most of Tony Greig's years of visiting Sri Lanka as a cricket commentator - and I am sure that now it will be united in mourning the loss of one of our favourite adopted sons.





Outgoing BOC chief says he didn't give into political demands for loans and jobs

'I always played a straight bat'

January 5, 2013, 6:16 pm

Outgoing BOC Chairman, Dr. Gamini Wickramasinghe stresses a point during last week's news conference. At left is Indunil Liyanage, Chief Marketing Officer

BY SURESH PERERA

Dismissing assertions that political interference had pushed him to throw in the towel, outgoing Bank of Ceylon (BOC) Chairman, Dr. Gamini Wickramasinghe, underscored that he has always played a straight bat and declined to entertain requests for loans and jobs on political considerations.

"I have not practiced politics in my eight-and-a-half-year stint in government service", he said, referring to the three key institutions he headed during this period.

Before taking over the chairmanship of BOC, Sri Lanka's state banking giant in May 2007, Wickramasinghe headed the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka and the Insurance Board of Sri Lanka.

"The President discouraged me from quitting when I submitted my resignation in August 2012, but I have firmly decided to leave. However, I agreed to hang around for four months more until a successor was appointed. The time has now come for me to go", he told journalists at the BOC headquarters in Colombo last week.

Asked whether he had any disagreement with the government, the Chairman replied, "No, there is nothing like that because, as I said earlier, there were no politics involved".

Q: Was it because you didn't do politics that you have to quit?

A: I don't think so.

Q: It has been reported that you had a tiff with UPFA parliamentarian, Namal Rajapaksa?

A: As a young MP, he is like my son. There are various stories doing the rounds. He asked me some questions and I responded. I meet and talk to him. There is no such problem. When I telephoned the President to wish him for the New Year, my fervent request to him was to refrain from appointing a politician to head BOC.

"This is a like a giant wheel which should not be allowed to rust and slow down. It will work well if we oil it. Since I took over in 2007, the bank's assets, deposits, shareholder equity and overall growth have more than tripled", Wickramasinghe explained.

With amazing growth, BOC's projected profits for 2013 will be around Rs. 20 billion, he noted. "No other financial organization will be able to parallel this achievement".

Expressing disappointment over Treasury not implementing his proposal to improve BOC's capital adequacy, the Chairman cautioned that taking this huge financial institution forward would be difficult if this critical necessity is not accommodated.

"Without adequate capital, BOC can remain where it is and merely maintain its status quo, but in the future we can't perform the way we did", he warned. "That was why I made this proposal prior to the 2013 budget, but though the Treasury accepted it, implementation was not forthcoming".

Wickramasinghe declined to elaborate on his proposals at this juncture, but assured they would not have placed the government or the BOC in jeopardy as "we have the capacity to handle US$ 200 to 500 million".

"The government does not have money to give us", he pointed out. "That's why alternate proposals were submitted to address the critical capital inadequacy issue".

The status quo is fantastic, but there should be capital adequacy to also expand BOC's overseas operations and venture out to not only to the Middle East, but also to Europe and North America, he explained. "We are planning to establish a presence where Sri Lankans are and play the role of a regional player where there are Indians and Pakistanis".

He said that BOC has branches in the UK, India and the Maldives. "The Maldives operation is very profitable compared to some others".

Q: Are you quitting because you are disappointed over the capital inadequacy issue?

A: No. I look for challenges. There are no challenges now because BOC has achieved all its targets by May 2012. Anybody can run the bank now – it's just plain sailing. This is a giant organization – we need somebody to drive it and reach great heights.

Asked by The Sunday Island whether he has been offered any alternate top slots by the government, the Chairman replied, "A lot of offers have come my way, but I am not interested now. I want to go home, take a break for some time and get involved in something later".

"After quitting, I will also end up there", he smiles, pointing at the photographs of his 20 predecessors who had headed BOC, founded in 1939, with Sir Ernest de Silva as its first Chairman.

Q: Are you sad to step down?

A: Yes, I am sad to leave. It was an enormous challenge for me to work towards achieving all the set goals. I am happy this mission was achieved well ahead of schedule. I have not had a holiday during the six years I have been here. Over the weekend also we had programs in various towns to meet people and inculcate the savings habit, and in the afternoons, meetings with the staff were arranged to motivate them. So, it had been hectic, but I have made thousands of friends all over the country.

The next step is raising a trillion in savings, Wickramasinghe emphasized. "This is critically important because Sri Lanka needs a savings ratio of 30% - 35% to make a positive economic contribution, but at present it is far below – about half the anticipated figure".

Responding to another question, he said that BOC's business transactions with the government are profitable because there are charges levied for the services. "They are not offered gratis".

He said that Rs. 140 million has been disbursed by way of credit facilities to empower people to restart their lives in the North and East since 2009. (Rs. 70 million for each of the two provinces)

Dr. Wickramasinghe, a pioneer of the software industry and private education in Sri Lanka, was handpicked by President Mahinda Rajapaksa to head the country's biggest government-owned financial institution.

As an entrepreneur, who founded the Informatics Group of Companies in 1983, he offered his services to BOC free of charge.









The Year of Judgement

January 5, 2013, 6:46 pm

Rajan Philips

The Supreme Court and the Court of Appeal could not have timed it better. The former delivered its judgementon New Year's Day and the latter made it public the following day. Following a laudable work ethic and a working calendar, rather than the customary astrological considerations, the two superior courts have ushered 2013 as the Year of Judgement for Sri Lankan politics. It is now for the Executive and the Legislature to either fall in line with the courts,as they must, or consult astrologers and constitutional devil's advocates and cut their noses to spite the courts, as they might.

No matter how it ends, the political and constitutional unfolding through the rest of the year will be influenced by the New Year's Day ruling. Regardless of what course politics will take, the six superior court judges have quite unassumingly and unflappably written themselves into Sri Lanka's constitutional history. It is in the shadow of their ruling that Mahinda Rajapaksa, Ranil Wickremasinghe and even Shirani Bandaranayake are now left to play out what remains of their roles in public life.

A comprehensive ruling

The court ruling has identified, anticipated and addressed every political and constitutional question that could be raised in regard to the court's jurisdiction and determination on the impeachment question. Even though the government parliamentarians chose to ignore the Court's 'invitation', and this was an entirely serious, sincere, and proper invitation than the one extended to the Chief Justice to visit Temple Trees, the court had the benefit of hearing the Attorney General as well as counsel for intervener petitioners who were objecting to the Court exercising jurisdiction on the impeachment matter. As a result the Court heard as broad a cross-section of submissions as possible and went through the time tested process of argument, deliberation and determination. Quite different, you will notice, from the way the Parliamentary Select Committee on impeachment, claiming constitutional authority, conducted itself in arriving in its determination against the Chief Justice.

The ruling first outlines how the Court established at the very outset that there was no one among the parties including the Attorney General and intervener petitioners, who objected to the particular Bench of judges hearing the constitutional case. Everyone was asked and everyone was happy with the Bench hearing them even though there was, as the ruling indicated, averment to the contrary in the intervener petitions. This should silence the government voices, in parliament and elsewhere, which have been comically and ignorantly harping about a conflict of interest in the Chief Justice selecting judges for hearing the constitutional reference on impeachment. Regardless of the procedures for assigning cases, the allusion of conflict of interest is really an affront to the individual judges assigned to the bench. It may be that government parliamentarians having become presidential puppets have forgotten that there are still judges and other professionals in Sri Lanka who carry out their duties honestly, intelligently, independently, professionally and fearlessly. Without them Sri Lanka would have lost even the little hope in hell that is still out there for preserving even a semblance of constitutional governance.

Second, the ruling establishes that there was a proper referral to the apex Court to determine the question of the constitutionality of the impeachment process created under a Parliamentary Standing Order. The ruling deals extensively with the arguments over the validity of the referral including previous Supreme Court rulings in coming to the proper conclusion that the Court had before it a valid referral for determination. Anything else would have defied common sense. While it is not a legal issue, it is a failure of politics that until the current challenges made their way to the Supreme Court via the Court of Appeal, the apex court has had no occasion to determine the constitutional question pertaining to the impeachment of judges.

The question of constitutionality was first raised by the late Mr. S. Nadesan, QC during the impeachment of Chief Justice Neville Samarakone. The UNP government at the time did not refer the matter to the Supreme Court despite the request by Sarath Muttetuwegama, Anura Bandaranaike and Dinesh Gunawrdena who were the Opposition Members in the PSC on impeachment of the then Chief Justice. The present SLFP-led government under a different leadership tried to change the impeachment process as part of a constitutional change in 2000.

And the Supreme Court has now drawn attention to the fact that Anura Bandaranaike in his 2001 ruling as the then Speaker of Parliament invited parliamentarians to consider the need to "introduce fresh legislation to amend the existing Standing Orders regarding motions of impeachment against Judges of the superior courts" in line with the provision "already included in the draft Constitution tabled in House in August 2000." The Court noted that the "2000 draft Constitution did not see light of day as a new Constitution.

It was the UNP that torpedoed the draft Constitution of the year 2000. However in 2002, a UNP-led government gave an undertaking to UNHRC that the decisions of a Parliamentary Select Committee on the impeachment of judges would be subject to judicial review if such a committee "were to misdirect itself in law or breaches the rules of natural justice." The UNP government report to the UNHRC went on to assert that "nowhere either in the relevant constitutional provisions or the standing orders seeks to exclude judicial decisions of the inquiring committee."

Notwithstanding these assertions, during the current impeachment saga, Mr. Ranil Wickremasinghe rose on his hind legs in parliament more than once to lead the chorus on parliamentary supremacy to the distinct delight of Speaker Rajapaksa. On the other hand, the government MPs led by the President not only went back on their constitutional commitments in 2000 but also cited the impeachment of Chief Justice Neville Samarakoon as 'precedent' even though they were dead against that impeachment process in 1984. Worse, the President and his MPs admitted that the process for impeaching judges should be changed but only after impeaching the present Chief Justice. In other words, both the UPFA government and the UNP opposition have jointly and incompetently made such a mess of the impeachment process that the superior court judges have had to step in to show the way to clean up the mess.

The Supreme Court's ruling also points out the difference between the Soulbury Constitution and the 1972 Constitution, on the one hand, and the 1978 Constitution, on the other, in regard to their respective provisions for the removal of superior court judges. The two former constitutions identically provided for judges to continue in office during good behavior and for removal for misbehavior or incapacity upon an address by parliament and an order by the Head of State. The 1978 Constitution, on the other hand, provided for an ill-defined process of investigation to precede an address by parliament. The reason for the difference, in my view, is that the two former constitutions were based on parliament and the Head of State acting sensibly, responsibly and in good faith in regard to the removal of a judge based on conspicuous and incontrovertible evidence of misbehavior or incapacity.

President Jayewardene may have wanted to provide for a specific process of investigation with the good intention of preventing parliament from acting arbitrarily and in bad faith to remove a judge. Ironically, JRJ himself created a flawed process by acting in bad faith against his own appointments. The Rajapaksa government went further and has turned the impeachment process into a political witch hunt and asserting it as a constitutional right and parliamentary privilege. The Supreme Court has now ruled conclusively and in no uncertain terms that:

"In a State ruled by a Constitution based on the rule of law, no court, tribunal or other body (by whatever name it is called) has authority to make a finding or a decision affecting the rights of a person unless such Court, tribunal or body has the power conferred on it by law to make such finding or decision. Such legal power can be conferred on such court, tribunal or body only by an Act of Parliament which is 'law' and not by Standing Orders which are not law but are rules made for the regulation of the orderly conduct and affairs of the Parliament. The Standing Orders are not law within the meaning of Article 170 of the Constitution which defines what is meant by 'law'. The power to make a valid finding, after the investigation contemplated in Article 107 (3), can be conferred on a court, tribunal or body or only by law and by law alone."

In passing, the Court also disagreed with the submission of the Attorney General and Counsel for the intervener petitioners that the "power of removal of the judges of the Supreme Court and the Court of Appeal is a power of parliament. " Parliament can only move a resolution for impeachment and make "an address of Parliament to be presented to the President for the removal of such judge for proved misbehavior or incapacity." The Court ruled that "The power of removal of such judge is the power of the President." Interstingly, the ruling stops short of saying whether the President has the discretion of not removing a judge after receiving an address by parliament for the removal of that judge.

Considering the fact that they were dealing with a matter that affected the superior court judges, the three judges in their ruling reiterated the "spirit of detached objective inquiry" in which they "attempted to find an answer to the question" referred to them, and that they have performed their duty faithfully bearing in mind the oath of office taken by them when they assumed judicial office.

Political implications

The Supreme Court ruling has posed an insurmountable hurdle of constitutional credibility to the government's plan to move ahead with the removal of the Chief Justice. The bottom line in constitutional governance is that a government must accept the constitutional determination of the Supreme Court even if it does not agree with the Court's ruling. In this instance, the Supreme Court has given a ruling that hardly anyone can seriously argue against. And the government knows that it cannot credibly argue its way out through another Speaker's ruling, not that previous rulings passed serious muster. The easier and the only honest option for the government would be to fall in line with the Court's ruling as I indicated at the outset. The more difficult and utterly dishonest and irresponsible option would be to defy the court ruling and plunge the country into constitutional and political chaos.

It is time that those, who are friends of both the President and the Chief Justice and who keep calling upon the Chief Justice to step down for the sake of national interest, turned their appeals for once to the President. Why is it that they do not ask the President even once, not to step down, but to halt the impeachment process? It is not the Chief Justice who is sullying the country's name abroad but the government's threat to remove her from office. If the government abides by the Supreme Court's ruling it would restore some normalcy at home and somewhat compensate for its battered credibility abroad.

It should now be clear to the government that the impeachment process was ill advised from the beginning and that it has bitten a lot more than it could chew. Equally, the UNP Opposition has boxed itself into ineffectuality by being dishonestly evasive in regard to the impeachment process. With Machiavellian intent, the UNP leader wanted the Chief Justice removed and the government fatally discredited. It has backfired on the UNP because it has lost its identity in the whole impeachment drama. It has talked from both sides of its mouth – asserting parliamentary supremacy and railing against the PSC process, and has lost its own credibility as an alternative to the government.

Unlike at the time of the passage of the 18th Amendment, proceeding with the impeachment in defiance of the Court ruling will have immediate repercussions. Disregarding the Supreme Court's ruling will nullify the superior courts and destabilize the entire judiciary. The government is in no position to do what JRJ did in the 1980s and get away with it, namely, to send home many superior court judges and repack the courts with new judges. There will be a revolt, and rightly so.

Also, if the government has learnt anything from the appointment of judges after 1977, it must know that even handpicked judges cannot be relied upon to deliver favourable judgments at all times. In fact they become independent in their own way while in office. Of the more recent controversial appointees, if Neville Samarakone demonstrated independence consistently, Sarath Silva has done it perversely, and Shirani Bandaranayakehas shown independence belatedly.

Before 1977, the parliamentary system served the country well in avoiding such aberrations as we are experiencing now. The impeachment of judges was unheard of as the ethos of cricket was observed in politics in accepting even unfavourable judicial decisions. More importantly, the governments were also held in constant check by a strong, vigorous and well informed opposition led by the Left. Apart from their extraordinary parliamentary abilities, the Left leaders derived much of their political clout from the working class mass movement outside parliament. The trade unions were the main 'bulwark of democracy' in Sri Lanka, as AJ Wilson used to say. Now there is neither a strong leadership in parliament nor a bulwark of democracy outside parliament.

The courts can only partially fill this void. Without the sword and the gun, as Alexander Hamilton has said, there is very little that the judiciary can do except delivering good judgements. The Supreme Court has delivered a good judgement that would be the touchstone for Sri Lankan politics for the rest of this year, if not longer. The government could persuade itself to abide by the ruling and stop the current impeachment process or, it could choose to defy the ruling at its own peril. To the country at large, the ruling provides a rallying point from which the people will hold the government's feet to the constitutional fire.





Fonterra appoints new MD for Sri Lanka

January 5, 2013, 7:24 pm

Fonterra Co-operative Group Ltd announced Leon Clement as the new Managing Director for Fonterra Brands in Sri Lanka. He has taken over from Achyut Kasireddy who has relocated to a role within Fonterra in China.

Managing Director ASEAN/MENA Mark Wilson said Mr Clement is well placed to guide Fonterra in this important dairy market.





Manju is back

January 5, 2013, 5:18 pm

by Roshen Steelman

Boxer Manju Wanniarachchi is aiming at taking part in all domestic competitions in a bid to keep in form for the forthcoming South Asian Games. Wanniarachchi returned to the ring at the recently held nationals after serving a two-year ban. He said this in an interview with the Sunday Island Sportstar recently that he is aiming at the South Asian Games.

"I am 33 now. I have one more year left. (According to Amateur Boxing regulations a boxer has to retire at the age of 34). My aim is to take part in all major domestic events and I am looking at the possibilities of competing at the South Asian Games," said Wanniarachchi.

Wanniarachchi won the gold at the Commonwealth Games 2010 in the Bantam Weight category when he defeated Sean McGoldrick of Wales in the final. But he was stripped off his medal after failing a drug test. In late 2010 the National Olympic Committee of Sri Lanka announced that Wanniarachchi had failed a drug test following his medal victory at the Commonwealth Games. He was found positive for nandrolone, a banned performance enhancing drug. Wanniarachchi claimed that he failed the drug test because of a medicine he was prescribed for asthma. A 'B' sample test too returned positive later and subsequently he was stripped off the medal and was imposed a two year ban.

Although there were reports that he would fight against the ban, a statement issued by his employer later said that Wanniarachchi had announced his retirement. Hence his return to the ring was quite surprising.

"I want to prove something for my fans and people in this country. That is the reason of my return. I was not thinking of making a come back. But I love this game and I found it very hard to be out from it," Wanniarchchi explained.

When Wanniarachchi won the Commonwealth Games gold medal his father Daya Thilak claimed that it was the happiest moment of his life. "My son winning the gold medal at the Commonwealth Games is the happiest moment in my life. I can't recall any other day where I have been happier," Daya Thilak said in an interview with The Island. Sadly, Daya Thilak could not live to see his son make a return to the boxing ring. He passed away some five months back. Wanniarachchi said that his father's support during the ban was important.

While serving the ban, Wanniarachchi said that he continued his normal routine and it helped him make a return in good form.

"I continued with my normal routine during the ban. I did my workouts in gym. I was supporting my school Vidyartha College, Kandy as well. In future too I will serve my country as much as I can."

"I am hoping to get involved in the sport as a coach after the retirement. That will occur after one year," Wanniarchchi said.





A book for readers of all ages

Review by Emil van der Poorten

January 5, 2013, 6:49 pm

This is the second slim children's book by Prashan Thalayasingam that it has been my pleasure to read and review.

While I am anything but "a man of letters" and have no credentials as a book reviewer or literary critic, suffice it to say that while it has given me great pleasure to read both Prashan's children's books, this one has again presented me with a challenge similar to that which faced me the first time around when I read and sought to express my thoughts about "Butterfly Kisses & Turtle Tears" (BK & TT from here on in): how to review something this delightful from a child's perspective while studiously avoiding the pitfalls of being in any way patronizing or "cute." In addition, my ambition knowing no bounds, I wondered whether I couldn't throw in an opinion on why an adult should read "Angel Games & Little Flames' as a parable for our (Sri Lankan) time.

By the close of BK & TT which was centred on a butterfly named Leah and her (unlikely) turtle friend called Tao we had been introduced to a character of slightly darker hue, a moth named Luna.

In Angel Games & Little Flames (AG&LF), Prashan takes up the narrative from where he left it in BK & TT. Now, in addition to a greatly expanded role for Luna in the tale, we are introduced to Fee, a mildly eccentric member of the firefly clan who is a bit of a "loner" insofar as her own species is concerned. In fact, what seems to distinguish every character in the story is their individuality, none of them are close to a stereotype of their own "kind." There is a consistency to this that more than suggests it is intentional and it provides a liberating atmosphere for the entire narrative and one feels that there is more than a hint of allegory to the story, an espousal of a liberal and democratic world which provides the cultural climate for their distinctively different lives to thrive.

The only really sinister members of the community are the "Hoomans," and I suspect Prashan has deliberately painted them with broad brushstrokes that leave no doubt as to where they exist in the spectrum of good and evil. Their stupid and endless greed seems over-arching and carrying the potential to destroy the world as every one of the other inhabitants know it. Their behaviour deliberately and stupidly tramples any element of discipline that might leave some of nature's bounty for consumption on the morrow by those who will follow us.

A thread that is constant throughout the narrative is a gentle message of the need for acceptance of difference, not just tolerance but acceptance. Also, the need to conserve and manage our natural resources in such a manner that we leave something behind for our children and their children and those to follow them is omnipresent. That message is gently but firmly carried throughout the narrative and is most effective for that reason.

Prashan, coming from a "mixed' family as he does probably experienced at least some of the trauma of late twentieth and early 21st century Sri Lanka and one cannot escape the feeling that this is his response to what he grew up with in his formative years.

All pseudo-psychology apart though, the message, though not delivered with a sledge-hammer, comes through very clearly and it is in fact that gentleness that pervades the book and which, I am sure will resonate both with the adult as well as the juvenile reader.

This is not a tale with the underlying horror that many of the classic fairytales contain. It is very different in tone and content and therein lies its strength. Prashan's avoidance of the trite and melodramatic is laudable, indeed, and is something that will be welcomed by readers of all ages as well.

One can but hope that Prashan will continue writing, whether it is books of this or another genre because one senses a still untapped talent and the ability to convey a greater message than the one delineated on the printed page. He appears to have a sensitivity to and feel for the emotions of the reader that is uncommon. He promises a great deal of enjoyment to a wide variety of readers in the years ahead, an enjoyment that does not require all kinds of intellectual brilliance.

I am reminded of a great jazz performer from the past whose lines were so simple and elegant and whose playing could not be matched by others of his generation who had enormous technical proficiency and brought a pyrotechnical approach to their music. That jazzman brought so much enjoyment to so many by virtue of the simple manner in which he expressed what was in his mind and heart. Prashan seems to have that capacity and one can but hope that he will continue to give of those attributes and skills in the years ahead."





THE SITAWAKA KINGDOM (1521- 1594)

January 5, 2013, 6:55 pm

KAMALIKA PIERIS

The Sitawaka 'kingdom' was created in 1521 when the three sons of Vijayabahu VI (1513-1521) divided the Kotte kingdom among themselves. Buveneka bahu VII (1521-51) took the sovereign title and the major portion of the kingdom. Mayadunne (1521-81) next in line to the throne was given Sitawaka, Satara, Denavaka and Hevagama korales, as well as Kuruviti, Atulugam, Panaval, Handapandunu, Beligal and Dehigampal korales. This collection included the areas which were the most difficult to administer. It also controlled the route to Udarata. The powerful Satara korale containing Kinigoda, Galboda, Parankuru and Mayadunu korales was usually administered by the heir to the throne. Satara korale was the most bitterly oppose to Portuguese rule, their hostility increasing with proximity to Colombo. Pararajasinghe got Raigama and Pasdun korale. He later handed these over to Mayadunne and left the scene. When Pararajasinghe died and Raigama reverted to Buvaneka bahu, he formally transferred it to Mayadunne.

Sitawaka was never a 'kingdom' but it acquired the status of a kingdom due to the policies of Buvaneka bahu VII. Buvaneka bahu's chief advisor was a Portuguese, the Catholic pastor, Nuno Freyre de Andrade, who arrived in 1524. This pastor made sure that Buvaneka bahu did as the Portuguese wanted. Buvaneka bahu was also influenced by Antonio Saraiva, who had married in Sri Lanka and spoke Sinhala. The Portuguese also influenced other royals. André de Sousa controlled Buvaneka bahu's nephew. He converted him, became his godfather and created a link between him and the Portuguese king.

*Mayadunne saw that Buvaneka bahu was on the verge of giving the Sinhala kingdom to the Portuguese. Mayadunne, as the next in line to the throne tried to unseat Buvaneka bahu by repeatedly waging war against him, starting in 1526. In 1527, Mayadunne proclaimed himself king and attacked Kotte with the aid of the Samudri of Calicut. Once he started to fight the Portuguese, Mayadunne never let up though he was repeatedly defeated. He fought the Portuguese in the 1530s, 1540s and 1550s. Pararajasingham supported Mayadunne. There were victories and reversals. Kotte army was confined to the city for most of 1549. In 1552 a missionary noted that the Sinhalese in Portuguese areas had 'all fled to the jungle, and the houses in Kotte have all been destroyed and burned'. But in 1550, the Portuguese marched on Sitawaka and sacked it. Buvaneka bahu survived because the Portuguese supported him. But Mayadunne succeed in winning over many of the chiefs of Kotte and by 1541 most lands and ports which pledged formal allegiance to Buvaneka bahu were under the control of Mayadunne. The revenue went to Sitawaka.

Buvaneka bahu wanted to make his grandson Dharmapala his heir. In 1540 he sent an embassy to Portugal with a golden statue of little Dharmapala. The party was received with great ceremony and the effigy was crowned in Portugal in 1543. Portuguese king Dom Joao III declared that Dharmapala should succeed Buvaneka bahu as king. Buvaneka bahu promised to pay tribute to the Portuguese and also pay the expenses of the Portuguese army stationed in his kingdom. Buvaneka bahu's two sons by the yakada doli objected saying they should inherit the throne. They were packed off to Portugal with Buvaneka bahu paying their expenses. They died of small pox at Goa.

When Buvaneka bahu died in 1551, the Portuguese made Dharmapala king, with his father, Vidiye Bandara as regent. Mayadunne as the rightful heir challenged this succession. He proclaimed himself king and advanced on Portuguese held Kotte. He was defeated by the largest Portuguese force ever to land in Sri Lanka. The Portuguese were determined to keep Mayadunne out. But Sitawaka gained in prestige and Mayadunne became the rallying point against the Portuguese.

Mayadunne also engaged in negotiations with the Portuguese .The new Portuguese viceroy to Goa accidentally entered Colombo in 1550, while on his way to Goa. Buvanake bahu did not dance attendance on him, but Maydunne's emissary met him. Then in 1553, Vidiye Bandera rebelled against the Portuguese and the Portuguese turned to Mayadunne for assistance. A deal was struck Dharmapala's kingdom would only include Salpiti and Raigam korales and a coastal strip from Colombo to Valitota, the rest of the Kotte kingdom would go to Mayadunne. In return Mayadunne would be a vassal of Portugal and pay tribute in cinnamon. Mayadunne defeated Vidiye Bandara with the assistance of his son, Tikiri Bandara (later Rajasinha I from 1581-93). In 1555 he took over Sath korale and Pitigal korale as agreed and Sitawaka emerged as the largest and strongest kingdom in the island.

Mayadunne gained still more support when Dharmapala became a Catholic in 1557. The sangha urged the public to support Mayadunne and Kotte turned increasingly to him. Its inhabitants declared for Mayadunne. Pieris observed that Dharmapala was left without subjects or revenue and with only the bare title of King. A large Sitawaka army marched on Kotte and besieged it for one year. The Portuguese were so unprepared for the siege that Sitawaka nearly got the fort. Sitawaka constructed two forts, one at Kaduwela, to guard the approach to Sitawaka by land and another at Biyagama to guard the Kelani Ganga approach. The army settled at Hewagama and harassed Colombo and Kotte forts. Rajasinha put up a poster saying that he would reward all those who came over to him and he would kill the rest. Some of the Portuguese army defected to Mayadunne.

In 1560 Sitawaka besieged both Colombo and then Kotte. Communications between Kotte and Colombo were cut off. Rajasinha I personally directed the Kotte siege. It was so successful that the inhabitants around the fort, declared for Mayadunne. Rajasinha called on those inside the fort to do the same. Those living in the fort told the Portuguese to either get rid of Rajasinha or hand the fort over to Mayadunne. The mother of Mayadunne fell in to Portuguese hands but they did not recognise her and let her go. The fighting continued and in 1563 it looked as though Kotte would fall. But Sitawaka for some reason withdrew and the Portuguese were able to regain Kotte. Sitawaka continued to attack Kotte in the two years that followed and in 1565 Portuguese again thought all was lost. But Sitawaka once again ended the siege and went back home. The Portuguese however, got the message. They abandoned Kotte and moved permanently to Colombo.

*Mayadunne and Rajasinha were obsessed with getting the Portuguese out of Sri Lanka. Sitawaka quickly mastered the techniques of modern warfare and military technology and in conventional warfare they proved to be a match and often more than a match for the Portuguese. Sitawaka failed to win mainly because it lacked a navy that could match the Portuguese. Sitawaka did not have the advantage of hills like the Udarata. Also, the Kelani River, unlike the Mahaweli, was navigable almost up to Sitawaka's capital city and the Portuguese came up along it. But, Sitawaka had forests, and skilled guerilla fighters. The Portuguese found it difficult to get to Sitawaka.

C.R .de Silva notes that by 1565, most of the cinnamon lands were under Mayadunne. Sitawaka took over the trade and sold cinnamon at a profit. De Silva also says that by 1570, Sitawaka was strong enough to defeat the Portuguese or even a combination of Portuguese and Udarata in open battle. And around 1574, Mayadunne seized the Portuguese ships in the ports of Kalutara, Beruwela and Alutgama. In 1578, with the consent of his subjects, Mayadunne handed Sitawaka over to Rajasinha I. Then came the two great sieges of Colombo in 1579 and 1587-88. These sieges left the Portuguese exhausted. Rajasinha inspired terror in the Portuguese. Whenever Rajasinha appeared and took personal charge, the Portuguese fled.

Sitawaka also eyed Udarata, where the Portuguese priest, Nuno Alvares Pereira was influencing the ruler, Jayavira Bandara. There was a successful but temporary Mayadunne- Buvaneka bahu attack on Udarata in 1545. Sitawaka had a punitive raid in 1574, with a bigger attack in 1578, where Sitawaka were compelled to withdraw because the Portuguese were attacking in the south. Sitawaka invaded again in 1582, when Karaliyadde Bandara was ruling as nominee of the Portuguese. Udarata fell to Sitawaka and was under Sitawaka rule for ten years. The Sitawaka kingdom had reached it peak. Rajasinha was ruling over most of the island.

A revolt led by Weerasundara bandara in the Udarata was crushed soon after and his son Konappu bandara, (later Wimaladharmasuriya I) fled to the Portuguese. Thereafter Sitawaka declined. After his failure to capture Colombo in 1588 Rajasinha faced revolts in his own kingdom. In 1590, Sath korale rebelled and the Portuguese moved in and destroyed the stockades at Biyagama and Kaduwela. Rajasinha beheaded the commanders of these two stockades. This antagonized the people some more. Then Udarata revolted. Rajasinha went up and was defeated at Ganetenna. He died on his way back, at the age of 50. Rajasinha had eliminated almost every potential rival and when he died there was no one to continue the attack on the Portuguese. His grandson Rajasuriya (1593-94) was proclaimed king. He was soon killed and the infant grandson of Widiye Bandara., 'Nikapitiye bandara,' was proclaimed king.

Arittaki Vendu Perumal, an emigrant from India's Coromandel Coast, who had been appointed Mannamperuma Mohottiar by Rajasinha, had helped to install Nikapitiye. When his marriage proposal to Nikapitiye's sister was rejected, he contacted the Portuguese and offered to help them to get back Kotte, with Sitwaka for himself. Without leadership, the army lost morale. A large section of the Sinhalese army went over to the Portuguese deserting Mannamperuma. With their support, the Portuguese annexed Sitawaka and brought almost the whole of the old Kotte kingdom under their rule. Perumal converted to Catholicism and held a high position in the Portuguese army.

K.M. de Silva observed that under Mayadunne and Rajasinha I, Sitawaka emerged as the largest and strongest kingdom in the island. Mayadunne and Rajasinha I were the dominant political figures of their time. . Sitwaka kingdom lasted for 70 years. De Silva says during this period Sitawaka established a record of resistance to foreign rule which has never been matched in the history of western rule in Sri Lanka. . For 40 years Sitwaka confined Portuguese power and Christian conversion to the environs of Colombo. Sitawaka's greatest legacy was this resistance which was then taken over by Udarata.

The writings of C.R. de Silva, K.M. de Silva, L.S. Dewaraja, J.M. Flores, Philip Gunawardene, P.E. Pieris and G.V.P. Somaratne were used for this essay.





Editorial

Filling the hotels

September 13, 2014, 7:48 pm

There is no need to labor the fact that many of Sri Lanka's economic eggs – some say too many - have been placed in the tourism basket. Every day we read of new projects entering the pipeline and questions have been raised on whether we will have enough trained and competent service staff to take up the jobs that will be on offer in the various new hotels already built and those nearing completion. While we hear complaints that trained staff strike out to the Middle East, the Maldives and many other countries to grab available job opportunities, we also see many Lankans having acquired valuable experience overseas returning home to accept new jobs on offer by a rapidly expanding domestic industry. This is a process that will continue certainly in the short term and probably in the medium term with the balance hopefully tilting in our favor.

Mr. Ravi Thambiayah, Chairman of the Renuka Hotel Group, has said in the recently released annual report of Renuka City Hotels PLC that there is an exponential rise in the number of hotels being built in the country and approximately 52 new hotels are expected to come up this year alone adding to the 1,465 hotels already registered. Quite apart from those establishments in the organized sector, a large number of home owners have in recent years earned useful additional income by letting out rooms to tourists in their houses, both in Colombo and in the resort areas. These guesthouses, if we may call them that, are sometimes registered and sometimes not with the regulator. Nevertheless they are not regarded as a part of the country's hotel stock. Thambiayah says that 16 of the 52 new hotels due to be completed later this year will be located in Colombo adding over 2,000 rooms to existing capacity. Although they will compete with his two properties well established in the city, he says that ``this growth and competition would be welcome if there is a steady increase in tourist arrivals.''

So far it has been so good. There has been a steady increase in arrivals with the targets surpassed and the country hopefully on track to achieve 2.5 million visitors by 2016. In addition to the global brands already present here, like the Colombo Hilton in operation for many years, other top names like Shangri-La of Hong Kong/Singapore, Spain's RIU Hotels and Resorts, Singapore's Aman Resorts and Banyan Tree and Mustafa Groups are already developing new properties here or plans to do so are well advanced. We will soon have brands like Sheraton, Starwood, Mariott, Hyatt and Movenpick here. But it is self-evident that more and more visitors must come into the country to fill these hotels. We must not forget how we shot ourselves in the foot after the communal riots of July 1983 when the country's image was blackened internationally and several big hotel chains, seizing incentives granted by the 1977 government, found themselves left high and dry. A couple of these quoted on the Colombo Stock Exchange have still not been able to pay dividends. The crumb of a free lunch once a year thrown to their shareholders as compensation has now been dispensed with although there are still no dividends!

In an article written to mark World Tourism Day which falls later this month, Lakshman Ratnapala, an old tourism hand who once represented the Ceylon Tourist Board in New York and later headed the Pacific Area Travel Association in San Francisco notes that although last year (2013) had seen for the first time over a billion tourists recorded globally, this is a ``testing time'' for tourism. Ongoing political conflicts in North Africa, military action in the Middle East, Ukraine and Afghanistan, the spread of the Ebola virus disease can all affect decisions of people to travel. However the comfort factor is that if one destination appears undesirable for whatever reason, people do not cancel their travel plans. They opt to go somewhere else. We have perhaps benefited from some holidaymakers giving Thailand a wide berth owing to the conflicts there. But we must be always alive to the widely-held perception particularly in the region that better value for money is on offer destinations like Thailand and Malaysia than in Sri Lanka. While we must not under-price ourselves as we did in the worst times when cut-throat competition reigned and a room in a five star hotel in Colombo could be had for as little as 15 dollars, we must also not overprice ourselves.

The willingness of local businessmen to invest in hotels is a clear indicator of their confidence of the future of the industry. So also the entry of many foreign players and investment in expansion and refurbishment that is ongoing. But regulators must guard against over-capacity. The desire for investment, both local and foreign, must not be allowed to create a situation of too many hotel rooms in some areas. Thambiayah, for example, is developing a Colombo property acquired some years ago to build a hotel to offer shopping and office space. That seems to imply a belief that hotel space in the city is getting overcrowded. As he has pointed out, the tourism industry needs to focus not only on increasing the number of rooms but also developing activities like shopping malls, theme parks, entertainment complexes, international events and yes, that dirty word, casinos! John Keells Holdings is investing mega-bucks in its waterfront development on the basis that some casinos will be located on that property. But government is being coy on the subject for obvious political reasons. One way of filling our hotels is to attract gamblers here and hardheaded economics must trump moral reservations if we are to derive maximum mileage from ongoing investment.





Indian Supreme Court says it cannot order suspension of legislators accused of rape

30% of Indian legislators are facing criminal charges

January 5, 2013, 7:21 pm

by S Venkat Narayan - Our Special CorrespondentNEW DELHI, January 5:

India's Supreme Court on Friday declined to hear a plea for disqualifying legislators charge-sheeted for crimes against women. However, it agreed to go into issues of fast track trial of rape cases and implementation of laws for safety of women.

The apex court, which was hearing two PILs filed after the December 16 gang rape incident in Delhi that shook the country, said it can only give notice to the government on limited issues as some of the prayers made in the petitions are beyond its jurisdiction.

The highest court in the land was told that out of 4,835 legislators, comprising Members of Parliament (MPs) and Members of Legislative Assemblies (MLAs) of 28 states and seven union territories in the country, 1,448 are facing criminal cases.

This means three out of every ten legislators in the world's largest democracy are facing criminal charges!

"The issue of disqualification of MPs and MLAs is not in our jurisdiction," a bench comprising Justices KS Radhakrishnan and Dipak Misra said.

"What is our power on MPs and MLAs? Obviously, such a sweeping relief can't be sought," the bench said referring to the prayer made for a direction for suspension of MPs and MLAs who have been charge-sheeted for crimes against women.

The bench, during the hearing, suggested that the PIL petitioners should have taken a ground that if the investigation into the cases is not up to the mark, it should be treated as "misconduct" on the part of the Investigating Officer.

The bench also asked the government to apprise it about the terms and references of the Justice JS Verma Committee which was set up to review and strengthen the existing law on rape and offences against women.

While the submission was made about the disqualification of politicians facing criminal cases, the bench observed that without going into the status of a person in life, they should be put on fast track trial.

However, the bench said at the moment it is not concerned with the issue and decided to hear the PIL on the limited issues.

The apex court also agreed that there is a need for fast track courts and additional judges.

"There are lots of vacancies for the judges and lots of courts have to be set up," the bench remarked.

The court's observations came during hearing of the PILs filed by Ms Promilla Shanker, a retired woman officer of the Indian Administrative Service (IAS), and Ms Omika Dubey, an advocate and social activist.

Apart from seeking suspension of MPs and MLAs charge-sheeted for crime against women, Shanker in her petition has also sought that cases of rape and crime against women and children be investigated by women police officials and that trials be also conducted by lady judges.

In her plea, she has also said that no effort was being made for effective implementation of existing laws for safety of women.

In her plea, Dubey has sought directions for appointment of additional judges to adjudicate the matters of crime against women and for providing compulsory compensation to victims of rape.

She has also sought an order to restrain print and electronic media from publishing and telecasting obscene pictures of women.

Dubey has also raised issues of red light areas where girls are forced into prostitution.

The PILs were filed before the apex court days after the brutal gangrape and murder of a 23-year-old paramedical student in Delhi on December 16. The victim died in a Singapore hospital on December 29.





Chasing growth: macro-economics should not be sacrificed

January 5, 2013, 6:01 pm

By R.M.B Senanayake

In 2010 the per capita real growth rate was 6.95% and in 2011 it was 7.13%; but it is expected to come down in 2012 to say 6.4% owing to the lower over-all growth rate which is now revised downwards to 6.5%. The GDP for 2012 at 6.5% growth would be a per capita growth of 6.4% The population according to the recent census 2011/2012 is 20.278 million which is below the mid-year population of 2011 which was 20.869.The estimated real GDP is estimated at Rs 4,317.4 billion. Per capita growth increases by 6.3%.

The reduction in growth rate is partly due to the fall in export growth due to the global recession and the reduction of bank credit to the private sector owing to the credit ceiling imposed by the Central Bank. Government expenditure on both consumption and investment however continued to increase while private sector investment was curbed by the credit ceiling on bank lending and the higher rates of interest required to mobilize deposits by the financial institutions which faced a reduction in liquidity. This was due to the continuing deficit in the net foreign exchange inflows although there is a US$ 100 million inflow of foreign capital for the whole year.

We have gone through similar situations in the past when higher growth has been cut down by foreign exchange constraints. We run a huge trade deficit and a smaller current account deficit in the balance of payments estimated for 2012 at US$ 3.3 billion; but the banks' net foreign assets declined by Rs 122 billion ( a little under US$1 billion).

Consider the macro-economic implication of government expenditure which offsets any reduction in domestic incomes due to the external sector current account deficit. Economists have pointed out that a highly trade oriented small open economy cannot have sustainable growth without export growth for as government expenditure increases and the budget deficit rises in absolute terms, the Aggregate Demand in the economy increases too. This induces higher demand for imports particularly if the rupee is over-valued as it was in 2011. Hence there takes place a deficit in the over-all balance of payments (including the capital account) which leads to a loss of foreign exchange reserves.

Our Gross Foreign Reserves although high are mostly borrowed and some of the borrowings are falling due for repayment while others are short term inflows to the bond and stock markets which can leave at the earliest signs of a weakening of the debt repayment capacity or of a steep fall in the rupee. Our foreign debt is being rolled over. No harm in that, but it has the risk that if the re-financing or roll-over even at higher rates of interest fails to materialize then there would be a run on the currency. If we borrow at higher and higher commercial rates of interest then the debt servicing capacity is also affected.

It is true that we have managed to re-finance foreign debt at lower rates of interest and even managed to borrow for 10 years for the first time. But more and more debt weakens the exchange rate too. The Central Bank has pointed out the dire results of a rupee depreciation on the debt value in 2012 which rose by Rs 278 billion. But we cannot run a stable exchange rate with 9.5% inflation for it causes over-valuation of the rupee which in turn will cause a balance of payments crisis as in 2011. So our Debt/GDP ratio rises to 81% in 2012.

Treasury responsible for macro-economic balance

It is easy but deceptive to show a budget deficit to GDP ratio as coming down by postponing payments for goods and services purchased and made use of during the year. Will the Treasury disclose the aggregate value of payments in arrears as at the end of the financial year? Of course it would be necessary to also know the value of payments in arrears which were brought forward from last year as well. There is however no dispute that the absolute value of the government expenditure has increased considerably and the public sector deficit which includes the losses run by the state corporations ( said to be Rs 100 billion) has increased Aggregate Demand far more than any increase in Aggregate Supply creating an imbalance. In 2011 the fall in Total Domestic Savings from 19% to 15% of GDP show how people are drawing down their savings to maintain their current consumption level which is eroded by inflation. Inflation would be more - by at least 2-3 percentage points - if not for its suppression through government subsidies on fuel and electricity.

The public sector deficit must be brought down

There is also the fiscal multiplier. In certain activities multiplier values less than one have been empirically measured (an example in sports stadiums), suggesting that certain types of government spending crowd out private investment that would have otherwise taken place. This crowding out can occur because the initial increase in spending may cause an increase in interest rates or in the price level. So if the government continues business as usual, then unless the private sector is made to shrink correspondingly, there will be growth with higher inflation and/or balance of payments deficits leading to loss of foreign reserves.

The position is worsened by funding the public sector deficit through printing money. Printing money helps the Central Bank to keep low the short term interest rates in the money market and help the Treasury to borrow cheaply. But it will not have the same benefits for the private sector. This is because owing to the foreign exchange imbalance the banks lose deposits and have to top them up by mobilizing more deposits at higher rates of interest and selling foreign assets.

So should the government carry on its infrastructure investment program? There is no doubt that we need to rebuild infrastructure. We need to spend more on roads, railways, bridges, cement factories, power plants etc. But when the government does so there is the need for higher imports of machinery & equipment, of building material etc and these would worsen the balance of payments unless we can fund them on long term foreign loans at low rates of interest.

But even then the domestic expenditure would still increase domestic incomes on that part of government expenditure in domestic rupees and lead to higher consumption goods imports. If we don't invest in infrastructure (although we should be more selective and be guided by cost/benefit analysis) then our growth rate will fall and growth prospects undermined for the long term. We also cannot depend on the exchange rate depreciation to cut down imports. Exchange rate depreciation increases the cost of all imports including the capital goods required for infrastructure investment and consumer goods including food imports.

Economic Reform is needed

What is necessary is to restructure the economy by making it more market oriented. The government raised the price of petrol but the diesel subsidy continues. The beneficiaries of the diesel subsidy are not only the poor who would otherwise have to pay higher prices for goods since transport costs would go up; but also the diesel vehicle owners in the upper class. Such subsidies distort the markets and provide the wrong incentives to people. The capitalist economy is guided by market prices which reflect costs. Subsidies give the public the wrong information about economic realities. Unless prices reflect costs, individuals cannot legitimately be assumed to know underlying economic realities independently of them. People protest when subsidies are reduced or removed. But the continuation of subsidies only perpetuates the false economy where the government and the rich live beyond their means. Even the fertilizer subsidy is not desirable for it leads to the excessive use of fertilizers which may have adverse effects on agricultural conditions.

The beneficial effects of farm subsidies are not likely to be long lasting. Economist Gordon Tullock argued nearly forty years ago that any net gains that farmers receive from subsidies will likely be largely (if not fully) captured in higher prices of farmers' resource inputs, primarily fixed assets like land. This will be a disincentive to those entrepreneurs who want to expand their farm holdings. We also need to do away with discrimination against foreigners who want to buy land. They cannot take the land away and it is the economically illiterate JVP that opposes it. Chinese and Japanese are allowed to buy property in USA, Canada etc (State owned companies may be restricted from buying strategic assets though)

Economy must be more market oriented.

The large education sector cannot respond to market forces because much of it does not carry prices. We can continue to provide free education to all and make the suppliers- the schools, to respond to market forces if we introduce a universal voucher scheme as in Sweden. Under a voucher scheme, parents would receive government funding on a per child basis (doing away with unfair distribution of funds among the schools), which they could spend on a public or private school of their choice. School choice for parents promotes competition and encourages greater autonomy in the management of schools. Vouchers lead to improvements in teaching standards, student test scores, parental satisfaction and equality of opportunity.

India is seeking to credit cash grants to the poor directly to their bank accounts. Such a measure will eliminate corruption and leakages in our Samurdhi scheme.





Monash professor to deliver Gamani Corea lecture

January 5, 2013, 6:00 pm

The Fifth Gamani Corea Foundation Lecture will be given by Professor Sisira Jayasuriya, Professor of Economics, Monash University, Melbourne and Adjunct Professor, Arndt-Corden Division of Economics at the Australian National University.

He will speak on "External Shocks, Crises and Policy Responses: Lessons from International Experience'' on Thursday January 10 at 5.00 p. m. at the Marga Institute Auditorium, 941/1, Jayanthi Mawatha, Kotte Rd. Ethul Kotte.





Pensioners on poverty street

January 5, 2013, 6:54 pm

We public servants who served the people of this country for periods ranging from 25 to 35 years and more on salaries that were less than those paid to Indian or Pakistan public servants leave alone those in South East Asian countries, draw a pittance as pension depending on the salaries we drew at the time of retirement.

Those who retired in the Socialist era,1956 – 1977, are today in old age and can barely afford to buy their food leave alone buying medicines, and further with Inflation eating into even the pittance they receive are facing unbelievably difficult times; quite a few of them are living in abject poverty.

In the name of Social Justice this humane government must ameliorate the conditions of us pensioners. Today's senior public officials serving as Secretaries of Ministries would also join our ranks in a few years time —- they enjoy very high salaries unlike in our time and this would cushion them in retirement; but let us hope that they will spare a thought for those who served many years before and who drew salaries which were half what they draw today, and help revise our pensions realistically. That would indeed be a meritorious act.





FRANK SEBARATNAM: A Quintessential Outstation Hero

January 5, 2013, 5:16 pm

Beyond NostalgiaBy Revata S. Silva

Frank Sebaratnam is often considered one of the most prolific tennis players Sri Lanka produced during her post independence era. His remarkable record in both Sri Lanka Nationals and the Davis Cup is a proof for this fact.

Emerging in the 1970s, Sebaratnam was one of the first tennis champions to come from outstations. He says he had to travel to Colombo to take part in the Under-15 and 18 National Junior Championships in 1969 and '72 respectively. He emerged champion in both those years.

He dominated the National tennis circuit in the late 1970s and the early 1980s.

Frank took to tennis coaching later. He married one of his pupils, Priyanthie Bandaranaike, Sri Lanka's No.1 women's player for three years. They migrated to Bahrain where Frank won the main national title there. Then Frank and Priyanthie went to live in Australia where Frank is now running a tennis academy.

QUOTES

I was born in 1954. My dad introduced tennis to me when I was nine. He was the District champion and played in both Mannar and Jaffna.

We were living in Mannar then. The game was not much popular in the outstations that time. Only some senior players, mostly government servants, played tennis in the outstations. Colombo was the main hub of tennis in the country.

My first coach was my dad. In fact, he had been my only coach. In Colombo, there were a handful of coaches. There were coaches who had been assigned for respective tournaments, like the Davis Cup, which I took part in. Other than that, my father was my only coach in my whole career.

I won the Under-15 Junior Nationals tennis title representing St. Patrick's College, Jaffna. I won the Junior Nationals in Under-18 too. That was in the year 1972. By that time, our family had moved from Mannar to Jaffna. I travelled from Jaffna to Colombo to win the Under-15 title in 1969 and Under-18 in 1972. At the Junior Nationals those days, there was no Under-12.

I moved to Colombo when I was 19. After that, the Sri Lanka Tennis Association (SLTA) became my second home.

Lasantha Fernando, Suresh Sivagnanam, Suresh Melvani and, a bit later, Arjun Fernando were the most dominant players at that time. Arjun was about three years junior to me.

I won my first Nationals (Singles) title in 1979 (beating Lasantha Fernando in the final). Till then I was the Number 1 in the country but foreign players took part in the Nationals and they got away with the main titles. In fact, I was the No. 1 since about 1977.

In 1982, I beat an Indian player named Srinivasan to win my second Nationals. Then I won the third the following year (1983) beating (the late) Arjan Perera in the finals.

When I was 25, in 1979, I left Sri Lanka. I was based in Bahrain up to 1990 and migrated to Australia in 1992.

In Bahrain, I won five of their Open tournaments (the Bahrain National Tournament), most of the time in both Singles and Doubles.

When I was about 28 years old, I played my first Davis Cup for Sri Lanka. That time I won all three matches. That was in the early 1980s following a period where Sri Lanka had stopped playing in the Davis Cup for a while.

After that, Arjun (Fernando) and Walloo (Umesh Wallooppillai) started performing really well. Tennis went to another level. The level of interest to the game got heightened.

FACTS

Name: Frank Sebaratnam

Born: Aug. 19, 1954

Junior Titles: Ceylon National Champion in Ur-15 and 18 in 1969 and 1972 respectively





NEW DELHI, January 5: Bitter sibling rivalry has broken out yet again in Tamil Nadu's Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) after its 88-year-old supremo Muthuvel Karunanidhi declared in Chennai on Thursday that his younger son MK Stalin will lead the party after him.

Karunanidhi's angry elder son MK Alagiri retaliated on Friday by saying that the DMK is not a Hindu religious "mutt" where the leader is appointed by the presiding pontiff.

"The DMK is not a mutt," Alagiri quipped when reporters approached him at the Chennai airport to seek his reaction to Karunanidhi's announcement that Stalin will succeed him.

Alagiri recalled that his father himself had said "DMK is not a Sankara Mutt." In the past, he has threatened to throw his hat in the ring in case of a contest for the party president's post.

Addressing party workers yesterday, Karunanidhi gave the clearest ever hint, saying "I will work for the cause of uplift of the society till death. So, for the question who after me, the answer is Stalin who is sitting amongst you and you should not forget it."

Karunanidhi had more than once given enough hints that Stalin is his political heir-apparent, an issue that had led to sibling rivalry with Alagiri, his elder son and Union Minister.

But Karunanidhi's Thursday statement was the clearest hint ever, more so after the 2011 Tamil Nadu legislative assembly electoral debacle, which saw a growing clamour for Stalin taking over the party. The DMK lost to the All India Anna DMK (AIADMK), its bitter rival headed by Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Jayaram Jayalalithaa.

Ever since then Tamil Nadu Chief minister Karunanidhi elevated the 59-year-old Stalin as his deputy chief minister in 2009, Stalin was given prominence in the party, and there have been indications that he will succeed Karunanidhi.

Alagiri had openly resented such hints, saying he would not accept anyone other than his father as leader.

The Madurai strongman, who is two years elder to Stalin, had a couple of months ago made no secret about his unhappiness over selection of party functionaries in his home turf, particularly in the youth wing headed by Stalin.

Alagiri had said his recommendations were neglected by the party leadership, an indirect attack on Stalin.

Karunanidhi's reiteration that Stalin will be his successor has stunned supporters of Madurai-based Alagiri as well as of the old man's favourite daughter, Kanimozhi, who consider themselves worthy of succeeding their father.

Even though the old warhorse has stopped short of anointing Stalin as his heir, the timing of his comment is significant as the crucial meeting of DMK's powerful district secretaries is scheduled on Sunday.

The announcement also comes amid hectic preparations by Kanimozhi's loyalists to celebrate her birthday on Saturday.

Alagiri and Kanimozhi may not be ready to give up the race for succession just yet.

So, Stalin's appointment to the top post may not be that smooth. As Alagiri is in no mood to give up his claim to the throne, yet another fratricidal clash cannot be ruled out in the party.

The general council of the DMK at Coimbatore in 2011 witnessed a chorus to nominate Stalin as the heir, forcing an angry Alagiri to leave the venue in a huff.

Incidentally, Stalin's rise has been slow but steady. He has brought a large number of districts under his control and retained a vice-like grip over the party's youth wing. Now, he is touring the districts to galvanize the party's election machine for the 2014 Lok Sabha polls.

Senior leaders in the DMK have welcomed Karunanidhi's announcement. "The office of party president in DMK is an elected one and it is vested with the general council. Stalin's four- decade-long service to the party and his contribution for its growth would stand him in good stead in the event of a contest," MP and DMK organizing secretary TKS Elangovan said.

For Kanimozhi, the sensational 2G scam remains a millstone around her neck. Though a member of the Rajya Sabha, she was named in the scam and spent many months in prison. With no base in the party, she has to lean on her father's shoulder. According to party sources, she has been making concerted efforts to establish a base among the mercantile Nadar community of her mother Rajathi Ammal in southern Tamil Nadu.

"Though Stalin stands way ahead, the other two contenders might not leave the turf uncontested. Even the octogenarian would not give up his hold so easily, making Stalin as the longest political apprentice in history," columnist Gnani Sankaran said.

Karunanidhi has four sons and two daughter from three wives. Only two of his sons and one of his daughters are active in politics. His son Muthu from his first wife Padmavathi is not into politics. He has three sons (Alagiri, Stalin and Thamizharasu) and a daughter (Selvi) from his second wife Dayalu Ammal, while his third wife Rajathi Ammal has given birth to Kanimozhi. Thamizharasu and Selvi are also not into politics.





The prudence of removing furnace oil subsidies

January 5, 2013, 6:02 pm

The Sri Lankan Government has now accepted that the subsidized prices which the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation has in the past been ordered to give will only lead to bankruptcy. It is therefore heartening that the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation has been allowed to do away with the subsidies on the two brands of furnace oil, namely the 1500 high sulfur and 1500 low sulfur. The brand 1500 high sulfur, now supplied at Rs. 65 to the CEB, increases to Rs. 90 and the brand 1500 low sulfur from Rs. 75 to Rs. 100. However, based on the current market prices of crude oil, the sale prices of both these oils should actually be higher.

The Romans used to say that there is no such thing as a free lunch. Someone has to pay. This is the case with all Subsidies. Subsidizing one sector means that rest of the population has to pay for it, either directly or indirectly and should not be made available unless it is absolutely essential.

Furnace oil is used mainly for power generation processes and for industries as a source of thermal energy.

75.88 per cent of thermal energy is from bio mass

75.88 per cent of the thermal energy used in industries however, comes from biomass. A minority of industries, which have been using petroleum products for thermal energy, have been favored with a large subsidy of nearly 50% on imported furnace oil till early last year. This subsidy cost the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation around Rs 7.5 Billion in year 2011.

The excuse given was that the industries have to be supported to be competitive in the world market. The majority of industries, however, had the foresight to change over to biomass, anticipating oil price increases and that the subsidies will have to be changed at an early date. This action is both environmentally and economically beneficial to the country.

It is encouraging that this subsidy has now largely been removed but the price charged of Rs 92 per liter still carries a substantial subsidy. The price revision will now make the small number of industries which are reliant on subsidies to switch to bio mass and thereby gain substantial savings in energy costs. They will thereby also gain the strategic marketing advantage of achieving a smaller carbon foot print.

The complete removal of this subsidy and turning from oil to biomass will ensure that the 200,000 tons of oil consumed by this sector can be eliminated with an annual saving of US $ 111 Million or 2% of the oil bill at current prices.

Sri Lanka cannot afford to have a future dominated by fossil fuel based power generation, artificially propped up by various forms of subsidy. The first step is to work out the true economic cost of power generation using fossil fuel. It will be most surprising if this is anything below Rs 30.00 per kWh. The statistics published by the CEB provides adequate information to make this calculation very easily, if the true price of the fuel inputs is declared. This will justify a concerted initiative to develop the indigenous and renewable energy sources.

Electricity is supplied well below costs

All industries continue to receive electrical power from the national grid, at prices well below the cost of generation. The current average cost of generation with the reduced contribution by the cheap hydro power is declared as approximately Rs 22.70 per kWh with the subsidies. (The true cost is more likely to be about Rs 30.00 per kWh). The cost to the industries even after the last price revision is only about Rs 14.00. It may be claimed that the industries have to be supported to remain competitive in the world market. But the extra cost is being absorbed by the Sri Lankan economy at large and begs the question how long this can continue.

As in the case of thermal energy, the use of biomass for electricity generation is feasible and considering that the consumer tariff for electricity will go up and the subsidies will be reduced or eliminated, the prudent industries will look at the option of self generation using indigenous energy sources. Some industries are fortunately placed with an option for combined heat and power options which will make them economically viable.

Cost reduction with indigenous resources

It is essential that Sri Lanka finds the means of reducing the cost of generation so that the consumers can enjoy a competitive tariff. This can only be done with the optimal use of indigenous resources. Unfortunately this responsibility has been left to the private sector which is obliged to take all the risks and obtain funds in the market place, whereas, the fossil fuel based power projects done by the government enjoy low cost funds supported by intergovernmental loans and many other benefits. In addition the Renewable Energy ( RE) developers are faced with a plethora of barriers both real and those created by interested parties to stifle progress. If a platform is created whereby the RE development is supported at least to the extent that the fossil fuel based projects are given, there is no doubt that the cost of generation can be reduced drastically. The untapped resources of wind and solar with no fuel cost at all, should be viewed as the major contributors to the energy basket in the long term. But their development has to commence aggressively without delay.

The policy declarations by the government of a target of 20% RE by year 2020 has to be supported by viable action plans, if they are to become a reality.

While the utilization of the abundant resources such as Wind and Solar are hampered by the technical barriers imposed by the CEB, the biomass resource suffers from the perceived lack of the reliability of supplies. The technical barriers hindering Wind and Solar power generation has to be discussed and overcome by an open forum of experts. The reliability of bio mass can be achieved by planting of Gliricidia in mixed plantations with cash crops or together with hard wood and fruit trees on a large scale with initiatives promoted by the Government. In this way, Gliricidia will also be given its due recognition as the fourth plantation crop of the country.

The Bio Energy Association and the Mahatma Gandhi Centre have been over the last few years publicizing the value of Gliricidia in several parts of the country. However, to make a substantial impact, many government agencies have to be mandated and mobilized to achieve at least the target set for the year 2020 by working out a plan to switch from fossil fuel to renewable. Any future fossil fuel based power generation projects or the extension of the current contracts based on oil have to be examined much more critically. In this scenario there can be no room for any subsidies for fossil fuels for either power generation or for industries. It will be more appropriate to apply the cess on all imports of fossil fuels as provided for in the Sustainable Energy Authority Act to support the development of the indigenous resources and take away any barriers to the utilization of same.

Postponing the transition of switching to a RE regimen we will be tantamount to passing on a burden to the future generations to pay for the dubious luxury we enjoy now, the cost of which is hidden by the general subsidies allowed.





Thirimanne proves how wrong Sri Lanka's selections are

January 5, 2013, 5:12 pm

by Rex Clementine

There's no doubt that Lahiru Thirimanne is one of the best talents in the country and should have made steady progress, but with change of selection panels, selections policies too have been pushed out of the door.

When Sri Lanka toured England in 2011, he made a solid hundred in a warm up game in Chelmsford against Essex. With Tillekeratne Dilshan injured, he was picked to make his debut at Rose Bowl and although he didn't produce massive scores, showed good temperament and it looked as if the long search for an opener was over. But failures against England in two home Tests and change of selection committee saw him being branded a middle order batsman and was out of the side.

He was a surprise omission for the Tests in Australia and even after Kumar Sangakkara was injured the preferred choice to replace the star batsman was an all-rounder. It's believed the Sri Lankan team asked for Jeewan Mendis, who was already in Australia playing Big Bash League, but resistance form Colombo meant that Thirimanne was flown in. There was a dramatic turnaround as he landed in Australia on Monday and played the Test on Thursday after just one net session.

Sri Lanka's batsmen have struggled in Australia this summer, but Thirmanne had no issues and he was set to become the ninth Sri Lankan to score a Test hundred in Australia when he threw it all away becoming the first Sri Lankan to be dismissed in 90s here in Australia.

But his positive outlook in tough conditions against a good bowling unit must have given him loads of confidence and he certainly is a player to be banked on looking to the future.

The selectors call, when he was discarded, that he wasn't an opening batsman would have been justified had Sri Lanka possessed any solid opener. But our openers were struggling and the selectors forget one thing, which is, except for Sidath Wettimuny, none of our other openers with exceptional records, weren't openers at all at the start. Roshan Mahanama, Sanath Jayasuriya, Marvan Atapattu and Tillekeratne Dilshan are cases in point.

During his knock of 91, Thirmanne played the short ball well, Sri Lanka's Achilles heel during the disastrous Melbourne Test where they crashed to an innings and 201 run defeat inside three days. Against off-spinner Nathan Lyon he was positive using his feet. In the end it was an ambitious drive against Lyon that brought about his downfall.

Thirmanne has lot of fans. Former batting great Aravinda de Silva, who was the under-19 coach, was one person to push his talent. Another former captain Anura Tennekoon too thought highly of him.

With several senior players nearing the end of their impressive careers, players like Thirimanne should be provided with opportunities to ensure a smooth transition.

In many ways, the Sydney Test was an important one for Sri Lanka. There were three young Sri Lankans with big future; Thirimanne, Dinesh Chandimal and Dimuth Karunaratne were involved in the Test. The tour of Australia will certainly make them better players.





A mini Indian Spring lights up

Mounting opposition to violence against women

January 5, 2013, 6:47 pm

Kumar David

Rape and gang rape are topics about which I know little, thankfully, not having met victims at first or second hand, and not had close encounters, or heard intimate details. I would not have ventured on this piece, despite the political fallout of recent events in India, had I not been assisted by a lady, call her Priya, who works with a knowledgeable organisation. I am grateful for her help in dealing with a topic that I am way too stupid to handle alone. The complicated matter called marital-rape I will not touch at all. There is an all important political dimension to the on going explosion of anger in India which is relevant to Lanka, hence my temerity in intruding into a difficult subject.

Writing from a Lankan perspective, several things spring to mind. Why is it that violence against women, statistically prorated, seems to be much higher in India than here? In 2011 there were 24,000 cases of reported rape there; undoubtedly the unreported number is much higher. I do not have an official number for Lanka, but an NGO estimates it in the hundreds, though Priya says it's higher. Why are many other forms of violence against women widespread in India? Female infanticide and abortion, gender motivated kidnapping and abduction, dowry dispute related murders, etc, are on the increase. These crimes hardly feature in Lanka, though the genetic stock, cultural provenance and purported religious and moral values of the two peoples are similar. Why is it that despite striking economic growth and modernity, the plight of women in India is so appalling? And no, not only in the rural hinterland, but in metropolises too; Delhi is the rape capital of India and world champion!

Differences should not be exaggerated, but to the extent that there is a pro-rata numerical mismatch, the reason I think is that the social, educational and economic status of women in Lanka is better than the plight of their Indian sisters. Priya insists that the fundamental reason for gender related violence is the lowly, chattel-like status accorded to women in the subcontinent; and this abyss may be shallower here than in India. Women are physically weaker and compounding it with poverty, poor education and domestic drudgery, keeps them oppressed.

I had the simplistic male view that rape and molestation were simply the outcome of hard-up b.....s trying to get it off. I got an earful from Priya! This is hardly the cause; it is far more complex; the roots lie in the debasement of women in society and the family, and deeply held attitudes that deny them a human status – mainly in the poorer classes. You are reading these lines on January 6, Epiphany, "the day when Christ manifested himself to the Gentiles". In ordinary usage epiphany is when you see the light and learn something new; the penny certainly dropped for me.

Religion and society

I believe that religion has helped Sri Lanka. Both Hinduism as practised and Sharia Islam are gender oppressive systems, Buddhism is not, or at least not to the same degree. (Priya, who is a Buddhist, disagrees. In her view the status accorded to women in Buddhism is no better. What the Buddha said about women's place is a matter of controversy, and in any case beside the point; it is actually-existing Buddhism, as socially practised, that counts).

India is, politically, a secular state while Lanka, formally, is a semi-Buddhist one. But paradoxically, the hold of religion and associated forms of quackery over the minds of the people is less pervasive here. Not only India's masses, but her city dwellers and middle classes are slaves to superstition and primitive beliefs, while in Lanka a much larger proportion have the good sense to take their religion with a pinch of salt. It is not that folks here are not pious, but there are proportionately more people who do not pander to every silly bit of mumbo-jumbo that comes wafting in with the scent of burning incense. The significance for oppression of, and crimes against women, is this; popular Hinduism and Sharia Islam are such that if people venerate the gibberish, then mixed with this hogwash comes a strong dose of gender subjugation. Being less religious, thankfully, is Lanka's merciful deliverance.

It is true that in the cities, millions of Indian women are highly educated and work in the most modern fields; India's feminine creme de la creme, I dare say, is much better than our best. Its cities are the IT and Call Centre capitals of the world, staffed in the majority by women. Still, domestic oppression, street violence, and sexual assault are appalling in all the big cities. I can think of no explanation for the Eve teasing pathology, a disease of the mind, than the prevalence of odious attitudes of contempt for women. The state and the police are complicit in the cover up of crimes against women: "What jaar, what to do, that's the way it is!" It's the old normal, the centuries old normal.

But go into the villages and it takes on another gruesome dimension. Someone estimated that one Dalit woman is raped in the Indian countryside every 30 minutes. Gender violence is compounded by caste based violence; thank Hinduism again. The villages have not escaped from pre-capitalist modes of production; hence traditional belief systems hold sway with a vengeance and breed a frame of reference and a credence system where rape, often gang rape, of "low caste" women, is a workmanlike reality. Elite people, sociology scholars writing articles in learned journals, using big words, which, the likes of you and I cannot comprehend, say that education is the way to defeat this. Chairman Mao would guffaw, expel a burst of gas, and retort: 'Only the revolution can do it".

But India's revolution will not be Mao's revolution; young people are out in the streets in their tens of thousands, Sonia and Singh are holed up like Mubarak. Is an Indian Spring on the way? India needs its democracy; it also needs the revolution to sweep away the muck of millennia. I think something is happening now, but slowly. My well-known but anonymous neighbour, after half a bottle of wine, calls upon Manmohan Singh to submit to voluntary castration as an act of penitence. I think this won't work; the rage is real and deep and it will take more than Mr Singh's crown jewels to pacify the streets. The streets are right, sleaze out of control, rampant abuse of power, violence against women, crooked police, hated politicians, these are not separate things, these are all of one piece. See, not only in Lanka but in our giant neighbour too they all fit together; they are all of one piece.

There are differences; in India it is chaotic, but no dark hand is moving the pieces in a deliberate design towards dictatorship. With the decline in marketability of the war dividend the Rajapaksas hope a pick-up in the economy will lubricate their authoritarian project. Year 2012 was disappointing with growth falling to 6.2% of GDP; by my reckoning 2013 will be no better. But the government is pulling out all the stops to push growth above 7% of GDP because if the economy stalls it will compound political unpopularity. However, in the absence of a deep commitment to an industrial and agricultural growth strategy, credit and import expansion and lowered interest rates will worsen the foreign trade and fiscal deficits, inflation will rise (it is 9.5% now) and there will be downward pressure on the rupee. This is a straight return to the false-boom/real-bust cycle of 2010-2012.

An Indian Spring

The mini-uprising now sweeping India, especially Delhi, is of huge significance; it is the beginning of a social movement; it has put all the powers of the old order into a funk. The state panicked and shut down the Delhi Metro system; Singh-Sonia went to the airport to receive the coffin because they got loose bowels. The corrupt lady chiefs of Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu are in as much panic as their equally corrupt male counterpart CMs in other states. The BJP played with fire for political mileage, burnt its fingers, and is sulking and ducking.

This is only the opening round, so the storm on the streets will peter out and surface calm will return for a period; I don't expect Connaught Circus to become Tahrir Square in a day. But things have changed. I do not believe that the Indian political establishment is capable of taming corruption and eliminating the abuse of power. If this assessment is correct, a fuse has been lit, mobilisation will start again and it will be fascinating to watch how an Indian Spring lights up already-democratic India.

In Sri Lanka the mobility of the masses is frigid with winter cold; the rage here has only taken a grip of city and educated middle and upper classes. Poor Manmohan and Sonia could not find a racist civil war to fight and win. Patriotic entanglement with Pakistan is best avoided since both nations are nuclear armed. The Rajapaksas will cash in their war dividend for so long as they can hoodwink the Sinhala-Buddhist petty bourgeoisie. But under the ground it is the same dynamite; massively corrupt political leaders and lackeys, brazen abuse of power, and subjugation of minorities (Tamils in the North and potentially Muslims soon). Add to this list, coercion of the judiciary and the intention of creating an autocratic Corporate State, and you have a worse scenario than India on these two vital counts. The time scale may be slower and the epiphany will take on a different manifestation, but can the dynamite be prevented from igniting, since, not in our most fanciful dreams do we expect this regime to reform itself?





Mudliyar Don Philip Attygalle

January 5, 2013, 6:55 pm

The Attygalle dynasty of Madapatha needs no introduction. It is believed that in the wake of the glory of the Mulleriyawa battle, an eminent minister of the king's court- Attygalle, made his abode in the nindagama of Madapatha, Piliyandala. Descendants of this minister, the Attygalle's, made their mark in the indigenous medicine or ayurveda, their special forte being the treatment of indigestions.

Another illustrious link to the Attygalle clan of Madapatha, Mudliyar Don Philip Attygalle's 75th death anniversary falls on January 7. Born to Don James Attygalle – another illustrious physician and his wife, on September 25, 1881, young Philip entered the portals of Prince of Wales College, Moratuwa. Having completed his education, he honed his faculties as an ayurvedic physician to carry forward the family legacy. From the ordinary village folk to foreign dignitaries, his healing touch knew no bounds. True to the spirit of the Attygalle physicians, only a simple bulath hurulla was accepted as a token of goodwill.

Once a critically ill patient, whose days were numbered according to many physicians, was miraculously saved by Mudliyar Philip Attygalle. When all hope was lost, Mudliyar requested the family of the patient to get him a kesel mala or the tender flower of a banana plant. With juice extracted from the kesel mala, he made a concoction with the famous 'Attygalle guliya' and administered it to the patient who eventually recovered to the delight of his family.

Betrothed to Don Sopaya, the coupled had seven children - one daughter and six sons. The late Dharmasena Attygalle, MP for Kesbewa and the first Minister of Indigenous Medicine, was their second son. The Attygalle clan has always being philanthropists, gifting acres of family lands to public causes. Mudliyar Philip Attygalle was no exception. The schools, hospitals, temples, play grounds and libraries standing on their properties still hold testimony to this public spirit.

After the demise of Don James Attygalle, Mudliyar Philip took over the administration of the Madapatha Buddhist Mixed School founded by the family. He appointed eminent scholars such as L.D. Amis and H.D. Pubilis Perera and all expenses of the institution were borne by the Mudliyar.

After the demise of the Mudliyar, the Attygalle family gifted the school to the state in 1960 - the occasion being graced by Sir Nicholas Attygalle, the first Sri Lankan Vice Chancellor of the University of Ceylon and a descendant of the distinguished Ratnapura Attygalle clan who gifted the nation not only family land but also men and women of academia. Madapatha mixed school was re-named Philip Attygalle Vidyalaya as it's known today, to perpetuate the name of this philanthropist.

True to the local idiom- 'rajakama or wedakama' Mudliyar Philip Attygalle was revered by people of all walks of life. His magnanimity knew no bounds, extending it to sasana as well. Indeed he walked among kings never losing the common touch.

We, the descendants of this true son of the soil, remember him with pride and gratitude for gifting us a unique legacy and passing on that unmistakable humanity.





1.8 million migrant workers contribute 8% to Sri Lanka's economy

Despite exploitation and abuse

January 5, 2013, 6:09 pm

By Steve A. Morrell

Around 1.8 million Sri Lankans working abroad contribute more than 8% to the GDP annually. Their working conditions usually shrouded in abuse and exploitation continue to plague their labour sites, arguably hinged to 'captivity', says Donglin Li, Country Director, International Labour Organization (ILO), Office, Sri Lanka and the Maldives.

He was speaking at the launch of guidelines for Labour Sections of Sri Lanka in Diplomatic Missions in Labour Receiving Countries',

Li said annually more than 214 million people are on the move — 100 million are estimated to be economic migrants sent back to their home countries, with costs incurred in excess of $ 240 Billion each year.

Scant respect for human rights and substandard working conditions at most foreign domestic locations prompted the ILO to launch this grievance mechanism module to address the problem and minimize incidences of abuse and victimization.

Co-Author, Dr. Sepali Kottegoda reviewing the report said the national Labour Migration Policy clearly emphasizes the State's role in preventing abusive practices and promoting decent work.

The Overseas Contract Workers (OCWs), now about 1.6 million, include an estimated exodus of about 250,000 persons annually. The number of dependents on these workers are currently about 1/3 of the country's population. Their remittances, an important cog in the economic structure of the country, their working conditions and welfare could not be overemphasized for inclusion for official attention. Broadly the report included assessment of issues and gender related concerns, grievance handling, recommendations for improvement in the current system, and also identification of best practices.

Trade Unions, particularly plantation unions such as the CWC was taken as an example and did not feature well in the report. Contents did not have many salutary aspects that projected plantation unions being concerned about those who left for foreign employment. More importantly, that these workers are invariably duped by bogus sub-agents who extract money and leave with no trace. Usually Colombo Agents feign ignorance that they had any agents in plantation areas.

These workers also submit to paying for false documents. The report said the CWC has been involved in the issue of the migration of estate sector women workers for many decades.

Level of fraud and cheating carried out by sub agents has now reached alarming proportions and cannot be ignored. However, the report further said the CWC has now appointed persons to address these issues. They receive about 1,000 complaints each year which they act on as far as possible.

Generally complaints included non-payment of wages, sickness, harassment, death or over stay. For instance in 2008, complaints of harassment numbered 944.

Dr. Kottegoda said that the complaint handling mechanisms would address these problems, but she also cautioned there was much work to be done.





With the country witnessing a surge in road accidents, Sri Lanka Insurance (SLI) last week stepped in with a benevolent insurance scheme for drivers, which the company's Managing Director Mohan de Alwis assured, offers "relief and protection" at a nominal premium.

Partnering with the Department of Motor Traffic, SLI – the market leader in Sri Lanka's General Insurance segment – described the 'Drivers' Protect Insurance Cover' "apt and timely at a time road mishaps are ballooning".

"We consider it our national duty to unveil this insurance cover to ensure there is protection and relief forthcoming to drivers when the unexpected happens", De Alwis underscored at the launch at the Department of Motor Traffic in Colombo.

"This initiative will convey an important message to drivers as protection is of paramount importance", says S. H. Harischandra, Commissioner General of Department of Motor Traffic.

Under this scheme, a Rs. 250,000/- personal accident cover will be offered to light vehicle drivers for a premium of Rs. 500/- for eight years and a Rs. 250,000 cover for those driving heavy vehicle for a premium of Rs. 250/- for four years.

In the event of a death or total permanent disability, the sum insured will be paid to the beneficiary. In addition, there are many more features that benefit vehicle drivers. The cover is valid only for driving license holders in the age group 18 – 70.

Responding to a question, De Alwis said that it is not mandatory under the law to obtain this cover. "It is optional – drivers can decide whether they need a protective cover from the biggest and strongest insurer in Sri Lanka".

Around 3,000 road accidents are reported per annum, the MD explained. "We know how many claims we have to settle daily".

"If there is no insurance cover, it is a big issue as it means there is no protection and relief at a time of a calamity", he noted. "That's why for SLI, this is considered a national duty".

He said the insurance cover can be obtained from SLI. "The Department of Motor Traffic will facilitate it".

"We have now issued a driving license with security marks and a chip", Harischandra said. "This became a reality after the process was computerized in 1997"

SLI has maintained a steady market leadership in General Insurance and stands as the biggest and strongest insurer in the country with the largest asset base in the industry amounting to Rs. 109 Billion.

The company also has the biggest Life Insurance Fund of Rs. 57 Billion and a strong capitalization of Rs 6 Billion.





"One Billion Tourists Become One Billion Opportunities"

– by Lakshman Ratnapala

January 5, 2013, 6:01 pm

Despite the current global economic uncertainty, more than one billion tourists traveled the world last year, 2012, marking a new record for international tourism.

The figure cements tourism's position as one of the world's largest economic sectors, accounting for 9% of global GDP, one in every 12 jobs, 30% of the world's service exports, and up to 8% of the total exports of the world's Least Developed Countries (LDCs).

Recalling the positive impact even the smallest action can have if multiplied by one billion, the World Tourism Organization (WTO) had launched the One Billion Tourists: One Billion Opportunities campaign to celebrate the milestone, showing tourists that respecting local culture, preserving heritage or buying local goods when traveling can make a big difference. The public were asked to vote for the Travel Tip that would have the greatest benefit for the people and places they visit and to pledge to follow that tip when traveling.

The winning tip was Buy Local, encouraging tourists to buy food and souvenirs locally, or hire local guides, to ensure their spending translates into jobs and income for host communities. A close second, Respect Local Culture, calls on tourists to learn more about their destination's traditions, or some words in the local language before leaving home.

As it was impossible to know exactly where the one-billionth tourist arrived, many countries celebrated the occasion by welcoming tourists arriving on December 13th. WTO celebrated in Madrid, Spain—home to its headquarters—by welcoming the symbolic one-billionth tourist in the Museo del Prado, Madrid's most visited tourism attraction.

The writer who is Emeritus President and CEO of the Pacific Area Travel Association (PATA), served many years ago as the Tourist Board's representative in New York in the seventies. He has worked in several Lankan newspapers and also served the Information Department as a press officer in the 1965-70 period.









Colonials buy Ceylinco car firm through SC for Rs. 142 million

Purchase to be funded through rights issue cashBattaramulla workshop to be made state-of-the-art

January 5, 2013, 5:58 pm

Colonial Motors PLC has through its wholly owned subsidiary, Colonial Motors (Ceylon) Limited, has invested Rs.142 million purchasing Ceylinco Hire Drive through the Supreme Court and the parent company is investing a sum of Rs.135 million against this purchase in the form of equity.

This information has been communicated to shareholders of listed Colonial Motors PLC, now engaged in a zero cost capital raising exercise through a rights issue.

Colonial Motors PLC, a member of the Colombo Fort Lands/E.B. Creasy Group, is floating the rights issue of 1.52 million ordinary shares comprised at Rs.130 per share to holders of 9.12 million ordinary shares of the company at the end of trading on December 14, 2012.

The rights issue is in the proportion of one new ordinary share for every six existing shares and the board has resolved that in its opinion the Rs.130 price per share "is fair and reasonable to the company and all its shareholders."

Colonial Motors was incorporated over a century ago and was listed on the CSE on January 1970. The company's principle activity is the sale of motor vehicles and spare parts and providing vehicle maintenance.

Colonials are also owners of a very valuable portfolio of equities listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange.

The subsidiary is an authorized distributor for Mazda vehicles in Sri Lanka and Maldives and part of the rights issue cash is to be utilized in modernizing the Battaramulla workshop purchased from Ceylinco Hire Drive.

The balance Rs.62.69 million will be used as working capital requirement of the company. Shareholders have been told that it is intended to refurbish the workshop and making it an up to date fully equipped, state-of-the-art workshop within a year.

Shareholders have been further told that the company will be utilizing the working capital raised as and when required and these funds are expected to be exhausted within a year.

There is no underwriting agreement in relation to the rights issue and in the event that the issue is under-subscribed, whatever proceeds raised will be utilized with alternate methods of funding such as bank facilities being sought if the need arises.

The directors have said that they have noted considerable appreciation of the price of the company's ordinary shares and in order to facilitate greater liquidity of the shares have decided on a sub division after the listing of shares arising from the rights issue.

This would be on the basis of subdividing every seven existing shares into 10 and the sub division, subject to the rights issue be fully subscribed will result in 10.65 million ordinary shares being increased to 15.21 million without affecting any increase in the company's stated capital.









AC Milan friendly suspended after racist chants

BUSTO ARSIZIO, Italy (AP) — A friendly match between AC Milan and lower division club Pro Patria was abandoned Thursday after racist chants directed at Milan's black players, the latest incident of racial abuse that continues to blight the sport.

After repeated chants directed his way, Ghana midfielder Kevin-Prince Boateng picked up the ball and kicked it at a section of the crowd in the 26th minute of the first half.

Boateng then took off his shirt and walked off the pitch with his Milan teammates. Urby Emanuelson, Sulley Muntari and M'Baye Niang were also targeted by the chants.

"Walking off was the right choice when faced with something like this," Milan coach Massimiliano Allegri said. "We need to stop these uncivil gestures. Italy needs to improve and become better educated and more intelligent."

"Let's learn from this experience," Allegri added.

The match, which was scoreless at the time, was not resumed. The game was played in Busto Arsizio, a town located north of Milan. Pro Patria plays in Italy's fourth-tier division.

Milan said on its website that the insults came from a small group of Pro Patria fans, adding that the rest of the supporters disassociated themselves from the chants.

Milan, returning from its holiday break, is preparing to play Siena on Sunday.





Radwanska wins Auckland singles title

January 5, 2013, 7:15 pm

AUCKLAND, New Zealand (AP) — World No. 4 Agnieszka Radwanska of Poland moved her Australian Open preparation into high gear when she beat Belgium's Yanina Wickmayer 6-4, 6-4 to win the ASB Classic, her 11th career title.

Playing her first tournament since October, Radwanska dropped only one set in five matches to claim the Auckland singles crown at her first attempt. She showed no signs of rustiness in her first tournament since October and said she felt confident as she headed towards the first Grand Slam of the season.

"I couldn't imagine a better start to the year," Radwanska said. "It's the perfect preparation for the Australian Open."

Wickmayer, who was hoping to add her second title in her third finals appearance in Auckland, fought hard and saved five match points before bowing to Radwanska for the third time in as many meetings.

Radwanska's greatest weapon again was her consistency. She created 12 breakpoint chances and converted two in each set to win the match in 96 minutes.

Wickmayer fought tenaciously but she was compelled to be aggressive by Radwanska's steady game and she succumbed to unforced errors, 75 to 28.

The difference in the players' styles was measured by the fact Wickmayer hit 16 forehand winners to two in the second set, along with 12 backhand winners to two but still could not win.

Radwanska played most of the match from well beyond the baseline and kept the ball in play, forcing Wickmayer to take the initiative and look for passing shots. In windy conditions, that led to the errors that ultimately cost Wickmayer the match.

"I'm a little disappointed," Wickmayer said. "But I fought my heart out and I left my heart and soul on the court.

"I couldn't have done any more than I did."

Radwanska had the advantage for the most of the match. She broke Wickmayer's serve in the third game of the fourth set but dropped her own in the eight game for 4-4. The top seed then immediately broke back and served out the first set in 45 minutes.

Wickmayer gained an early break in the second game of the second set but also dropped serve in her next game and again in the seventh game to trail 4-3. The Belgian saved four break points in the ninth game and then forced Radwanska to battle through the longest game of the match, holding three break points and saving one match point before succumbing.









Samaraweera turns villain as Sydney Test slips away

January 5, 2013, 7:07 pm

Middle-order batsman Thilan Samaraweera throughout the tour of Australia has been dismissed playing uncharacteristic shots and yesterday was no different. Here facing his third delivery he steps outside to clear Nathan Lyon, but fails to clear mid-on. With several young players coming up with impressive performances, this could have been his last shot in Test Match cricket. (AP)

Rex Clementinereporting from Sydney

The national cricket team again disappointed millions of fans back at home who wake up early in the morning at 4 a.m. to watch the current Test series against Australia with yet another thoughtless, pathetic and gutless display and face a 3-0 whitewash here in Sydney today that is only if Dinesh Chandimal does not play a blinder.

The tourists finished the day on 225 for seven and lead by only 87 runs and have three wickets in hand, but the situation could have been totally different had some of the experienced batsmen shown some patience.

When play got underway yesterday, Sri Lanka were still hopeful that they would be able to win their first ever Test Match in this country, but the bowling lacked character and the middle-order batting any purpose.

The conditions for batting were homemade with the SCG track looking like SSC with no assistance whatsoever for bowlers and the duo of captain Mahela Jayawardene and Dimuth Karunaratne had given Sri Lanka a position from where to consolidate for the rest, but the post tea session proved to be disastrous as Sri Lanka lost six wickets for 95 runs, four of them cheaply for only 20.

Things were nicely set for the Sri Lankans when they went for tea on 130 for one with Karunaratne solid in defence but putting the loose balls away. Jayawardene at the other end was finding the gaps at will and with the bowlers tiring, the tourists were on top. Two more sessions of consolidation would have given Sri Lanka total control and Rangana Herath would have done the trick with a target of around 200.

Dimuth Karunaratne cuts a ball against Australia on the third day of the cricket Test in Sydney on Saturday, Jan. 5. (AP Photo/Rick Rycroft)

Karunaratne displayed his class and reached his second half-century and the highest score on tour with a six off Nathan Lyon. He was caught behind for 85 off the bowling of Jackson Bird. He hit ten fours and one six. Australia got a grip of the game after that dismissal.

Lahiru Thirimanne had successfully challenged a decision after being given leg before wicket, but failed to click on as he hooked Mitchell Johnson straight to Bird at fine-leg.

But the biggest culprit was Thilan Samaraweera. Sri Lanka's darling last year by this time, with back-to-back hundreds in South Africa, has become the villain in Australia a year later throwing away his wicket on three occasions. The 36-year-old hasn't made a half-century so far and has fallen for some uncharacteristic dismissals in the tour and yesterday came down the track to the third ball he faced attempting to go over the top, but failed to clear Michael Hussey at mid-on. With some of the younger players starting to do well, the selectors couldn't be faulted if his career comes to an end with this Test Match.

To add insult to injury, Mathews was run out a few overs later after he had smashed four boundaries off Lyon. The captain in waiting pushed one to mid-wicket and attempted a single, but was sent back and his diving effort wasn't sufficient.

Having restricted Australia to 301 for six, Sri Lanka could have done better had they knocked off the last four Australian wickets cheaply. But wicketkeeper Matthew Wade was a thorn in the Sri Lankan flesh adding 125 runs with the tail. The seventh wicket partnership between him and Peter Siddle was worth 77 runs.

The unbroken stand for the last wicket between Wade and Bird was worth 39 runs and gave the wicketkeeper his second Test hundred and the first in Australia.





Seylan Bank Donates a Computer

January 5, 2013, 6:10 pm

Seylan Bank PLC, partnering with IBM corporation, presented a computer together with other components inclusive of an educational pack of which is comparable with local syllabus of Grade 1 to 7, to Gurugoda Kanishta Vidyalaya, in Horana recently. Seylan Bank succeeds in the persistent visionary action of "Sustainable Banking for Equitable Development" resolving the chant of under privileged children, through fostering of education which plays a central role therein.









Social Transformation, Gender Inequality and Violence against Women in Contemporary Sri Lanka

The Distinguished Keynote Oration of the Centre for Gender Studies (CGSUK), University of Kelaniya, delivered by Professor Emeritus Savitri Goonesekere.

January 5, 2013, 6:52 pm

Part I

We live today in a new Sri Lankan environment where the universality of some abiding values and even some issues of global concern are being challenged as unpatriotic, and contrary to our own national consciousness or "chinthanaya." A country that has emerged from thirty years of bloodshed and armed conflict through the endeavours of its own elected leaders and established institutions, including the armed forces, will naturally experience a strong sense of national pride. However it is also important to avoid the dangers of insularity. We must recognise that our desire to find home grown solutions with sensitivity to our own cultures and experiences should not cut us off from benefiting from the inspiration of outside ideas and experiences that have contributed to the wellbeing of our nation and others throughout the world.

Sri Lanka's history from antiquity to contemporary times demonstrates the powerful impact of a diversity of social economic and political forces and ideologies, most of which have come from across the borders of our island nation. Even as we celebrate Centre for Gender Studies (CGSUK) at the University of Kelaniya, the first ever within the university system, we need to constantly remind ourselves that the rationale and purpose of gender studies is to work towards the now universally accepted goal of achieving equality between women and men and eliminating gender based discrimination. This is important in an environment where this objective is sometimes described as an alien discourse, foisted upon the country by an elite of Western educated women and men. Global experience indicates that there can be no sustainable economic growth and development, when women who invariably constitute, as in Sri Lanka, more than 50% of the population, do not have the same life chances and opportunities to contribute to the wellbeing of their nation. This is why the commitment to eliminate discrimination and inequality, based only on the biological differences between men and women, has become the foundation of the Basic Law of many countries – their national Constitutions, international human rights instruments, and policy documents. Advancing the concept of gender equality as developed in international law should, I think, provide both the vision and the framework of a Centre for Gender Studies at the University of Kelaniya. This concept is linked to Article 12 of our own Constitution, which recognises the norm of gender equality as a binding commitment of our governments, reinforcing international treaties that Sri Lanka has ratified, and most recently, Goal 3 of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). A timeframe has now been set for achieving some dimensions of this standard, and monitoring our achievements on including women as equal partners with men in development.

Why Prioritise Gender Equality?

UN Women, the agency recently created to lead the now accepted global agenda on achieving equality for women, has brought together research and information on the reality of gender based discrimination. Responding to our contemporary concern that all realities should be explained in numbers, and economic performance, a World Bank publication cites UN Women as confirming that "women perform 66% of the world's work, produce 50% of the food, earn 10% of the income and own 1% of the property." It has also been clearly demonstrated that countries that have reached greater parity in men and women's equal access to opportunities and life chances have progressed further on the path to economic development. There is adequate information from research on gender issues already published, including a recent Human Development Report of the Institute of Policy Studies (2012), that Sri Lanka's progress does not match its constitutional commitments on gender equality, or its obligations under international law, as a party to international treaties.

If these are the realities, it is important that we understand the constraints and the barriers that must be overcome if we are to address and eliminate gender inequality in our society. I believe that the greatest challenge in this regard in contemporary Sri Lanka is the gradual erosion of the value system on gender equality integrated into both our Constitution and International law. I would like in this lecture therefore to reflect on gender relations in our country from a historical perspective, with a view to placing before you some thoughts on the transformations that have occurred over time, and the critical need to nurture the positive trends and undermine those that can dilute even the progress we have achieved.

The late Prime Minister S W R D Bandaranaike in his speech at the opening of Sri Lanka's first parliament, remarked, "no people can live on memories alone; it is equally true that history often provides a source of both strength and inspiration to guide them in the future. It is only against the background of the past that the present and the future can be viewed in their correct perspective." These are words of wisdom that we in the education system and disciplines of Humanities, Social Sciences and Law in the country have failed to appreciate, by being complicit in denying generations of students, knowledge of the history of their country, the region, and the world. A historical perspective on the transformations that have taken place in gender relations in this country can help us, I think to dispute some myths, and develop insights on how to address the contemporary challenges to achieving gender justice and equality. I interpret the phrase "social transformation" in my lecture in the broadest sense, including the interface between social changes and changes in the political and economic environment that inevitably impact on gender relations.

The study of social transformation and its impact on relations between men and women, and values and perceptions on gender equality becomes especially complex in plural societies with diverse cultures and religions. Those who argue that the concept of gender equality is an alien Western concept and that gender relations in Sri Lanka must be analysed within the framework of our own cultural sensitivities and values, assume a homogenous value base of attitudes, practices, and perceptions, that have not been subject to change or transformation over the centuries of our history. It also fails to recognise the impact of economic and political change in the transformation of attitudes and beliefs in our plural society of diverse communities. It is interesting in this context to reflect on the different approaches to gender equality in our personal laws and some of our religious values, and the manner in which they too have been transformed over time in each community. Developments in our personal laws and cultural practices offer insights which show that culture is never static and is the product of diverse influences. The awareness that we can transform values and attitudes embedded in diverse cultures can help to develop a new culture of respect for gender equality. We need advocacy based on analysis and understanding of social changes to challenge ideologies that justify inequality and discrimination against women in the name of culture, and promote instead the concept of gender equality and justice.

I would like to highlight some important facts that have emerged in my own research on our plural personal laws, reflecting also on the changes that we see in the Sinhala Buddhist tradition of the community to which I belong, by ethnicity and religion.

The Transformation and Diversity in Sri Lankan Cultural Values

Those of us who are Sinhala Buddhists are familiar with those texts that indicate this religion's approach to relations between men and women. When the Buddha in his discourses challenged the inequality of caste in the Vasala Sutta, it was on the argument that it was human conduct, one's deeds and spiritual growth rather than birth and origin that determined whether a person was a Brahmin (of a high caste) or a low outcaste. This concept of aristocracy and nobility by deed as opposed to birth and origin, and the capacity of all to aspire to spiritual freedom, not only undermined the discrimination based on caste, but had a profound impact on the approach to relations between men and women. It was therefore logical that those early women activists of antiquity led by the Buddha's own foster mother should succeed in their demand to be ordained as Buddhist nuns. Similarly, the songs of the Buddhist nuns or the 'Theri Gatha' of antiquity celebrate the right of women to achieve spiritual freedom, emancipating themselves from abusive husbands or the drudgery of domestic chores. The Buddhist scriptures record the achievements of many women, but Kundelekesi stands out as a woman whose religious discourses and brilliance in debate and discussion on the Dhamma, excelled those of her contemporaries.

This egalitarianism in the approach to relations between men and women is reflected in the norms and customary laws of many Buddhist countries, including Sri Lanka, Myanmar and Cambodia. These were all paddy-growing countries in which men and women had different roles, but shared agricultural tasks. This partnership in agricultural activities in Sri Lanka including chena cultivation is highlighted in the work of contemporary feminist scholars on land issues, like Bina Aggarwal. Customary laws therefore recognised the equal and separate rights of women to property. Kandyan Sinhala law is often highlighted as a discriminatory law reflecting gender bias, because a daughter married in diga loses her inheritance rights. And yet, this loss of rights was linked in the pre-colonial era to economic production, rather than gender bias. A son who became a monk or a daughter who married in diga lost inheritance rights because they were no longer part of the unit of economic production. They reacquired these rights when they returned to the family home, because of divorce or return to lay life. The egalitarianism in the Kandyan law on the right to divorce because of a breakdown in the marital relationship reflected the same egalitarian approach to women, and represented a recognition of their individual identity and personality. Many of the British colonial writers including Robert Knox remark on the obvious freedom and ease of relations between men and women in Kandyan Sinhala society, and the fact that they mingled freely in public places as well as within the family. However this egalitarian tradition has also been transformed over time, due to other influences, sometimes derived from ideologies of male preference in Hinduism, and a Victorian British colonial legal and social tradition.

The influence of Hinduism and the laws of Manu are clearly seen in the Buddhist Customary law of Myanmar. In the laws of Manu, "a woman is under the power of her father in her girlhood, the husband during marriage and her son in widowhood; she is therefore never free." However those values were not incorporated in Sri Lanka's Kandyan Sinhala law. Besides Buddhism did not recognise the concept of pollution, nor exclude women from religious worship during menstruation. Yet in later decades, Sinhala Buddhist girls and women were sheltered and discouraged from participating in religious ceremonies in devales during menstruation. Girls are secluded during puberty rituals. Today there is a growing practice of excluding women from worship at the upper levels surrounding a Bo tree. These practices linked to pollution do not conform to the religious values of Buddhism, but are now considered part of Buddhist religious belief culture and tradition. The Sinhala Buddhist marriage ceremony was a simple one, and non ritualistic. It is full of rituals today, sometimes even excluding the bride's mother if she is a widow. Puritanical attitudes to dress and the need to impose a dress code for women in public places were suggested some time ago by an official cultural affairs agency. Women worshippers at the Dalada Maligawa, clad in saree and a sleeveless blouse, are now told brusquely to "cover up," and follow our time honoured Buddhist traditions. Yet the renowned artist Solius Mendis' famous painting from the Kelaniya temple has a figure of Hemamala carrying the Buddha's precious relics in her hair, tied in a topknot. Hemamala's attire in that famous picture, commonly seen on our beaches and in our hotels today, was not perceived as against our traditional Bhuddhist values. When feminists refer to the entrenched patriarchy in Sinhala Buddhist culture, they often refer to the "Bamunu Matha' as represented in the admonition of a Sinhala father to his beloved daughter – "Never leave your home without permission from your husband, or a covering for the upper part of your body." We tend to miss the fact that the admonition comes from the "Piya Bamuna" or the Brahmin father.

The transformation of legal values and their impact particularly in the area of family relationships and religious organisation is also seen in an analysis of later trends in the Kandyan Sinhala law, and Buddhist ecclesiastical law and practice. Persons who belong to the Kandyan community, who value their Kandyan cultural identity, invariably contract marriages under the Kandyan personal law. This system gives spouses the right to divorce by mutual consent or for irretrievable break down of the marriage evidenced by living apart. However marital property rights reflect gender inequality and discrimination against women. Neither the mother of the bride nor the bride realise that in 1938, colonial policy makers, with the endorsement of local male elites, disenfranchised women of their property rights under traditional Kandyan Sinhala law. These policy makers and elites gave priority to the need for clarity of title to land, which had become a highly marketable asset in the colonial plantation economy. It was inconvenient to recognise a concept that married women could reacquire inheritance rights in ancestral lands, on the dissolution of a marriage. And so the legislation of 1938 transformed the traditional egalitarian principles, and prevented married women acquiring property rights in their paternal ancestral property. A woman married under Kandyan law whose husband does not gift or will property to her today, acquires almost no rights even in a matrimonial home, if it is part of his ancestral property. A daughter who marries in diga, loses for all time any right to paternal property, even if she lives with her parents and cares for them, fulfilling the Buddhist values of the Karaneeya Metha Sutha on care and concern for her elderly parents. Indeed, an unmarried daughter who can inherit immovable property from her father is required to return this property on marriage, if her male siblings are willing to pay the market price of the property to her within one year of her marriage. These patriarchal norms of a colonial era have not been reviewed and changed over 60 years after independence, but are often justified as the cultural and even Buddhist heritage of the Kandyans. In an even more disturbing trend, relatives of Kandyan men who marry Non-Kandyans under the completely different General law of the land, which gives equal rights to widows and daughters, are now claiming that since he was governed by his personal Kandyan law, his property should devolve under Kandyan law that gives preference to male siblings. This has created a situation where both Non-Kandyan and Kandyan women who marry Kandyans experience the same discrimination.

Patriarchal values have also been entrenched in the un-amended Colonial Buddhist Ecclesiastical Law. Despite the long tradition of equality for women in Buddhism, the tradition of Sanghamitta, the Theris, Kundelekesi and Hemamala, women government officials are debarred from even voting at an election for the Diyawadana Nilame, the male lay custodian of the Temple of the Tooth. We saw the First Lady recently assist in the ritual of placing the relic casket on the perehera elephant at the Navam Perahera, surrounded by many important people. No one said that this was against our Buddhist culture, and tradition. Yet Buddhist culture tradition and ritual are used to justify the discrimination in the Buddhist Ecclesiastical Ordinance that was first introduced by the British colonial political regime. The male hierarchy of the Buddhist clergy have also refused to recognise the women Bhikkhunis who have received ordination according to the Buddhist tradition, outside the country. Since their status is not recognised, they are denied a right to change their national identity cards from lay people to ordained monks – a privilege reserved for males who join the order. Recently some members of Buddhist clergy have disrupted medical clinics engaged in the performance of legal sterilisation operations. The Angulimala Sutta, the Buddhist text emphasises the importance of safe pregnancy for women so that the wellbeing of both mother and child is assured.

These same divergences in sources and contradictory values systems can be seen in Muslim Personal Law. The original Code of Muslim Law was brought into the island in the period of colonial rule as a collection of Muslim customs from East Asia, and accepted by a few leaders of the community as conforming to the customs of local Muslim communities. The Tsunami land settlement experience has clarified that the Muslim communities of the Eastern Province in fact follow a legal regime that recognises the separate property rights of women. Yet this system described as "Mukkuvar Law" is considered obsolete in the legal system of Sri Lanka, and has no connection to the original Muslim Code. Besides the colonial Muslim Law Code itself has been replaced. Today principles of Islamic law of the particular sect a Muslim belongs to apply in some specific areas like marriage inheritance and divorce. Nevertheless common norms of family law derived from the General Law apply even to Muslims, in regard to adoption of children and maintenance of Non-Marital children. Marital rape of a child below the age of 12 years is an offence in the Penal Code, even within the concept that Muslim personal law does not recognise a minimum age of marriage.

The codified Muslim law itself recognises non-Muslim law concepts of dowry such as a marital gift of cash to the bridegroom called "Kaikuli," (or bribe in Tamil). Another type of dowry gift called "Stridhanam" as the term suggests, represents a local custom not recognised in Islamic law. These customs on dowry demonstrate the influence of Tamil customs on Muslim communities. The concept of "Kaikuli" is therefore accommodated in the current legislation on Muslim law, together with the Islamic law concepts on a woman's marital property or "mahr". There is some evidence that the un Islamic practice of "Kaikuli" and of "Stridhanam" as dowry are more important in Muslim communities today than "mahr", which is even given as a token payment.

The Islamic law of inheritance, which prefers males, applies to property rights. Yet if State land is allocated to Muslims, under State land legislation it is those principles rather than Islamic law that will determine property rights. Despite the fact that the same criminal law applies to Sri Lanka Muslims, adultery is not a crime, and men have a legal responsibility to support non-marital children, there have been recent disturbing incidents where Muslim women who have relationships with Non-Muslim men have been beaten inside mosques or in public places on the basis of decisions taken by elders of the community.

This represents a new and dangerous method of informal dispute settlement, which is legitimised on the basis of community values that are not accepted in the legal system of the country.

The Tesawalamai law applies to Tamils of the Northern Province. This system has special principles which apply to sale and use of land in the Northern provinces, but also determine ownership and distribution of marital property, and property of family members, on death. As in the case of other communities, State land legislation containing different principles apply when State land is allocated to persons governed by Tesawalamai. However the customary principles of Tesawalamai law apply to private property. These principles have been significantly modified, because of the superimposition of statutory principles and jurisprudence in the Courts influenced by Roman Dutch law. Significant changes in the content of the law have occurred due to these divergent legal and political influences as well as more recent social practices such as giving donations to a man on marriage. The customary practice of giving separate dowry property to a woman, as her own separate property or "chidenam" has diminished in significance. These transformations in the original principles have invariably undermined and had a negative impact on the rights of women in the Tesawalamai as recorded in the original code of the Dutch colonial period.

A comment made on patriarchal influences in the Mukkuvar law which originally recognised a strong concept of women's property rights, refers to the manner in which males with their superior power and influence eroded the property rights of women. This could be an apt description of the patriarchal influences that have been justified by reference to culture, and undermined the rights of women under the original Tesawalamai law. The complexities of current Tesawalamai law and Mukkuvar also pose special challenges to the task of land distribution and restitution in the post armed conflict situation in the Northern and Eastern Provinces. It is a matter of regret that the recent circular on land distribution in these areas, (which appear to have been withdrawn), nevertheless adopted a gender-neutral approach. The circular failed to address and accommodate the rights of women, particularly widows in these areas to obtain an important economic asset like land, through proactive interventions by the State.

The discrimination faced by war widows including female heads of household in the North and the East and other parts of the country have been well documented in research findings from the 1980s, and in the recent LLRC Report. Yet widows were considered responsible heads of household and managers of family property, with child care responsibilities, in both Kandyan Sinhala law and Tesawalamai. Their rights came to be expressed in the colonial legal regime as a life interest in the husband's property – a surviving spouses limited claim in respect of an important asset. Subsequent developments in legislation and public policy and jurisprudence have restricted the rights of widows. Though the General Law recognises the survivor rights of a widow in the family, the property rights of a widow governed by Kandyan law and Tesawalamai have been eroded over time. There are no legal restraints on a woman's capacity to be considered a head of household. Our census and statistics and general law on family support and maintenance recognise that men and women share responsibilities as equal partners. And yet, public administration continues to focus on a "male breadwinner" and "head of household," particularly in relation to social security benefits such as pensions and State land distribution. Widows, who were recognised as important members of the family, and community, were not perceived in our personal laws as "unlucky" people, in some way responsible for the loss they have suffered.

The history of transformation of our personal laws, as well as the Sinhala Buddhist, Tesawalamai and Muslim customs and practices outlined, indicate the fallacy of using a homogenous and pristine Sri Lankan cultural argument to justify gender based discrimination. The conflicting values in the sources of law and the contradictions in the legal norms themselves undermine arguments that there is a homogenous cultural Sinhala Buddhist value system in the country.

The sensitivity of successive governments to identity politics has promoted a lack of political will in changing personal laws and family policies that prevent men and women realising the Constitutional promise of gender equality. Sri Lanka ratified the Women's Convention (CEDAW) in 1981 and has submitted several progress reports to the CEDAW Committee in the last 30 years. Resistance to eliminating discrimination in personal law as well in some other areas of family law has been justified consistently by the government delegations presenting our report, by reference to culture, ignoring the reality of the transformations that have occurred over time. It is also ironical that identity politics has not prevented these same governments introducing laws and policies that impact negatively on other rights of minority communities.





Report: Armstrong weighs doping admission

January 5, 2013, 7:14 pm

AUSTIN, Texas (AP) — The New York Times reported Friday that Lance Armstrong, who has strongly denied the doping charges that led to him being stripped of his seven Tour de France titles, has told associates he is considering admitting to the use of performance-enhancing drugs.

The report cited anonymous sources and said Armstrong was considering a confession to help restore his athletic career in triathlons and running events at age 41. Armstrong was been banned for life from cycling and cannot compete in athletic events sanctioned by the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency and the World Anti-Doping Agency.

Yet Armstrong attorney Tim Herman denied that Armstrong has reached out to USADA chief executive Travis Tygart and David Howman, director general of the World Anti-Doping Agency.

Herman told The Associated Press he had no knowledge of Armstrong considering a confession and said: "When, and if, Lance has something to say, there won't be any secret about it."

Armstrong, who recovered from testicular cancer that had spread to his lungs and brain, won the Tour de France from 1999-2005. Although he has vehemently denied doping, Armstrong's athletic career crumbled under the weight of a report by USADA detailing allegations of drug use by Armstrong and his teammates on his U.S. Postal Service teams.

The report caused Armstrong to lose most of his personal corporate sponsors and he recently stepped down from the board of Livestrong, the cancer-fighting charity he founded in 1997.

Armstrong is facing other legal hurdles.

The U.S. Department of Justice is considering whether to join a federal whistle-blower lawsuit filed by former Armstrong teammate Floyd Landis. A Dallas-based promotions company has also said it wants to recover several million dollars paid to Armstrong in bonuses for winning the Tour de France. The British newspaper The Sunday Times has sued Armstrong to recover $500,000 paid to him to settle a libel lawsuit.





Roadmap to Destruction

January 5, 2013, 6:19 pm

by Maheen Senanayake

Today we look at a case study titled Iceland. There is a movie that is 'a must watch' for anyone who intends to dabble in economics or finance. It is the quintessential summary of what can happen when greed, nepotism and ignorance takes over the human race.

The Governor of the Central Bank recently unveiled its roadmap for 2013. Deregulation it seems is the order of the day. Financial traders of every kind are elated. Some reports indicate how these traders, banks and other financial middle men have been unable to contain their joy.

According to some of these reports, both the foreign exchange and debt market yesterday welcomed the Central Bank's 'Road Map for 2013 and Beyond,' unveiled last week. The aim of the CBSL is very clear, its aim in their words is ' improving the foreign exchange and debt market.' Accordingly, the Sri Lanka Forex Association (SLFA) said that it welcomed the recent exchange control relaxations announced in the latest Road Map.

So why are these traders in the banking and financial space so elated and intoxicated? Well it is because the Central Bank has re-adjusted its position on Net Open Position (NOP) limits of licensed commercial banks, tenure limits on customer bookings of forward transactions, and bringing in broader guidelines on selected derivative products.

"We are happy that the discussions had been fruitful. The relaxations would help the overall broader market participants such as exporters and importers in being more competitive and help manage their balance sheets in an efficient manner," SLFA Secretary Haren Obeyesekere had been quoted as saying.

Association of Primary Dealers had also been very positive. Accordingly positive features include the increase in foreign exchange overnight limit levels. Well what does all this jargon mean? Only one thing – 'DEREGULATION'

Let us now take a look at Iceland, and what happened to this beautiful country. This is our response.

Iceland is a Nordic European island country situated at the confluence of the North Atlantic and Arctic Oceans, on the Mid-Atlantic ridge. The country has a population of about 320,000 and a total area of 103,000 km2 (40,000 sq mi), which makes it the most sparsely populated country in Europe. The capital and largest city is Reykjavík, with the surrounding areas in the southwestern region of the country being home to two-thirds of the country's population.

Iceland is volcanically and geologically active. The interior consists mainly of a plateau characterized by sand and lava fields, mountains and glaciers, while many glacial rivers flow to the sea through the lowlands.

Iceland was a stable democracy with a high standard of living; and until a particular turning point had extremely low unemployment and government debt. Yes folks, it had very low government debt. They had the complete infrastructure of a modern society; clean energy, food production, fisheries, with a quota system to manage them, good healthcare, good education and even clean air. It had very little crime and it was a good place for everyone specially families to live. Some even called the situation an 'end of history' status.

That was until 2000. In 2000, Iceland's government began a broad policy of deregulation that would have disastrous consequences first for the environment, and then for the economy. They started by allowing multinational corporations to build giant aluminum-smelting plants, and exploit Iceland's natural geothermal and hydroelectric energy sources.

Many of the most beautiful areas in the highlands, with the most spectacular colors, are geothermal. So nothing comes without consequence. At the same time, the government privatized Iceland's three largest banks. The result was one of the purest experiments in financial deregulation ever conducted. This is when finance took over and destroyed an entire nation.

During a period of five years three tiny banks which had never operated outside of Iceland, borrowed 120 billion dollars - ten times the size of Iceland's economy. The bankers showered money on themselves, each other, and their friends. Does this ring a bell? There was a massive bubble. Stock prices went up by a factor of nine, domestic real estate prices more than doubled. And Iceland's bubble gave rise to people like Jón Ásgeir Jóhannesson. He borrowed billions from the banks to buy up high-end retail businesses in London.

Sounds familiar doesn't it?

Don't we have them too? They are forever present at opening ceremonies. Newspapers always had the headline: And just like Jóhannesson, we hear of these millionaires and businessmen in our country buying into this firm and that, opening this and that, making these deals. What we don't hear is how much they borrowed from which banks.

The banks set up money market funds. And the banks advised deposit holders to withdraw money, and put them in the money market funds. The Ponzi scheme needed everything it could, huh? In Sri Lanka there are efforts to encourage ordinary citizens to move away from fixed income instruments such as savings and fixed deposits into the volatility of the stock market. There are even programs on national TV to encourage this through quiz programs for school children.

American accounting firms, like KPMG, audited the Icelandic banks and investment firms and found nothing wrong; and American credit-rating agencies said Iceland was wonderful.

In February 2007, the rating agencies decided to upgrade the banks to the highest possible rate – AAA. In Iceland it went so far as the government traveling with the bankers as a PR show. Now things should become really familiar. In Sri Lanka this is more apparent now than ever.

When Iceland's banks collapsed at the end of 2008, unemployment tripled in six months. There is nobody unaffected in Iceland. So a lot of people lost their savings.

The government regulators who should have been protecting the citizen of Iceland had done nothing. In a particular case, there were two lawyers from the regulator going to a bank to talk about some issue. When they approach the bank, they would see 19 SUVs outside the bank.

Right? So you got to the bank, and you have the 19 lawyers sitting, uh, in front of you, right? They are very well prepared; uh, uh, ready to kill any argument you make. And then, if you do really well, they offer you a job, right?

Have you noticed how we now lack an opposition in parliament. That is what happened in Iceland. Everybody was bought.

What is interesting is that one-third of Iceland's financial regulators went to work for the banks.

Now we know that this is a universal problem. We have the same thing in Sri Lanka.

The regulator deregulates. Nalaka Godahewa, the Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission relaxed two controls put in place following several mishaps in the stock market barely one year before the controls had time to stabilize the situation. The Central Bank which curtailed loan growth has relaxed this ceiling and is suddenly encouraging loan growth and has even moved into monetary easing and is considering quantitative easing and building speculative markets – the very instruments that resulted in the collapse of several giant economies.

Last week, an MP pointed out that reminders sent to the chairman of that committee to summon the EPF to the COPA to investigate dozens of questionable transactions at the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE), have been overlooked.

He has claimed in a statement that responsible answers have not been given to allegations of fraud made against the EPF managed by the Central Bank to questions raised in Parliament.

Some trade unions have even gone to court on alleged fraud. One allegation is that the Rs. 1,000 billion EPF belonging to millions of employees was used for unworthy benefits of third parties in the now infamous 'stock market mafia' by allowing them to pump and dump shares of various dubious companies on the EPF.

Allegations of serious conflicts of interest have also been lodged in its purchase of shares of banks. It is also pointed out that, by dodging parliamentary questions, not submitting audited accounts and hiding from the Committee, the managers of the EPF at the Central Bank are only increasing the suspicion that some may have committed serious securities fraud punishable by prison terms if found guilty in a court of law.

So you see folks, it does look like we are fighting a losing battle with the financial space, and the lessons from Iceland are likely to go unheeded; and our paths have been chartered on a road to destruction.









PGA Tour season opener halted by strong winds

January 5, 2013, 7:14 pm

By Doug Ferguson

KAPALUA, Hawaii (AP) — The first tournament of the PGA Tour season will now be a three-day contest after severe winds in Hawaii prompted tour officials to scrap the first round of the Tournament of Champions on Friday.

All scores were erased — only 20 players in the 30-man field even had scores on their cards — and the round will start afresh on Saturday with 36 holes, weather permitting.

"I can honestly say the forecast isn't real good, but maybe we'll get lucky," said Slugger White, the tour's vice president of rules and competition. "That's the hope."

Rickie Fowler and Jason Dufner, who supposedly started the 2013 season by playing in the first group, only made it through eight holes. Six players, including defending champion Steve Stricker, had not even teed off.

It was the first time since The Players Championship in 2005 that a round had been wiped clean.

The decision was great news for Scott Stallings, who made a quadruple-bogey 8 on the third hole and already was 7-over par after four holes. He will tee off as if none of that ever happened. As for U.S. Open champion Webb Simpson?

"It stinks for me," Simpson said.

With a conservative game plan and a few good putts, Simpson was 3 under par after seven holes when play was stopped. Jonas Blixt of Sweden at 1 under was the only player surviving par.

Wind gusts of more than 70 kph became too much when Carl Pettersson lagged a 40-foot putt that was slowing around the hole until a gust came up and blew it another 30 feet and just off the green. Hunter Mahan went to address a putt and ball blew a few feet forward. Ian Poulter said he used his umbrella to shield the wind so he could mark his ball on the green, but when the umbrella moved, so did his golf ball.

Players were averaging about 350 yards off the tee on the first hole, with the trade wind at their backs. On the third hole, dead into the wind, no one hit a drive longer than 248 yards except for Stallings — his went 265 yards, only because it hit a cart path and disappeared into the native grass and was never found.

Fowler hit a driver and a 5-iron on the third hole. It's usually a wedge.

"Numbers were kind of irrelevant at times," Fowler said, referring to yardages.

Players originally were told to stay on the course to see if conditions would improve, and before long, they were brought back to the clubhouse. About an hour later, White met with them in the dining room to tell them the day was over.





Nawaloka Hospital opens Paediatric Intensive Care Unit

January 5, 2013, 6:17 pm

Nawaloka Hospital has opened Sri Lanka's first private Paediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU), to make 'critical care' available to infants and children from one month old onwards. This is further supported by the hospital's Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) which is primarily for premature babies, as well as infants up to one month old.

One key feature of Nawaloka Hospital's new PICU is the high level of personalised care on offer, with the whole unit comprising four beds, and trained experienced paediatric nurses to care for them. This is in comparison with paediatric facilities available island wide, both government and otherwise, where it is not uncommon for one, not always highly experienced, nurse to cater to one or more wards, which comprises a large number of patients. Further, while at Nawaloka Hospital, parents can consult any paediatric consultant, who can be accessed at the patient's bedside if the need arises.

In addition, Nawaloka Hospital also has the unique distinction of being the sole Sri Lankan private health care hospital to be recognised with the coveted "baby-friendly hospital" status, awarded to the hospital by both the World Health Organisation and the United Nation Children's Fund.

The Nawaloka Hospital PICU is not only a very significant undertaking for the hospital, but also being an absolute need, especially since this institution has already seen a high demand for PICU level services as a result of potential dengue cases. At the same time, children having epileptic status and asthmatic attacks are also other groups that need a higher degree of specialised attention or 'critical care', both of which are now available at the PICU.

About Nawaloka Hospital

With more than 400 beds and 600 visiting medical consultants, Nawaloka Hospital is the largest local private hospital in a single location, which is also the country's first fully fledged private healthcare institution, opened in 1985 with only 100 beds. The hospital was responsible for the well-being of over 1.5 million patients in total during the 2011/2012 period, during which it also carried out close to 15,000 surgeries.





ADB downgrades growth for South Asia

The Asian Development Bank has downgraded the growth forecast for South Asia by 0.2 percent to 5.3 percent in 2012 and 6.2 percent in 2013 on a slowing Indian economy.

"In India, recent economic data suggest that the economy remains sluggish," the ADB said in a update to its Asian Development Outlook.

"The July–September national accounts validate this weakness."

Gross domestic product growth has dipped to 5.3 percent in the second quarter of 2012 from 6.7 percent a year earlier, with poor output from farm and manufacturing sectors. Growth in private consumption expenditure was one of the lowest in years.

India's exchange rate has fallen over the past year amid interventions by the Reserve Bank of India.

In 2012 India is expected to grow 5.4 percent down from an earlier forecast of 5.6 percent, and a 2013 forecast has been cut to 6.5 percent from 6.7 percent.

"In the Maldives, recent political turmoil, growing concern over the increasing fiscal deficit, rising public debt, and the effect of the weaker European economy on tourism point to continued economic fragility," the report said.

Other economies in South Asia are expected to resilient, ADB said.

Sri Lanka has said it expects growth to be about 6.7 percent this year.

China is expected to grow 7.7 percent (8.1 percent next year) and South East Asia 5.3 percent (5.5 percent next year).





Judiciary cannot be repository of authority for making determinations — GL

In the impeachment of Judges

January 5, 2013, 7:23 pm

External Affairs Minister, Prof. G. L. Peiris observed that the question had been posed as to why the impeachment process was carried out by Parliament and not by judges, as judges are considered impartial, fair and can be looked up to for their wisdom. Within the structural framework of Sri Lanka's Constitution, there are overriding objections of principle and policy against entrusting this function to the judiciary. The judiciary cannot be looked upon as the repository of authority for making determinations in respect of the impeachment of Judges. It is wrong in principle.

Briefing the Diplomatic Corps in Colombo recently, Minister Peiris proceeded to present arguments emanating from English speaking jurisdictions, noting that the most persuasive articulation of the objection of entrusting this function to judges comes from USA. He quoted former Chief Justice William Rehnquist, who in the case of Nixon and the US (1993) explained very forcefully why the Supreme Court should not touch this matter.

The views of Chief Justice William Rehnquist was unanimously endorsed by the full Bench of the Supreme Court of the USA which represented one end of the political spectrum to the other. Referring to the views expressed by Justice White, he said encroachment into the right of the Senate to impeach a Judge is a violation of the law. Governments that condemn Sri Lanka in cavalier fashion should pay attention to these types of judgments.

Referring to Articles 4 and 107 of the Constitution of Sri Lanka, he noted that Article 107 clearly says that the power of impeachment clearly lies with the Parliament, so every word by William Rehnquist applies with great force to the situation in Sri Lanka. The Constitution ascribes this function to the legislature. Any encroachment is a violation of the values of the Constitution.

This reasoning was adopted by the Supreme Court of the Philippines last year with regard to the successful impeachment of Chief Justice Renato Corona of the Philippines. Accepted jurisprudence on the subject is that the Court should not get involved in issues pertaining to impeachment as it is a matter within the functions of the legislative. Therefore, it is wrong to criticize Sri Lanka without proper knowledge of the law that governs the matter, he pointed out.

The question has been posed as to why foreign judges are not brought in to sit in judgment in this matter as they would be objective. It was illegal to do so in Sri Lanka. In the "Sinharasa" case a challenge was brought against Sri Lanka's accession to the ICCPR and whether Sri Lanka should accede to the 1st Optional Protocol. Chief Justice Sarath Nanda Silva stated that Sri Lanka can undertake obligations in terms of the ICCPR, that is compatible with the Constitution of Sri Lanka, but cannot invest a foreign body/foreign court with jurisdiction in respect of matters that arise with respect to the legal framework of this country, Prof. Peiris noted.

"We cannot constitutionally accede to the 1st Optional protocol and to divest the Courts of this Country, because of Article 4 of the Constitution which governs the manner in which judicial power in Sri Lanka can be exercised. So foreign judges wherever they may come from, getting involved in this matter is totally at variance with the established norms of Sri Lanka's public law", he said.

With regard to criticism regarding the procedure of impeachment being vague, uncertain not fixed and nebulous, the Minister explained said it is nothing of the sort. He referred to Standing Order 78 A of the Sri Lankan Parliament in which the procedure to be adopted for impeachment is clearly stated in black and white. This was formulated 25 years ago by the Chief Opposition Party when it was in Government. It was not formulated by the present Government or a creation of the present Government. It has stood unchallenged for 25 years and not warranted criticism or protest.

Referring to criticism that the procedure is not fair, which he said was totally wrong, he compared Standing Order 78 A with English Law quoting from late Professor Sir William Wade's work on administrative law. The PSC under Article 78 A is called to investigate, report and convey its findings to Parliament and not to judge. The investigative body must make its own report.

He noted that in law there was a distinction between the function of judication and the function of investigation. Sir William Wade quoting Lord Denning on the functioning of an investigative body had stated that the investigative body is master of its procedure, it need not hold a hearing, can do everything in writing, need not allow lawyers to appear before, does not need to put every detail available against that person.

Referring to the Chief Justice walking out of the proceedings due to rudeness on the part of certain people, he noted that walking out was a renunciation of rights and therefore one could not complain of the consequences at a later date. The proceedings would therefore be ex-parte.

He posed questions to the Governments critical of Sri Lanka. He inquired regarding the consistency of the position taken in respect of these matters, noting that while there were shrill protests against the impeachment of the CJ, there were no such protests when the impeachment of a Chief Justice took place in the Philippines. Further, judges have been impeached previously in Sri Lanka to which there were no protests. He referred to the impeachment of Chief Justice Neville Samarakoon and Chief Justice Sarath N. Silva under the same provisions.

Noting that there was criticism that the Chief Justice had not been given sufficient time, Peiris observed that sufficiency of time is a relative concept and depends of the nature of the charges, the character of the supporting evidence and other attending circumstances.

He referred to the three charges against the Chief Justice and the documentary evidence which included Declaration of Assets and Liabilities, property transactions, deeds, and Inland Revenue documents, prepared by herself or on her behalf. He noted that there was no need for weeks and months to review these as it was possible to look at the declarations and the conclusion is clear. The inference generated by the documents is unequivocal. He added that people forget this when they make reference to the brevity of the time period. The criticism is ill founded and does not bear scrutiny even at superficial level.









Fundamental rights and fundamental values

January 5, 2013, 6:51 pm

by Dr Reeza Hameed

Those who were instrumental in drafting the Sri Lanka constitution currently in force were keen to limit parliament's powers. Mr. J R Jayewardene, who as Prime Minister chaired the Parliamentary Select Committee on the draft 1978 constitution, remarked at one of its hearings:

"We are practically a dictatorship today. There is nothing we cannot do in this House with a five-sixths majority. I am trying to avoid that". [emphasis added]

This intention is made clear by not giving the Sri Lanka parliament the same powers as those of the English parliament. It is for this reason that the powers of government have been kept separate and the independence of the judiciary and fundamental rights have been guaranteed.

Parliament continues to remain a very powerful institution. It is responsible for enacting laws and also keeping the executive, including the presidency, under check and to hold it to account. Parliament has several arrows to its bow to carry out this task. . Unfortunately, the executive has entangled itself with parliament to a degree such that parliament has been unable to carry out fully this important function. The close nexus between them has caused parliament to function for the benefit of the executive and allowed the executive to take refuge in parliament for its own advantage and to invoke the benefits of theories such as parliamentary sovereignty and the privileges of parliament.

Many years later, J R Jayewardene acknowledged in public the need for reform of the presidential powers, especially in three areas: (i) the term of office, which he suggested be reduced to four years, (ii) his responsibility to parliament, and (iii) and his immunity.

Professor G L Peiris, during his tenure as the Minister for Constitutional Affairs in the Chandrika Bandaranaike government, highlighted the concentration of power in the executive president as a major weakness of the constitution. He also criticized the JR rationale that a strong executive unhampered by the whims of the parliament was needed to implement the economic and social policies of the government of the day. In Dr Peiris' view a constitution "is not meant to be an instrument to facilitate a particular political or ideological objective, or indeed a facilitator of strong government. On the contrary, the primary function of a constitution, particularly in a modern third world where the State inevitably wields considerable discretionary power, is to create regularized restraint or checks and balances on the exercise of political power."

In short, it is the function of the constitution to have in place mechanisms to deter abuse of power, and power is capable of being abused not only by a president but also by a parliament.

There are many features in the constitution that militate against the claim that parliament can do what it wants. Despite the concentration of executive power in the hands of a powerful president, the powers of government have been kept separate and the independence of the judiciary has been guaranteed.

On the other hand, there is both institutional and functional separation between the legislature – and the executive – on the one hand and the judiciary on the other. By comparison, although there is functional separation between parliament and the executive, the institutional separation between the two is less clear cut.

Without an independent judiciary to arbitrate on questions regarding the allocation of power, and to interpret its provisions, the system cannot work. Fundamental rights would become merely sanctimonious pronouncements in the absence of an independent judiciary to enforce them.

Those who argue in favour of a supreme parliament would like to see all authority vested in that body because it consists of elected representatives, regarding anything short as a denial of people's sovereignty. In their view, judges have no right to review its actions because they are an unelected bunch without any right to question the actions of the elected representatives.

This is an argument based on the fallacious assumption that popular sovereignty is exercised only through one organ of the state. The argument that parliament's powers ought not to be limited because its representatives have been elected is rooted neither in principle nor logic. It is contradicted by the constitution itself. It is the constitution that has provided that the judicial power of the people shall be exercised by unelected judges, and it is the constitution that has given the judges the authority to act as a check on elected representatives of the people as well as on executive and administrative action. If the price of liberty is eternal vigilance, then the judiciary is an essential means of exercising that vigilance.

If the principle that no organ of state shall have unlimited power is accepted, then it should not be difficult to accept the need for a mechanism to ensure that power is not exceeded. The judiciary exercises an aspect of sovereign power and is an instrument of the people in much the same way that the legislature is.

As stated in its Preamble, the constitution ratified "the immutable republican principles of representative democracy" and assured to all peoples freedom, equality, justice, fundamental rights and the independence of the judiciary". It is inconceivable that a constitution designed to achieve the goals of a democratic socialist republic would have conferred unbridled power on its elected officials who happen to sit in parliament.

If the intention was to give elected representatives unlimited powers, then the constitution would not have enshrined fundamental rights and given the judiciary the duty to enforce them. Fundamental rights and an independent judiciary underpin the constitutional structure and they reflect fundamental values to be respected by government. These are essential for the Rule of Law to prevail. These are obligations that the people demanded of their representatives. The elected representatives who adopted the Constitution as "the supreme law" did so by acknowledging their obligations to the People, having assimilated these values into the constitution.

In conclusion, for a democratic system to work it is important to recognize that powers cannot be conferred on government without defined limits. The constitution envisions Sri Lanka as a welfare state. The State is expected to bring about a welfare state within the framework of the constitution, respecting the fundamental values enshrined in the constitution. These values have been entrenched in order to place them beyond the reach of temporary majorities produced at periodic elections.

Dr. Reeza Hameed, a long-standing member of CRM, is an Attorney-at-Law with degrees from universities in Sri Lanka, the USA and UK. He assisted S. Nadesan QC in a number of historic constitutional and fundamental rights cases including the Pavidi Handa case, the Kalawana case, the Daily News Contempt case, and challenges to the banning of Aththa and the Saturday Review. When the editor of Aththa B.A. Siriwardene, and later Nadesan himself, were charged with breach of privilege of Parliament, Reeza was part of the defence team led by Senior Attorney HL de Silva.

This article is circulated by CRM for its relevance to the wider discussion arising from the current attempt to impeach the Chief Justice.





CJ out later this week?

Match over by Friday, says informed sources

January 5, 2013, 7:18 pm

The drama over the ongoing attempt to impeach Chief Justice Shirani Bandaranayake is expected to end later this week with Parliament debating and voting on the report of the Parliamentary Select Committee (PSC) which found her guilty of three of the five charges examined.

``It will be all over by Jan. 11,'' a well informed source said yesterday. ``The writing is on the wall. Once Parliament votes on the resolution and an address is made to the President, she will be removed from office the next day.''

These sources were confident that there will be no change of stance by the government despite mounting pressure both locally and externally to defuse the situation by taking a step back.

The Chief Justice's own writ application is due to be taken up by the Court of Appeal on Monday but it is unlikely that there will be a determination on that day, sources knowledgeable with court procedure said.

``It is likely that it will be put off for Jan. 15 when other writ applications, including that of civil society activist Chandra Jayaratne, a former Chairman of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce, on which the Appeal Court sought and obtained a constitutional interpretation from the Supreme Court.''

This interpretation makes clear that the route of determining misbehaviour through the Parliamentary Select Committee process is not lawful.

A meeting of party leaders will be held early this week, possibly tomorrow. However a party leader indicated yesterday that no meeting had yet been called as far as he knew. He thought such a meeting to fix business of the House will be scheduled for Tuesday.The Opposition is very likely to urge that a two-day debate, now being spoken of in government circles, is grossly inadequate for a matter as serious as the impeachment of a Chief Justice.

``After all we were told 10 days earlier, so two days is certainly not enough,'' he said.

A further complicating factor is some remarks made by Public Relations and Public Affairs Minister Mervyn Silva at a news conference on Friday which some analyst believe can be construed of being in contempt of court. However there was no indication whether this matter will be pursued.

There is every likelihood of crowds converging on parliament when the impeachment motion is voted on and arrangements for that are being made. There has also been talk of a march from Hultsdorf to parliament. There was no indication of whether such demonstrations will be permitted in the interest of law and order.

Questions were also being asked on whether the CJ will submit herself to a dismissal in the light of court rulings on the matter. If the president goes ahead and appoints a new CJ then we will be in a situation where the country has two chief justices, an analyst said.

``Remember the time that President Jayewardene tried to have two MPs for Kalawana?'' a political analyst asked. ``He ultimately backed down in the face of a Supreme Court ruling that the required constitutionl amendment, affecting the franchise of the people, required a referendum.''





Remembering Dr. Tony Gabriel

A Tribute

January 5, 2013, 7:26 pm

Friends, it is an honour and a privilege to speak a few words about the life and achievements of Dr. Anthony Gabriel M.B.B.S.(Cey), F.R.C.S., (Eng)., F.R.C.S. (Edin), Hon F.D.S., R.C.S (Eng)., Hon F.C.C.S., Hon F.D.S. (Sri Lanka), a man who made the fullest use of the talents given to him.

Tony, the only child of Dr. Vrasapillai and Florence Gabriel, was born on 10-1-25.

He schooled at the Royal College in Colombo and did his undergraduate studies at the Colombo Medical College, where he obtained a first class at the final MBBS with distinctions in medicine and in gynaecology and obstetrics. He then embarked on a career in surgery, obtaining the fellowships of the Royal College of Surgeons of England and of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinborough.

On his return to Ceylon, he served as the resident surgeon in the General Hospital in Colombo and then at Badulla, Jaffna and Galle, before taking up the challenge of being surgeon at the cancer hospital in Maharagama in 1971. This decision was to be pivotal in the establishment of surgical oncology as a field in its own right in Sri Lanka, by the time he retired, 24 years later.

Dr. Gabriel achieved many things in his years as a surgeon. He was an active member (and dreaded examiner) at the PGIM. He was a point of training for many overseas surgeons. He was President of the College of Surgeons of Sri Lanka and the editor of the Sri Lanka Journal of Surgery. His contributions in the field were recognized by an honorary fellowship of the College of Surgeons of Sri Lanka and a fellowship ad eundem of the Faculty of Dental Surgery of the Royal College of Surgeons of England. He had many publications in local and foreign journals and delivered several orations.

As a surgeon, he truly lived up to the name of Gabriel — the archangel whose name means the strength of God.

This is just the bare bones of Dr. Gabriel, his curriculum vitae if you will.

As we all know, there was more to Tony than bare bones. Quite a bit more actually! His mischievous sense of humour and his great humanity touched all of us who dealt with him. He mentored a generation of surgeons, teaching them not only of books but of men. He had nicknames for all of us and acted as if he never knew our names, until we passed out and met him — when he would say hello Pradeep or hello Neville, and ask about our welfare.

He was always quick with his repartee. On one occasion, the College of Surgeons organized a workshop for nurses. Tony had commended the then secretary, Prof Nandadeva Samarasekera on this. Nandadeva said — "we felt that the nurses were a neglected lot." Bang came the reply — "They weren't in my day."

I had the privilege of having a few exchanges with him, in one of which I thought I came off well. My wife had presented a paper at the College of Surgeons. This was well received. At the old entrance to Wijerama house, he met both of us and said "I say men, did you marry this girl for her beauty or her brains?" I replied "Actually, sir, I married her for her money."

On the trip the College of Surgeons made to Jaffna, I had the pleasure of having several long chats with him about his time in Jaffna , of how he would play tennis, and go shooting, and how he would drive up in his Peugot 403. At one of these conversations, I said that he appeared to have lived a better life than we ever would — and he told me his son had said the same to him.

To all of us who knew him, his passing away meant, in the words of William Cory, bitter news to bear and bitter tears to shed.

His way of speaking to each of us made us feel that we had tired the sun with talking and sent him down the sky.

Tony was a man of many facets (or talents if you will), surgery being only one of them, devoted husband to Jeevamani and loving father to Sanjeev and Harin, army medical officer, hunter, planter, actor, and passionate golfer, (not necessarily in that order) he was indeed a man for all seasons, a wonderful, vibrant, loveable human being, best described in the words of Mark Antony — His life was gentle, and the elements so mixed in him that nature might stand up and say to all the world, "This was a man.





Kobe Bryant: I'm on Twitter now

With five words — "The antisocial has become social" — the Los Angeles Lakers guard sent the first tweet from his account Friday. More than 250,000 people followed his verified account, (at) kobebryant, within four hours.

Bryant tiptoed into the Twitterverse last week when he briefly took over Nike basketball's account, when he sent out things like a photo of him hanging out with his daughter, an ice bath that he was dreading and even a suit he was wearing to a particular game.

Bryant says those few days made him consider starting his own account, saying he enjoyed connecting with fans "with no filters."

Heat star LeBron James has 6.8 million followers, the most of any NBA player.





Clippers still kings of LA, beat Lakers 107-102

January 5, 2013, 7:16 pm

LOS ANGELES — The Clippers maintained NBA bragging rights in Los Angeles by beating their co-tenants, the Lakers, on Friday, surviving a last quarter comeback to win 107-102.

Other teams to suffer disappointing home-court results were Miami, beaten by Chicago, and Memphis, which was defeated by Portland. The NBA-leading Oklahoma City Thunder kept on rolling though, downing Philadelphia.

The Clippers led all the way against the Lakers, with Chris Paul having 30 points and 13 assists and Blake Griffin adding 24 points, but the Lakers stayed right in it.

Kobe Bryant scored 38 points and carried the Lakers in the fourth quarter when they closed to 99-97 with 1:29 left. But Paul scored the Clippers' final eight points to seal the victory and move a full 10 games above their more-famous city rivals.

The Chicago Bulls became only the third visiting team to win at Miami this season, dominating the boards and beating the Heat 96-89, with Carlos Boozer scoring 27 points.

Chicago outrebounded Miami 48-28. The Bulls had 19 offensive rebounds to four for the Heat.

Miami's LeBron James scored 30 points, extending his streaks of scoring at least 20 points to 31 consecutive games this season, and 52 games in a row overall when including last year's playoffs.

Oklahoma City beat the Philadelphia 76ers 109-85 to keep its nose ahead of the Clippers in percentage terms for overall top spot in the standings.

Russell Westbrook scored 27 points, Kevin Durant added 26 for the Thunder, which made eight of its first 10 3-point attempts in the second half to break open the game.

Nick Young's 21 points led Philadelphia, which was playing the seventh of eight straight road games.

The Portland Trail Blazers edged the Memphis Grizzlies 86-84 in a contest that saw the scores tied nine times and 21 lead changes.

Wesley Matthews scored 21 points and J.J. Hickson added 19 points and 11 rebounds for Portland, which only hung on when Rudy Gay's jump shot from near the top of the key at the buzzer was off the mark.

Marreese Speights had a season-high 22 points and 13 rebounds for the Grizzlies in place of Zach Randolph, who missed the game with illness.

The Houston Rockets continued their run of recent good form, winning 115-101 at the Milwaukee Bucks.

James Harden scored 29 points, shooting 11 of 18 from the floor to go with seven assists and four steals.

The Rockets, who shot 54 percent from the field, also got 22 points from Carlos Delfino in his return to Milwaukee, where he played from 2009-12.

Milwaukee equaled a season worst by losing its third game in a row despite 16 points from Brandon Jennings.

The Boston Celtics ended a four-game skid by beating the Indiana Pacers 94-75, with Kevin Garnett scoring 18 points before he was ejected for a flagrant foul in the fourth quarter.





ANC Education the premier international higher education conglomerate in the country once again presents the Malaysian Education fair 2013. It will be held on 13 January 2013 between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. at Cinnamon Lakeside. This the second successful year that ANC will be organizing the event with academic collaboration between Malaysia's top colleges and universities including INTI University & Colleges, Taylor's University, SEGi University, International Medical University (IMU), Nilai University, KBU International College and Curtin University Sarawak.

The Malaysian Education Fair offers students who are interested to study abroad to meet representatives from these universities and colleges in Malaysia. UK universities such as University of Bradford, University of Sunderland, University of Greenwich, Sheffield Hallam University, Nottingham Trent University, Anglia Ruskin University, as well as Australian Universities including University of Wollongong and Upper Iowa University and Northwood University from USA, who offer their— programmes in Malaysia in collaboration with these Malaysia universities will be present at the exhibition for students to get detailed information about the available programmes, costs and other information.

Malaysian Education Fair 2013 is a valuable resource for parents, students, and educators. The exhibition is designed to provide information on education, tuition fees, financial planning, accommodation and living in the world's newest premier study destination; Malaysia. The exhibition offers one to one meetings with partner university representatives, valuable hands-on financial planning workshops for parents and students (including how to prepare for scholarships and reduce education costs).

For students who plan to study in Malaysia or in a top international higher education hub ANC provides a gamut of choices. ANC offer students the opportunity to complete the university foundation year after Ordinary Level examinations or complete the first year for business or engineering degrees after Advanced Level examinations right here in Sri Lanka. Once they follow either of these programmes they will be able to transfer to a top university in Malaysia to complete the degree. This is a cost effective option and it also prepares the student for university study methods while living in Sri Lanka. Students can also apply directly to the relevant universities in Malaysia through ANC which will give them a better chance of entering due to ANC's academic collaboration with those universities.









Juniors showed promise despite athletics dropping to new lows

Reviewing Track and Field 2012

January 5, 2013, 5:13 pm

By Reemus Fernando

Impressive performances of the hosts at the Junior Asian Athletics championship are the brightest flashbacks from track and field competitions at the end of an Olympic year where only one athlete reaching qualifying standards to represent the country at the 2012 London Olympics.

Two represented Sri Lanka at track and field events at the Olympics, the top most competition an athlete could dream of competing at. But sadly both competitors were overseas based athletes for whose achievements the establishment here cannot claim credit for.

While UK based marathoner Indrajith Cooray was the only qualified athlete representing Sri Lanka, US based Christine Merrill was country's wildcard entrant in the women's category. Despite having the experience of competing in London before and a previous Olympic marathon, Cooray managed only to return a time of two hours, 20 minutes and 41 seconds to be ranked 55th among 105 competitors. For him it was 'satisfactory' in a race where none of the three favoured Ethiopians could complete the race.

In Christine Merrill's case she was expected to gain the valuable exposure which would auger well for her future. When the athletes came under the starter's orders for the women's 400 metres hurdles heats the capacity crowd at the Olympic stadium did not know whether a Sri Lankan was competing in that heat. Only the names of the qualified athlete were announced. She was running to gain exposure. Probably Merrill gained the most of her participation by producing a 'good first 200 metres'. Competing in the fifth heat in lane nine Merrill got off to a flying start clearing the first three hurdles at quite a pace, which she later described as her best ever, but finished last returning a time of 57.15 seconds.

The two Sri Lankan athletes were not expected to make big impressions at London. But just two making it to Olympics and only one qualifying for it depicted the sorry state the athletics had fallen into from the medal winning sport in the year 2000 to four participants in 2004 (Athens) to two qualified (both women) athletes in 2008 (Beijing).

Despite the gloom prevailing over athletics there is a silver line. The junior school athletes have been providing hope even during the darkest periods of country's athletics. When they bagged six medals at the Junior Asian Athletics championship in front of home crowds at the Sugathadasas Stadium they proved it once again. Sri Lanka has historically been a force to be reckoned in the Asian region in both men's and women's 400 metres. Dulaj Madusanka and Shivanthi Kumari Ratnayake kept the lion flag flying high winning gold medals in these disciplines. Ratnayake won a second medal when she anchored the girls 400 metres relay team to win a silver. High jumper Nimesha Siriwardena won a silver in the girls' high jump, while Chamika Jayamini surprised many, winning a bronze in the steeplechase.

Though he could win only a bronze medal, Supun Viraj Randeniya was probably the most promising Sri Lankan athlete as he improved his personal best to achieve the highest points by a Sri Lankan in the IAAF points table at the competition.

At local competitions Champika Dilrukshi was probably the most promising female athlete in the senior category as she celebrated her return from a ban with a national record. She clocked 4:16.42 seconds to own the women's 1,500 metres national record. Incidentally, she also showed lot of promise at the final selection meet for London Olympics with good performances and some critics cited her as the ideal candidate for Sri Lanka's women's wildcard for London Olympics. However, selectors placed their confidence on Asian Championship medalist Merrill.

What seemed like a drug free year ended with a teenager being banned from the sport for one year after he was found positive for Methylhexamine. Kalutara Vidyalaya sprinter Himasha Eshan clocked 10.50 seconds to win the National title but later he was stripped off the title after failing a drug test.

The year 2012 was also notable for the change of administration at the helm of athletics. General Palitha Fernando who had been the president since 2007 could not run for a sixth term as the Sports Minister Mahindananda Aluthgamage refused to grant permission for him to proceed. The latter cited alleged discrimination by Fernando as one of the reasons for not giving permission for him to run for the presidency. Maj. Gen. Daya Ratnayake was elected uncontested at an AGM held under the supervision of the Sports Ministry authorities. There were contests for other posts and a segment of the athletics fraternity criticized the election process. The dispute almost jeopardized country's chances of hosting the Junior Asian Athletics Championship before Sports Ministry and the newly elected officials fought back to win the faith of Asian Athletics Association officials to host the championship successfully.

The incumbent president Ratnayake has given priority to amending the constitution of the AASL. With the next AGM just a few months away will he be able to achieve it?









MR's Jeffersonian/Nehruvian Moment

January 5, 2013, 7:27 pm

The determination made by a three member bench of the Supreme Court comprising of Justices Gamini Amaratunga, K.Sripavan and Priyasath Dep, to a query regarding the interpretation of Article 107(3) of the constitution addressed to them by the Court of Appeal was described by UNP Provincial Councillor Srinath Perera as a historic decision. Indeed it is, but things can be 'historic' for all the wrong reasons too. The question that had been addressed to the Supreme Court by the Appeal Court with regard to the impeachment procedure was as follows:

"Is it mandatory under Article 107(3) of the Constitution for the Parliament to provide for matters relating to the forum before which the allegations are to be proved, the mode of proof, burden of proof; standard of proof etc., of any alleged misbehaviour or incapacity in addition to matters relating to the investigation of the alleged misbehaviour or incapacity?"

The Attorney General contended that Though Article 125(1) grants sole and exclusive jurisdiction to the SC to hear and determine any question relating to the interpretation of the Constitution, when it comes to the removal of Judges of the Supreme Court or the Court of Appeal, the SC does not have any jurisdiction. And further that the power to remove judges of the Supreme Court and the Court of Appeal vested in the Legislature and the Executive under our Constitution is a check on the judiciary. The SC did not accept that argument and made a determination based on the following points.

* Article 52(2) of the 1947 Constitution of Ceylon enabled judges to be removed by an address in both houses of parliament. Similarly, Article 122(1) of the republican constitution of 1972 Article allowed the removal of judges by an address in the National State Assembly. However, the 1978 Constitution laid down an elaborate process for the removal of a Judge and it has been stipulated in the constitution that impeachment can take place only on proved misbehaviour or incapacity. The object and the significance of these new provisions are important matters that have to be considered in interpreting Article 107(3) of the constitution.

* The preamble to the constitution states that the independence of the judiciary is an important part of the intangible heritage that guarantees the dignity and well being of the people of Sri Lanka. It was pointed out that in Visuvalingam v Liyanage (1983) Justice Sharvananda J had held that the framers of the 1978 constitution were so solicitous of ensuring the independence of the judges that they were made irremovable save on the limited grounds and manner specifically set out in the constitution.

* Article 107 has not specified the body or the Authority which shall investigate the allegations in impeachment motions against Judges. Article 107(3) of the constitution states that Parliament shall "by law or by standing orders" provide for the procedure to impeach judges. However, parliament has not enacted any law to provide for matters set out in Article107(3). Parliament passed in 1984 Standing Order 78A which lays out the procedure for impeaching judges.

* The petitioners in the Court of Appeal and in the SC have contended that Standing Order 78A confers judicial power on the Select Committee to investigate the allegations of misbehaviour or incapacity of judges. They contend that this violates Article 4(c) of the Constitution which stipulates that parliament shall exercise its judicial power through courts and tribunals established by law except in cases regarding the powers and privileges of parliament where parliament can exercise this power directly according to law. They have further contended that judicial power cannot be conferred upon the Select Committee by a Standing Order which is not Law.

* The basic premise of Public Law is that power is held in trust, not absolutely - that is to say, it can validly be used only in the right and proper way. It has been firmly stated in several judgements of this Court that the 'rule of law' is the basis of our Constitution. Justice Bhagwathi has stated that it is the judiciary which is entrusted with the task of keeping every organ of the State within the limits of the law and thereby making the Rule of Law meaningful and effective.

* Without a definite finding that the allegations have been proved no address of Parliament could be made for the removal of a Judge. Thus the 'Investigation' referred to in Article 107(3) is an indispensable step in the process for the removal of a Judge of the Supreme Court and the Court of Appeal. The investigation leads to a finding whether the allegations made against the Judge have been proved or not. The finding that the charges have been proved is the indispensable legal basis for the address. Thus, the finding that the allegations have been proved is a finding that adversely affects the constitutional right of a Judge to hold office during good behaviour.

* The finding of the Select Committee is not subject to confirmation or approval by some other authority. It stands by itself. In a State ruled by a constitution based on the rule of law, no court, tribunal or other body (by whatever name it is called) has authority to make a finding or a decision affecting the rights of a person unless such court, tribunal or body has the power conferred on it by law to make such finding or decision. Such legal power can be conferred only by an Act of parliament which is a law and not by standing orders which are not law but are rules made for the regulation of the orderly conduct and the affairs of the Parliament. The standing orders are not law within the meaning of Article 170 of the Constitution which defines what is meant by 'law'. Therefore a Select Committee appointed under and in terms of Standing Order 78A has no legal power or authority to make a finding adversely affecting the legal rights of a Judge. The power to make a valid finding after the investigation contemplated in Article 107(3) can be conferred on a body, only by law and by law alone.

* The matters relating to proof being matters of law, also will have to be provided for by law and the burden of proof, the mode of proof and the degree of proof also will have to be specified by law to avoid any uncertainty as to the proof of the alleged misbehaviour or incapacity without leaving room for the body conducting the investigation to decide the questions relating to proof according to its subjective perception.

That in essence is the gist of the SC judgement. The basic argument is that even though Article 107(3) of the constitution says that "Parliament shall by law or by Standing, Orders" provide for the procedure to impeach judges, parliament has no discretion in this matter and it has to be done by law, not by standing orders. This is an instance of the courts telling parliament what it should and should not do even when the option is given to parliament by the constitution itself. To make matters worse, the SC has even quoted Anura Bandaranaike's famous ruling where while upholding the supremacy of parliament he had also stated that "Members of Parliament may give their mind to the need to introduce fresh legislation or amend the existing standing orders regarding motions of impeachment against judges of the superior courts. I believe such provision has already been included in the draft constitution tabled in this house in August 2000. " The SC adds that the 2000 draft constitution did not see the light of the day as a new constitution. This is a case of the SC telling parliament what kind of laws they should enact. That is not the role of the SC.

In this gloomy scenario, the only bright spot is that the SC has tried on earlier occasions to order the removal of checkpoints on roads and to ban night searches of houses and even to determine the price of petrol all of which were spectacularly ignored by the executive branch. On an earlier occasion the SC tried to serve a stay order on parliament in relation to accepting or otherwise of an impeachment motion against the then CJ, which was ignored by parliament. So the precedents in cases like this are already well established.

Be that as it may, this latest determination by the SC would have given President Mahinda Rajapaksa a taste of what US President Thomas Jefferson would have felt on the 24th of February 1803, the day that the US Supreme Court decided in Maubry v Madison that the SC has the authority to review acts of Congress and determine whether they are unconstitutional. The power of judicial review of legislation was not explicitly stated in the US constitution but was a power that the SC conferred on itself through judicial interpretation. Article 3 (2) of the US constitution simply says that "The judicial power shall extend to..." and among the things that the judicial power extends to, is mentioned the words "the laws of the United States". It was the latter phrase that the US SC used to arrogate to itself the power of judicial review. President Jefferson moved swiftly to tame the judiciary by bringing in quick succession, impeachment motions against two judges - Thomas Pickering and Samuel Chase. This was to show that while the judiciary can use its powers, the legislature can make use of theirs as well.

Jawaharlal Nehru of India faced a similar situation in 1951 when the Supreme Court was blocking social reform legislation in India. He introduced the first amendment to the constitution, creating a special list of legislation over which the Indian SC has no jurisdiction. (This list started with 13 pieces of legislation but now has 283.) Since then, the strategy of the Indian government has been to side step the Supreme Court either by adding legislation to Nehru's list or by directly overriding SC decisions by bringing amendments to the constitution. The single body that has inspired the greatest number of constitutional amendments in India is the Supreme Court. Thus the manner in which the Judiciary is handled in the USA and in India are now well established. What last week showed was that Sri Lanka too is now facing the moment of truth that President Jefferson faced in 1803 and Nehru faced in 1951.

The courts and parliament

In Sri Lanka, three sources of law lay down the powers of parliament – firstly there is the constitution itself which lays down the main powers of parliament. Secondly there is the

Parliamentary Powers and Privileges Act No: 21 of 1953 and its many amendments which fill in the gaps left by the constitution and thirdly, Article 7 of the Parliamentary Powers and Privileges Act states that any gaps in that Act can be filled by following the practices and precedents of the House of Commons of the United Kingdom parliament. If we look at these sources of law, we see that Article 4 of the Parliamentary Powers and Privileges Act lays down very clearly that Members of Parliament shall not be liable to any proceedings in any court in relation to the matters brought before parliament.

Since the practices and precedents of the British parliament are to be followed in Sri Lanka in terms of the Parliamentary Powers and Privileges Act, it would be pertinent to note that the House of Lords Select Committee on the Constitution decided in its 2006-07 Sessions that while it is not for Parliament to hold judges to account for their judgments, it is a fundamental principle of a democratic society ... that those with power should be accountable to the people, through their elected representatives. It was also asserted that Parliament is the "apex" of accountability in the political process, since the public is the judiciary's key stakeholder and Parliament represents the people.

The landmark British case of Stockdale v. Hansard (1839) laid down the precedent as far as the privileges of parliament were concerned among which the following points are noteworthy in the present context.

1. The House should be exclusively the Judge of its own privilege. The power claimed is said to be necessary to the due performance both of the legislative and inquisitorial functions of the House.

2. The House of Commons and the members thereof should in no way be obstructed in the performance of their duties, and if the House be so obstructed, the remedy should be in its own hands, and immediate, without the delay of resorting to the ordinary tribunals of the country.

3. The Courts of Law are subordinate to the Houses of Parliament and the courts are therefore incompetent to decide upon a question of parliamentary privilege.

The House of Lords in a more recent case British Railways Board v Pickin (1974) stated the following:

Lord Reid: - All that a court of justice can look to is the parliamentary roll; they see that an act has passed both Houses of Parliament, and that it has received the royal assent, and no court of justice can inquire into the manner in which it was introduced into parliament, what was done previously to its being introduced, or what passed in parliament during the various stages of its progress through both Houses of Parliament. For a century or more both Parliament and the courts have been careful not to act so as to cause conflict between them. Any such investigations as the respondent seeks could easily lead to such a conflict, and I would only support it if compelled to do so by clear authority. But it appears to me that the whole trend of authority for over a century is clearly against permitting any such investigation.

Lord Morris of Broth-Y-Gest:- It must surely be for Parliament to lay down the procedures which are to be followed before a bill can become an Act. It must be for Parliament to decide whether its decreed procedures have in fact been followed. It must be for Parliament to lay down and to construe its standing orders and further to decide whether they have been obeyed; it must be for Parliament to decide whether in any particular case to dispense with compliance with such orders. It must be for Parliament to decide whether it is satisfied that an Act should be passed in the form and with the wording set out in the Act. It must be for Parliament to decide what documentary material or testimony it requires and the extent to which Parliamentary privilege should attach. It would be impracticable and undesirable for the High Court of Justice to embark on an enquiry concerning the effect or the effectiveness of the internal procedures in the High Court of Parliament or an enquiry whether in any particular case those procedures were effectively followed. If a mistake has been made, the legislature alone can correct it. The court must accept the enactment as the law unless and until the legislature itself alters such enactment on being persuaded of its error.'

Lord Simon of Glaisdale:- The courts in this country have no power to declare enacted law to be invalid. That being so, it would be odd if the same thing could be done indirectly, through frustration of the enacted law by the application of some alleged doctrine of equity. Parliamentary privilege is part of the law of the land (see Erskine May's Parliamentary Practice). Among the privileges of the Houses of Parliament is the exclusive right to determine the regularity of their own internal proceedings. What is said or done within the walls of Parliament cannot be inquired into in a court of law. On this point all the judges in the two great cases which exhaust the learning on the subject, – Burdett v. Abbott (1811) and Stockdale v. Hansard; – are agreed, and are emphatic.'

Colvin was right!

When considering last week's SC determination we see the wisdom that was enshrined in the 1947 constitution and the republican constitution of 1972 which made the judges of the superior courts removable by a simple address of parliament. When the present standing orders of parliament relating to the impeachment of judges was being debated in April 1984, Prime Minister R.Premadasa poked fun at Sarath Muttetuwegama saying that despite the Communist Party MP's calls for an independent body outside parliament instead of a parliamentary select committee to inquire into the allegations in an impeachment motion, in the 1972 republican constitution which was authored by his father in law Colvin R de Silva, there was to be no inquiry at all, and judges could be removed by a simple majority after an address in parliament. Premadasa averred that since the quorum of parliament at that time was 25, only 13 MPs were needed to sack any judge.

Premadasa's argument was that compared to the provisions for the removal of judges in the 1947 and 1972 constitutions, the system brought by the UNP government was a vast improvement in that it had provision for a mandatory inquiry and removal only on proven grounds of misbehaviour or incapacity. Moreover he stressed that even though judges could be removed with a simple majority of parliament, this simple majority had to be a simple majority of the total number of MPs in parliament (including those not present) and not just a majority of those present and voting on that day. Last week's SC determination made it very clear that their present determination seeks to adhere to the spirit of the changes introduced through the 1978 constitution. This has now led to a situation where the SC has declared invalid the constitutionally mandated impeachment procedure (the constitution plus the standing orders made under authority of Article 107(3) of the constitution).

Now that constitutional change is in the air again, the government should seriously consider going back to the old system in the 1947 and 1972 constitutions whereby judges could be removed by a simple address in parliament, by a simple majority, without any inquiry except for whatever debate that takes place in parliament. In those good old days, problems like the issues we face today were unthinkable. We clearly see today that the so called 'improvements' that were made in the 1978 constitution have failed. The opposition has walked out of the proceedings and if a judge is to be impeached in the future there is no point in going through the present procedure again. Finally, what we see after more than three decades is that Colvin was right to retain the 1947 formula for the removal of judges.

We pointed out in a previous column that despite anything that may have been said in the Latimer House Principles on the removal of judges, the British Constitutional Reform Act of 2005 has judiciously retained the system of removing judges by a simple address in parliament in respect of the highest judicial body. They have implemented the Latimer House Principles only in respect of the lower judicial bodies. With regard to Australia as well we saw that Australian Judicial Misbehaviour and Incapacity (Parliamentary Commissions) Act No; 188 of 2012 has not really changed the law with regard to the removal of judges but only given the Australian parliament another option in its repertoire of options relating to the removal of a judge.

Australia too can sack a judge by an address in parliament. They have the option of appointing a special commission to inquire into the allegations against the judge, then they can appoint any other kind of commission or not appoint any commission at all –the discretion lies entirely with parliament. We see that both Britain and Australia have in recent years opted for open ended removal procedures for judges and this is the precedent that we should be following. Countries like Britain and Australia are full of mad judges whose judgements are the subject of much media attention and public ire or entertainment as the case may be. The reason why those countries left the removal procedure simple and uncomplicated is because if by some chance one of these crackpots gets into the highest judicial body, there is no predicting what will happen. In the USA, there is some protection for the public because of Senate scrutiny of all appointments to the superior judiciary and a reputed crackpot will have little chance of getting into the Supreme Court. Countries that do not have such safeguards should always opt for the removable of judges by a simple address of parliament.





'American Exceptionalism' comes home to roost!

LATEST SCHOOL MASSACRE PROOF ENOUGH OF THE MYTH . . .

"I suspect that our own faith in psychiatry will seem as touchingly quaint to the future as our grandparents' belief in phrenology seems now to us."

- Gore Vidal - Reflections Upon a Sinking Ship (1969)

by Selvam Canagaratna

"Divine ordination is a very dangerous idea," wrote the late Howard Zinn in the 2005 Summer edition of a Boston Review article titled The Power and the Glory: Myths of America, "especially when combined with military power (the United States has 10,000 nuclear weapons, with military bases in a hundred different countries and warships on every sea). With God's approval, you need no human standard of morality."

That, indeed, is the state of mind which haunts America today, says historian Deepak Tripathi, adding: "While all eyes are on Newtown for a few days, killings continue around the US without much notice. Trigger-happiness is an instinct difficult to separate from the ease with which guns can be obtained. Their availability in America is in abundance, price is cheap, the reasons to possess them many. To show off as trophies, to hunt, to 'protect', to satisfy one's macho instinct; or because it is every American's right to carry arms. Such mindset is absolutist. Such faith in the superiority of culture, which feeds on the idea of 'American exceptionalism' that gives the United States a divine mission, is fatally flawed. For man cannot remain unaffected by what he does to fellow humans."

At this time of sorrow, said Tripathi, it would be most appropriate to also think of the many young and the innocent killed in America's foreign wars.

The savage school massacre also prompted another writer, Binoy Kampmark, to recall how the US had irretrievably immersed itself in its own 'indispensability': "When something is considered natural, it is bound to have been fictionalised to begin with," wrote Kaampmark in The Myth of American Uniqueness. "The debate on gun control in the United States is a case in point, the flipside of a fictionalised form of American exceptionalism." Gun control, according to its opponents, was not a viable proposition in the US, since its citizens had no concept of it. The gun, in short, was magical – it would find its way into the hands of those who wanted it.

The myth of American uniqueness has its nasty effects, both direct and incidental, wrote Kampmark. "In a society where the gun is a commodity fetish, an infused symbol of freedom on steroids, its advocates have argued themselves into paralysis. Steve Dulan, board member of the Michigan Coalition of Responsible Gun Owners is one such figure. He speaks with the cool reserve of a country gent on a rural shoot, a feature that makes the idea of having and using a gun prosaic.

"Perhaps this is less incomprehensible if one consults the forms of pleasure that constitute American pastimes. Las Vegas is not an excuse for anything but itself (do anything there, but leave it there), yet it is fitting to realise that one can use an AR-15, the weapon used in the Newtown massacre, in the complete comfort that one's homicidal fantasies are being confined."

Kampmark recalled Martin Patriquin writing about his accounts in the delusionary delights of his travels to Las Vegas in Macleans: "In Las Vegas, a city that lives on the promise of narco-pleasure, this was a close to a sure thing as you can get – for a nominal fee, put very real bullets into a fake Osama, over and over, as fast as your finger could manage."

"The temptation here is to ask what this proves?" queried Kampmark. "Fantasies of murder need not translate into actual records and tangible results. More to the point, the mistake here would be to regard such tendencies as natural, immutable and inevitable. The jump is an easy one to make. In the end, it is a false one."

Michael Moore, famed director-producer of Bowling for Columbine, which the BBC described as a 'double-barreled blast at American gun culture and the media', wrote: "I like to say that I sort of agree with the NRA when they say, 'Guns don't kill people, people kill people', except I would just modify that a bit and say, 'Guns don't kill people, Americans kill people', because that's what we do. We invade countries. We send drones in to kill civilians. We've got five wars going on right now where our soldiers are killing people – I mean, five that we know of.

"And then we have all the other forms of violence in this country that we don't really call violence. When you make sure that 50 million people don't have health insurance in your country and that 44,000 of them die a year from the lack of health insurance, that's a form of murder. When you evict millions of peoples from their homes – bank foreclosures – that's an act of violence. All the wrong people are in prison in this country." Moore noted that when millions of jobs were lost, resulting in ruined communities, it was the same as killing people; the alcoholism, the drug abuse, divorce, suicide, all the social problems that resulted from that act of violence – "but we don't call it violence, and no one's ever arrested for it – I think it's a real shame."

Todd S. Purdum, writing in Vanity Fair chose to look back a shade short of fifty years: "I can't help wondering if the bullets of Sandy Hook Elementary will be for Obama what the snarling dogs and high-pressure fire hoses of Birmingham, Alabama, were for John F. Kennedy in 1963: the human tragedy that will force him to take a political risk, simply because it is right.

"Those who do nothing are inviting shame, as well as violence," said Kennedy then. "Those who act boldly are recognizing right, as well as reality."

Not that Obama lacked political courage or been averse to all risk, conceded Purdum. "Overhauling health care was no walk in the park, and he paid a big price for his efforts. But ever since Bill Clinton lost Democratic control of Congress – and many members lost their seats – in the wake of the passage of the assault-weapons ban in 1994, Democrats, especially the pragmatic variety, of which Obama is certainly one, have been extremely wary of sitting on that hot stove a second time."

The 1994 law was no panacea; it was rife with loopholes and expired (by design) in 2004. But that law banned outright the sort of AR-15 semi-automatic rifle used in the Sandy Hook killings, while allowing equally destructive models to be sold. "Still, how haunting to think there was even a chance such a law could have made the difference. Australia has had better luck with the much stricter version of a ban on assault weapons that it imposed after a mass shooting in 1996, and it doubled down on the effort, spending $400 million to buy some 650,000 existing guns from their owners. Congress and the courts would seem unlikely to back any such law, and with more than 200 million guns in circulation here, any buy-back would be much more complicated and costly.

"Kennedy did not live to see his proposed civil-rights bill become law; that was left to Lyndon Johnson and a stunning bipartisan coalition in Congress. Is it too much to hope that Barack Obama will not only take the lead on combating this scourge, but succeed in seeing it checked?

Mused Purdum: "These dark and shortening days are a season of miracles, after all."





Pro-LTTE lobby push ahead with 'Boycott CHOGM' campaign

The 'Boycott CHOGM' campaign is in full swing in London with the pro-LTTE groups lobbying British MPs in their respective constituencies to lend active support, reports said.

Some British parliamentarians are openly involved with this campaign against Sri Lanka.

British MP for Mitcham and Morden, Siobhain McDonagh has already secured an adjournment debate on 'Sri Lanka and the United Nations' Responsibility to Protect'. It will focus on the findings and implications of the report released in November by the 'United Nations Secretary General's Internal Review on UN Actions in Sri Lanka'. This debate will be held in Westminster Hall on Tuesday (8) from 9.30-11.00 am at the British Parliament.British Tamils have also started to sign an e-petition requesting Prime Minister David Cameron to boycott the forthcoming Commonwealth Heads Of Government Meeting (CHOGM) to be held in Sri Lanka this year.

According to speculative reports, the Queen will not be attending the CHOGM. She will, most probably, be represented by Prince Charles. The British Prime Minister is also expected to attend the parley and so far no decision to the contrary has been announced.

The following is the text of the e-petition Tamil groups have initiated to undermine CHOGM:

Boycott CHOGM in Sri Lanka

Responsible department: Foreign and Commonwealth Office

"We the undersigned, call upon the Prime Minister to boycott the Commonwealth Heads Of Government Meeting (CHOGM) to be held in Sri Lanka in 2013.

"We ask him to abide by the recommendations of the fourth report of the Foreign Affairs Committee on The role and future of the Commonwealth that "continuing evidence of serious human rights abuses in Sri Lanka shows that the Commonwealth's decision to hold the 2013 Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting in Colombo was wrong.

"We are impressed by the clear and forthright stance taken by the Canadian Prime Minister, who has said he would attend the Meeting only if human rights were improved. The UK Prime Minister should publicly state his unwillingness to attend the meeting unless he receives convincing and independently-verified evidence of substantial and sustainable improvements in human and political rights in Sri Lanka".









Abans Service felicitates long standing employees

January 5, 2013, 6:06 pm

The New Year began with a memorable day at Abans Service. As the entire 800 strong workforce of Abans Service gathered to celebrate the New Year festivities on the 1st of January, Mrs. Aban Pestonjee – Chairperson of Abans announced the names of employees who had completed over 20 years of service at Abans and presented them with a plaque of special recognition and cash awards.

Presenting the awards, Mrs. Aban Pestonjee stated "I thank you all for working hard with enthusiasm and dedication everyday towards the success of Abans. I would like to especially thank these exemplary individuals who have been loyal to Abans for such a staggering period of time. Even though I may not find the time to appreciate your hard work each and every day or as often as I would like, I wish to remind you that I truly appreciate the long hours you have dedicated towards Abans."

The Chairperson of Abans further stated "Abans is committed to offer every possible assistance to those who work dedicatedly at Abans. Many of you have come a long journey from young school leavers to seasoned professionals in your field after two decades of commendable service. Abans Service is also ensuring that more and more newcomers to the company will be given a thorough training which will fast track them towards achieving their fullest potential and make them the best at what they do. More of you will be selected to train overseas in this coming year in order to infuse our company with the fruits of the knowledge & experience you gain"

The compere also caught up with some of the felicitated staff. Mrs. Sepalika Botheju, a 24-year veteran of Abans Service said "I have many happy memories at Abans Service. Over the years, I have turned down the chance to work elsewhere because the management has been very caring towards us"

"The single most important reason why I continue to serve at Abans Service is because of the humble, down-to-earth nature of its management and staff" said a beaming Mr. Lalith Gunawardene, who clearly has had many memorable days at Abans Service, throughout his 29 years at the company.





Arjun Fernando to succeed Fonseka at DFCC Bank

January 5, 2013, 7:24 pm

Arjun Fernando (53) has been selected by the Board of Directors to succeed Nihal Fonseka as Chief Executive of the DFCC Bank from 1 October 2013.

The appointment will be subject to receiving regulatory approval from the Central Bank of Sri Lanka with regard to the "fit and proper" criteria specified in the Banking Act, the bank said in a statement.

Arjun has been providing leadership and management oversight to the Bank's Operations & Administration, Planning, Human Resources, Technology and Corporate Communications functions and also served as a member of Management Committees since joining the DFCC. He is a career banker with 28 years of experience with HSBC in Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Hong Kong and has served in senior managerial positions in Corporate Banking, Trade Finance, Retail Banking and Operations.

He was the Chief Operating Officer of HSBC Sri Lanka from 2005-7 and Chief Technology and Services Officer of HSBC Bangladesh from 2007-10. His last assignment was as the Regional Head of Change Delivery (commercial banking, trade and supply chain), HSBC Asia Pacific, based in Hong Kong covering 22 countries.

Mr Fernando holds a B Sc Engineering degree from Southern Illinois University, USA and a M Sc in Management from Clemson University, South Carolina, USA. He is also an Associate of the Institute of Financial Studies (Chartered Institute of Bankers), UK. Mr Fernando is a former Sri Lanka national tennis champion, a gold medalist at the SAF Games in 1991 and captained the Sri Lanka Davis Cup team from 1983-90.





Rangana sturdy amid rueful rumours!

January 5, 2013, 7:10 pm

Rex Clementinereporting from Sydney

With the third Test hanging on the balance, with Sri Lanka required to take the remaining four first innings Australian wickets cheaply, left-arm spinner Rangana Herath had early dinner and was asleep by 10:00 p.m. His phone had been buzzing, but he didn't hear it. It was a call to his hotel room at about 2:30 a.m. from a team-mate that woke him up.

"I picked up the phone and Dilshan asked me, are you okay?' Herath said. "I said I am fine and then I was told about the rumour. I was told that Colombo was grieving my death," he added.

"I don't know form where this started, but it's disappointing. I was glad that my wife was with me. Otherwise she would have panicked. I immediately called my home and wife's home and said don't worry, nothing happened to me," Herath explained.

"There were several calls from thereon. I couldn't knock off the phone as people would have panicked had I done that. So I answered every call that came to my mobile and I knew once they hear my voice they would be fine," Herath said.

The tough man he is, the happenings back home didn't affect him as he finished with four wickets for 95 runs in the Test Match the following day, yesterday.





Buddhist religious ceremonies in Cairo and Alexandria

Under auspices of Sri Lankan mission

A two-day Buddhist religious ceremony was conducted in Cairo followed by a day service in Alexandria to invoke blessings on President Mahinda Rajapaksa and all Sri Lankans, recently.

The twin events were held under the patronage of Sri Lanka's Ambassador in Egypt, Sudantha Ganegama Arachchi in collaboration with the Sri Lanka Association in Cairo

Ven. Prof. Induragare Dhammaratana Thera, senior lecturer of the University of Kelaniya, conducted the religious ceremonies. Travel arrangements for the prelate was sponsored by the Sri Lanka Bureau of Foreign Employment at the request of the Embassy. The religious ceremony included Dhamma sermons and discourses, Dana and the observance of Sil.

A blood donation campaign was also organized parallel to the religious ceremony. Around 100 Sri Lankans donated blood at the Embassy premises. The enthusiastic donor participation in big numbers displayed the kindness and sincerity to the cause of humanity by Sri Lankans beyond the shores of their motherland.

Officials of the Egyptian National Blood Bank appreciated the generous response from Sri Lankans to the blood donation campaign, which they said was the first of its kind under the auspices of the Sri Lankan Embassy in Cairo.

Ven. Dhammaratana Thera said that donating blood is a great meritorious deed that can be performed in one's lifetime. Ambassador Sudantha Ganegama Arachchi thanked the Sri Lankan community for their support towards this event and especially the donors' generosity for the success of the blood donation campaign.

This campaign was one of the initiatives aimed at strengthening people-to-people contact and further improving relations between Egypt and Sri Lanka.





Friday Forum on the Divineguma Bill

January 5, 2013, 6:21 pm

The Divineguma Bill now before Parliament provides for the setting up of a new department called the Divineguma Development Department, the main object of which is the administration of a poverty alleviation programme. The Bill was challenged before the Supreme Court and the Court held that as much as fifteen clauses of the Bill dealt with matters enumerated in the Provincial Council List. Article 154G (3) of the Constitution requires every Bill in respect of any matter set out in the Provincial Council List to be referred by the President to every Provincial Council for the expression of its views before it is placed in the Order Paper of Parliament.

The Divineguma Bill had not been so referred to Provincial Councils and, as such, the Supreme Court held that the Bill could not become law unless so referred. As the Bill had been placed in the Order Paper without complying with Article 154G (3), the Court made no determination on the other grounds of challenge.

The Bill was then withdrawn and referred to the eight Provincial Councils which have been constituted and to the Governor of the Northern Provincial Council. All existing Provincial Councils agreed to the passing of the Bill. The Northern Provincial Council not being constituted yet, the Governor of that Province purported to express agreement to the passing of the Bill, on behalf of the Council.

The Bill was then placed in the Order Paper and was challenged before the Supreme Court. On the ground of challenge that the Bill has not been referred to all Provincial Councils and therefore could not have been placed in the Order Paper, the Supreme Court held that "every Provincial Council" must be interpreted to mean every Provincial Council that had been established and constituted. It follows from the decision of the Court that the Bill could therefore have been placed in the Order Paper.

Divineguma- Implications for Devolution

If the Divineguma Bill becomes law, many functions of Provincial Councils will be taken over by the Divineguma Development Department. Among the matters that the Supreme Court observed to have a co-relation to items in the Provincial Councils List are: implementation of provincial economic plans, rural development, food supply and distribution, construction activities, roads, bridges and ferries within a Province, rehabilitation of destitute persons and families, rehabilitation and welfare of physically, mentally and socially handicapped persons, market fairs, co-operatives, regulation of unincorporated societies and associations, agriculture, promotion and establishment of agricultural, industrial, commercial and trading enterprises and other income generating projects and relief for the disabled and unemployable. The Divineguma Development Department will become a super-department not only at the expense of other central government departments but Provincial Councils as well.

While programmes for poverty alleviation and guaranteeing social equity may be undertaken by the Centre, it is important that they be implemented without transgressing on the functional competences of Provincial Councils. In fact, Provincial Councils should be made implementing partners of such national programmes. We therefore call upon the Government to make suitable amendments to the Divineguma Bill to ensure that where functions relating to the programme envisaged are within the competence of Provincial Councils, such functions are carried out by the Provincial Councils and not the Divineguma Development Department. The Department would, of course, co?ordinate the implementation of such programmes by the Provincial Councils.

The Bill also provides for the setting up of Divineguma organizations at community, regional and district levels under the supervision of the Divineguma Department. The objects and powers of such organizations are mostly related to matters enumerated in the Provincial Council List. We therefore urge the Government to amend the Bill suitably so that Provincial Councils would not be denied of their functions under the Constitution.

An eleven-member Divineguma National Council is to be established to assist the Department in respect of the policy and management of divineguma development programmes. The Council will have no representation from Provincial Councils. We urge that the Council be expanded to include four nominees of the Chief Ministers' Conference.

The Supreme Court has held that several provisions of the Bill are inconsistent with the Constitution and suggested amendments to make the provisions consistent with the Constitution. We call upon the Government to amend those provisions as suggested by the Supreme Court rather than using the two-thirds majority it has to pass the provisions.

Imposing Divineguma on the Northern Province

Article 154 G (3) of the Constitution provides that where every Provincial Council agrees to the passing of a Bill on a matter in the Provincial Councils List, such Bill could be passed in Parliament by a simple majority. However, where one or more Councils do not agree to the passing of the Bill, such Bill must be passed by a two-thirds majority if the Bill is to become a law that is applicable to all nine Provinces. If passed only by a simple majority in Parliament, the Bill would become a law applicable only to the Provinces which had agreed to the Bill.

An important question that arose before the Supreme Court was whether the Governor of the Northern Province could have expressed agreement to the passing of the Bill on behalf of the Northern Provincial Council. On this issue, the Court held that the views of the Governor cannot be considered as the views of the Northern Provincial Council and as such, the Bill would be required to be passed by a two-thirds majority. What follows from the Court's determination is that if the Bill is not passed by a two-thirds majority, the Bill would not become a law applicable to the Northern Province.

Under Section 10 of the Provincial Councils Elections Act, the Commissioner of Elections is required to call for nominations within one week of the dissolution of a Provincial Council. However, in the case of the first election to a Provincial Council, the Commissioner could call for nominations only after the President gives him a direction to hold the election. Thus, the Northern Provincial Council has not been constituted only because of the President has not made such a direction. The President has, on more than one occasion, stated that the first election would be held in September 2013.

The importance of holding elections to the Northern Provincial Council need not be emphasized, especially when the Lessons Learnt and Reconciliation Commission (LLRC) appointed by the Government has stated that a political solution is imperative to address the causes of Sri Lanka's ethnic conflict and that there should be more devolution. Since the end of the separatist war in May 2009, presidential, parliamentary and local elections have been held in the Northern Province but not elections to the Northern Provincial Council.

In the above circumstances, we urge Parliament not impose the Divineguma Bill on the Northern Province by passing it with a two-thirds majority. The people of the Northern Province have not been able to express their views on the Bill through their Provincial Council only because no direction has been made to hold elections to that Council and it would be against the spirit of devolution to impose the Bill on the people of the Northern Province.

Friday Forum especially calls upon those political parties and Members of Parliament who believe in a political solution to the ethnic conflict and have been speaking out on the need to strengthen devolution not to be a part of a two-thirds majority that would impose the Divineguma Bill on the Northern Province and its people. Once the Northern Provincial Council is constituted, appropriate legislation could be brought to extend the new law to the Northern Province and the Northern Provincial Council given an opportunity to express its views on the Bill in the same manner in which the other Provincial Councils were given an opportunity.

In the post-war period, the Centre has found various means of weakening of the Provincial Councils, a good example being pressurizing them not to collect Business Turnover Tax in violation of their own statutes. Passing the Divineguma Bill in its present form and imposing it on the Northern Province would further weaken Provincial Councils and also have a negative effect on efforts at reconciliation.





"How soon!" some would say. "It's like only yesterday we celebrated the first of January 2012 and now we are in twenty thirteen!" others would chime. Yes, time speeds on and brings in new years all too fast. Most offices celebrated the new beginning either on the 1st or on the 2nd with kiributh and kavun – a very auspicious beginning. To a few January first was just another day. I had an argument with my son when I titled something I wrote 'Thirty first night' meaning the last day of a year. He said it should read 'New Year's eve'. I insisted we call the last day of a year the 31st, with its crackers and sparklers, revelry and dances, partying and getting really worked up in joy and anticipation as the old year dies giving way to the new on 31st midnight. To my son it was midnight on New Year's Eve and to substantiate it he quoted Christmas Eve – the tail end of 24th December.

Be that as it may we are well and truly launched on the new year of 2013. I watched on TV news a few opposition MPs stressing the last two digits and bringing in the 13th Amendment and hoping what's in it will be reinforced this year, so all ethnic groups are given justice and parity and drawn together. That we fervently wish for.

What Nan sees for herself is plain sailing with no great changes in the year that has dawned, except girding her financial loins even stronger to face increase in what she spends on day to day paltry living. Gas will go up in price; taxes imposed on every necessary item and for imported goods the tax being increased since the government has increased such taxes. These are conveniently passed on by retailers to consumers. So finally it's the ordinary person like you and I and the poor who bear the brunt of the government's attempt to cover losses.

Nan is totally afraid to fall ill. She will be entered in a hospital but there will be no medicines. These will have to be bought from outside. Even tests have to be done in private clinics and results brought to the hospital. But she cannot go to a nursing home having heard horrendous tales about the amount to be forked out – millions now.

Nan however sees a bleak future as a citizen of Sri Lanka, leaving much to be desired.

Disparity in what is

pontificated about and its reality

There are such yawning chasms between what is said by politicians and those at the height of power and what actually prevails. We are told we are citizens of a democratic country enjoying all freedoms and human rights and all that. We know full well where we are and what we suffer. We are told we are moving fast to be the hub of everything from information to development and industry to happiness. On Tuesday Jan. 1 we were told in both the print media and electronic that many projects have been awarded by the BOI to entrepreneurs who borrow from local banks and then vamoose, aided by politicians. That is the type of foreign investment Sri Lanka gets with local connivers helping - proves without doubt that the disease of personal advancement at the expense of the country is catching on fast and spreading violently. Only we the poor and honest remain poor and honest.

Nan also sees a stark contrast in the retention in remand prison of a couple of university students of the Jaffna University for lighting lamps on a Hindu festival and the velvet gloved treatment extended by the powers to KP. The students apprehended by army personnel who barged into the campus may have lit lights to remember those who lost their lives in the civil war. Life of an LTTEer is also a precious life lost due to the megalomania of the Supremo. Was this a sign of LTTE terrorism rising in the land? Not at all, people with sense and sensibility will declare. KP, one of the principal ruthless kingpins in the LTTE movement is permitted holding meetings on Jaffna; helicopters we hear given him for travel to the north. Isn't he a thousand times more incendiary than a couple of university students? We are so in need of genuine reconciliation.

Education in total

disarray

Nan's heart contracted and she actually shed a tear at the total disregard shown rural school goers. TV news had it that primary school children in Kundasale were given classrooms in a dilapidated building close to the river with fences broken which building had been closed due to the unfortunate previous drowning of a student. Pictures of well scrubbed, cleanly dressed children with ribbons in their hair and new bags slung on their little backs were juxtaposed against anthills near classrooms and a gruesomely filthy squatting plate lavatory. "My god," Nan said, "may seven bolts of lightening strike the accursed authorities in the education department, whether central or provincial who perpetrate such injustices." Then a person who had been a senior official in the Department of Education when education was prioritized and given a fair share of the budget, tells Nan that nursery schools have been closed with no prior notice being given. Parents when they brought the little ones to school for the first term of their first year of schooling were met with barred gates and the school closed. Can you imagine the feelings of the little ones who were looking forward to the first day of school with anticipation, a few with dread?

The blood boils to see such instances of sheer indifference to the needs of the needy. It most definitely is Lamborghini life styles to the powerful few and more than poverty and injustice to the badagini/papuwegini persons of the land.

I heard on the 31st night on TV news, MP Namal Rajapakse very earnestly proclaiming he was committed to improving the education system of the land. Then on Tuesday night at a local conference he said that the youth of the country are its life blood and the youth of this country would be given special attention: so very inspiring and touching and such nobility of purpose. But with the paltry amount of the country's resources given to the two most important sectors – health and education – how can his promises be realized? Instead Colombo will be beautified; very good and salutary but not at the expense of giving schools what they need and not closing down schools for want of money, nor boasting a free health service which is free only in taking people into hospitals but not being financially able to give them what they need.

A country for the rich and powerful

What Nan says is that Sri Lanka of today is for the rich privileged. She does not use the word 'few' here because the rich and privileged are vast in number and those who have power or bask in power are also in their hundreds. Just consider what we have spent on and concentrated on these last couple of months – car racing and keeping afloat Mihin Air which loses billions every year for the last how many years – eight? The CPC goes on from debt to bigger debt but not one of those who caused the vast losses has been even reprimanded, leave alone relieved of the wealth they have amassed or made to pay for willful cheating. Money guzzling 'Deyata Kirulla' exhibitions will be around the corner – of no benefit to the masses. Before we know where we are heading, we may be heading for outer space with a space station built in-house!

A sensible piece of advice was given by a politician on Wednesday 2nd. What he said was prorogue Parliament and concentrate on rehabilitation of the masses who have been left destitute by recent floods and landfalls. He suggested that all Members of Parliament and all government officials concentrate their efforts in rehabilitation and money be poured into this effort. Nan doubts very much any of these suggestions being accepted, acted on and relief brought very soon to the destitute simply because the poor of this country are dispensable, now that the country is only for the rich.

Even the ordinary person has changed. Taking Nan as an ordinary person, one example will prove this presumption. Where usually reports of an illness are heard with pity and hope that the illness will abate, Nan hearing that Hugo Chavez, dictator of Venezuela, was gravely ill felt not an iota of sympathy. The thought rather was malicious: he has to suffer for the highhanded leader he was, for his pride. Evil begets evil and one suffers for causing mass suffering. But she is not totally hardened. Nor has she cocooned herself with a carapace of indifference. She was deeply horrified on hearing about the gang rape in a moving bus in New Delhi, was one with the women led protests and then shed tears when she read the young student had died of the injuries so brutally inflicted on her. Many in our country shed tears hearing of this tragedy.

Nan voices the hope of very many women of this land, so beautiful but so badly treated, (the country and women both) that 2013 will see a definite change. The backbone of the nation – its peasant – given due attention and financial and other help; and all of us ordinary people able to live in peace and with prices of the necessities of life reduced so that each and every day is not a mighty struggle while seeing the privileged living extravagantly. And may some sincerity be present in what politicians spout out.

Nan ends with a quotation she came across:

"Courage!" the Old Year whispers as it ends,

"Weary is the world, and penitent and sad,

Waiting the touch to make all mankind friends –

Yours be the luck and strength to do it, Lad!'

Nan substitutes 'H E the President' for 'Lad' in that verse. It all depends on him – the President; the prices of goods; the stalling of the bad elements in his Cabinet and the country at large; acting prudently and cutting out all extravagance; stopping the witch hunt of the Chief Justice; and steering the country to peace where the different races and religions live in amity. All these and more are in his hands. May he act the statesman! A loud chorus of Amen is heard.





"Though there have been severe floods, the damage has been minimal as far as production activities are concerned," Jayasundera told reporters.

"All reservoirs are full. In my judgment water resources that we have been blessed with in the last few weeks is worth about two billion dollars if somebody wants to put a number on that."

He said about 70 percent of power was now hydro, tea and rubber production was good and the Maha (main) cultivation season would be "exceptional".

In 2012 Sri Lanka has had 4.5 months of drought, which in addition to hurting rice and tea production had also hit power generation, he said.

Sri Lanka entered 2012 amidst a severe balance of payments crisis after the state manipulated energy prices with bank loans which were in turn accommodated by central bank credit (printed money) through sterilized foreign exchange sales.

Corrective measures were taken in February 2012 with energy prices hiked, interest rates raised and the currency floated to reduce interventions and sterilized foreign exchange sales.

Jayasundera said the trade deficit and imports had reduced.

The exchange rate after falling to about 134 to the US dollar from 110 then improved to about 128 and again fell to below 130 rupees, which some analysts have attributed to large volumes of term auctions of money conducted by the monetary authority.

The exchange rate ended the year around 127.50 rupees, a depreciation of about 10 percent.

The monetary upheavals pushed Sri Lanka's inflation rose to 9.2 percent in 2012 compared to mid single digits the Central Bank has generated in previous years, but was still better than its record throughout the 1980s and early 1990s.

"Price stability has come due to the monetary and fiscal co-ordination that prevailed," Jayasundera said.

This year Sri Lanka is expected to post a budget deficit of about 6.2 to 6.3 percent of gross domestic product helped by 33 billion rupees of central bank profits or about half a percent of GDP.

Jayasundera said the external environment was also looking better with the US Congress having reached a fiscal deal and adjustments in some European countries seen to be having positive effects.

He said India's adjustments are taking place and China was "bouncing back".

Sri Lanka is expected to have grown by around 6.5 percent of GDP in 2012.

"We are approaching 2013 with an optimism of the economy bouncing back to 7.5 of GDP the Central Bank has already projected," Jayasundera said.

"We will not go into revisions at this stage, but when final numbers of the Central Bank come in. probably we will look at the benefits of favourable weather and the global recovery."





Lion sets up sister company to market premium imported liquor

Appointed exclusive distributor in SL for world's largest premium spirits firm

January 5, 2013, 6:00 pm

Lion Brewery (Ceylon) PLC has told shareholders in an interim report that it had been recently appointed exclusive distributor in Sri Lanka for Diageo PLC, the world's largest premium spirit company whose brands include Smirnoff vodka, Johnnie Walker Scotch whisky, Bailey's liquor and Guinness stout.

"Diageo sells its brands in over 180 countries across the world. Whilst Lion Brewery will be responsible for the supply chain of these brands in Sri Lanka, all marketing activities will be carried out via a newly formed sister company, Luxury Brands (Pvt) Limited," Lion said.

Lion has posted a pre-tax profit of Rs.942 million and an after-tax profit of Rs.628 million for the first half of the current financial year ending September 30, 2012 on a turnover of Rs.10.5 billion according to an interim statement now with shareholders.

The company has contributed Rs.6.4 billion to government coffers during the period under review, an increase of 50% (Rs.2.1 billion) in comparison to the previous period. The company has said that excise duties on beer had been effectively increased twice during the current financial year – first on April 1 and thereafter in October with the combined increases ranging between 15 to 18%.

Lion as at Sept. 30, 2012, had a stated capital of Rs.2.54 billion, capital reserves of Rs.722.1 million and retained earnings of 2.23 billion in its books with total assets running at Rs.12.54 billion and total liabilities at Rs.7.05 billion.

Net assets per ordinary share had grown to Rs.68.60 as at September 30 from Rs.62.31 a year earlier.





A Labour of Love

January 5, 2013, 5:20 pm

By Randima Attygalle

Palabedda was a peaceful little village where the people were nice and friendly. There was a fox living in the adjoining forest. He gave the village folk an anxious time. He crept out into the village at night to steal chickens. When the farmers heard the chicken cackle they would chase away the fox saying, "Ho! hitu! hitu!' meaning, 'just you wait!'. This 'Ho! hitu! hitu!' was repeated many times that it began to be heard like 'Hoity!' Soon everyone started calling the fox 'Hoity'..... Thus narrates Sybil Wettasinghe or Sybil nenda as she is fondly referred to by several generations, her world famous children's story 'Hoity the Fox' (Hoity nam hiwala)

Fox, the famous trickster in children's literature, is tricked by three gama hamines in Sybil's narration, making Hoity the Fox one-of-a-kind piece of children's writing. Spun out of her own imagination, initially as a little gambit to feed rice to her own six-year-old son long years ago, the plot was enthusiastically received by the Fuknuinkan Shoten Publishers in Japan in 1994. Following year Hoity the Fox won an award in Japan for Cultural Material of Child Welfare. Winner of the State Literary Award 2008 for Best Children's Book, 'Hoity the Fox' has been translated into several languages.

Hoity's long journey

Moving away from Palabedda, Hoity has seen quite a bit of the world. So much so, his humiliation clad in the pink saree of the newly married Rungo Hami (one of the three clever gama hamines) is made public today and the glory of the three clever gama hamines whose home-made delicacies drive Hoity to give up chicken hunting, is immortalized in the reception area to the operating theatre of the Lady Ridgeway Hospital for Children (LRH)! You may wonder how? If one finds the pranks of Hoity and the tricks of gama hamines amusing, so is the story behind this colourful narration finding its way to the LRH premises.

"During my tenure as the President of the British School Community Council (for 2009/10) which is the Parent-Teacher Association of the school, we raised funds for LRH in June 2010 through our annual dinner dance. Having raised the funds we asked some of the doctors at LRH the best means of channeling them and we were told that the funds could be used to redevelop the reception area to the operating theatre," recalled Dr. Niranjan Abeyratne, a parent of the British School and an Attorney-at-Law by profession.

As Dr. Ratnasiri Hewage, Director, LRH told Sunday Island, the redevelopment project which comes under the purview of the 'Child Friendly Lady Ridgeway 2020 Project' is in line with the vision and the strategies of the same. "This project which is one of the components of the Child Friendly Lady Ridgeway 2020 Project, aspires to endorse the validity of its vision - to become the best children's hospital in Asia within this decade, deploying the strategies of providing best possible medical care in Asia, creating a child friendly environment and improving the communication skills," he explained.

A complete face lift

The nature of the original layout of the waiting area was such that it was just adjacent to the exit from the recovery room, thus exposing children awaiting surgery and their parents to the children being wheeled out of the recovery room, often in a semiconscious state. "This often inflicted lot of trauma on children awaiting surgery as well as anxious parents. Therefore we felt that it was a essential to separate these two entrances and also give a complete face-lift to the reception area in order to make it more child-friendly," explained Dr. Chandima Suriyarachchi, Consultant Paediatric Surgeon, LRH.

The newly built waiting area, was designed by the Architect Rukshan Widyalankara and expertise of a suitable contractor who could take up the challenge of refurbishing with the minimal impact on the operating theatre was sought. This was a Herculean task. "We anticipated that dust might be a problem, and hence we sought assurances from prospective contractors that the sterile environment of the operating theatre would not become contaminated during the refurbishment. Many contractors whom we spoke to were either reluctant to take on the project or were very expensive. Hence we were unable to find a contractor at a reasonable price until Hiran Thilakaratne, a parent of the British School and the proprietor of Total Project Management Systems (Pvt) Ltd stepped forward in January this year and undertook the project," Abeyratne said.

The redevelopment project which was a successful private-public partnership was made a reality thanks to the generous donors which included numerous individuals as well as organizations, both local and overseas. "The Director LRH, Dr. Hewage, Consultant Paediatric Surgeon, Dr. Suriyarachchi and Theatre Sisters Lakshmi De Abrew and Kumudu were very supportive throughout the project and we are grateful to them for their unfailing good humour and kindness," added Abeyratne. With the idea of celebrating the Sri Lankan idiom in child-friendly art, the project team headed by Abeyratne approached Sybil Wettasinghe.

"We were very fortunate that she kindly agreed to allow us to access all her art work completely free of charge to decorate the reception and waiting room. It is incredibly generous for an author to give third parties like us such freedom and we hope that we have done justice to her vibrant illustrations from 'Hoity the Fox', which was our ultimate choice for LRH," Abeyratne said.

A rewarding experience

The eventful journey of Hoity from the hamlet of Palabedda to LRH was no easy one, taking almost two years, yet rewarding, when seeing how the story adorning the walls and the doors of the lift to the waiting area of the operating theatre, keep young children awaiting surgery amused and distracted. The artwork for the graphics by Sign Tech has indeed done justice to the author's illustrations, making the beholder lost in the world of Hoity the Fox, complemented by bulath heppuwa, hiramanya, vee bissa and peduru, personifying everyday things in a Lankan village, brought vividly to life by that unmistakable Sybil mastery. She said it all in just 10 words, "I feel I'd live here for ever through this endeavour," encapsulate the rewarding experience. "This is the best thing I ever did in my life and it's the best contribution I ever made to children. The fact that Hoity the Fox is one of my personal favourites, makes it doubly rewarding. I feel truly honoured," Sybil nenda told us with a smile.

The present waiting area which greets a visitor is a far cry to what it had before the redevelopment project. With Hoity the Fox's narration and illustrations adorning the walls, comfortable sitting facilities, a toy corner and a TV, provide optimum comfort in the air-conditioned waiting area to children awaiting surgery and their anxious parents.

For 12-year-old Kavinda Madushanka from Kottawa, awaiting orthopedic surgery, Hoity the Fox is first time exposure to the work of Sybil nenda. He shyly told us that he finds the illustrations incredibly colorful and amusing, urging him to read some more books of Sybil nenda once he returns home after surgery. Wishing Kavinda speedy recovery, we turned to a mother from Akuressa comforting her little son awaiting a bronchoscopy. "I can't believe that this is the same waiting area we used to be in. Today it's such a pleasant place with lot of comfort and colour," For Shiromi from Kalubowila, a young mother of five-year-old Chathuranga, the redeveloped waiting area is indeed a solace. "This has helped lessen the fear and anxiety of young children, momentarily getting lost in the colourful world of illustrations. The clinical feeling of the place is reduced to a large extent," she said.

Justifying the words of the parents, Theatre Sister Lakshmi de Abrew told us that the children are less-stressed in the refurbished waiting area. "Children who arrive here are naturally restless since they are fasting and the refurbished waiting area has helped mothers to keep the children distracted. Today the waiting area is more comfortable and the illustrations on the wall are a lovely way of enabling the young children to relate to the story."

While being lost in the world of Hoity and at the same time being privy to the silent enduring of mothers and fathers, myriad emotions etched in their faces, the truth of Lord Buddha's words -'thousands of candles can be lit from a single candle and the life of the candle will not be shortened. Happiness never decreased by being shared,' dawned upon me....





