The government has accepted the ward system for local government elections as a policy and decided to reintroduce the First Past the Post System on a Memorandum by the Local Government and Provincial Councils Ministry.

The decision follows approval by the Cabinet of Ministers on Wednesday.

A Memorandum submitted by the Public Administration and Home Affairs Ministry to extend the term of the Delimiting Committee established to investigate numerous problems with respect to Divisional Secretary Divisions and Grama Niladhari Divisions also received Cabinet approval.

The decision was taken after considering practical difficulties that had arisen in addressing issues raised by civil organizations and also by the process of resettlement underway in the North and East,the Ministry said.

Among the other proposals that were approved was the Draft on the Law on Occupational Safety and Health submitted by the Labour Relations and Manpower Ministry.

It seeks to develop new legislation that would ensure safety and health in all workplaces including plantations,shops, offices, building construction sites, and in the informal sector where around sixty per cent of the work force is employed.

The Ministry said that it had consulted the National Labour Advisory Council and also drew technical support from the ILO with a view to addressing shortcomings in the present legislation.

Cabinet also approved a Memorandum by Foreign Minister Rohitha Bogollagama to establish diplomatic relations with the Republic of Paraguay.

Bogollagama, said that although there was no significant political interaction between Sri Lanka and Paraguay the two countries cooperate in a variety of international organizations.

"Paraguay belongs to the Organization of American States, the Latin American Integration Association, the Rio Group, Interpol and MERCOSUR (The Southern Cone Common Market), the Community of Democracies, the G-77 and is an observer state of the Non Aligned Movement.Establishing diplomatic relations would benefit Sri Lanka in terms of enhancing support for its candidatures in international organizations,including those in the United Nations system." (ZJ)





