Contrary to popular belief that Sri Lanka are the underdogs in the tri-nation Commonwealth Bank Cricket Series in Australia, Sri Lanka's vice-captain Kumar Sangakkara says his team goes out to the middle to win every game they play. World champions Australia are a strong force both home and away while India have been an improved side in the four match Test series that's currently underway down under. The wicketkeeper batsman insisted that the Sri Lankans will play every game in a positive frame of mind.

"The conception of the underdog is something that people looking at things from the outside come up with. When we go out to the middle, we want to win every game we play. We do the best we can and in our minds, we don't start as underdogs. If the opposition players thinks so, so be it. People can underestimate us and that will work in our favour," the 30-year-old told 'The Island' just before the team left for Sydney Thursday morning.

Sangakkara was Sri Lanka's best batsman during the two match Test series in Australia. He missed the first Test match at the Gabba due to injury and in the second game, hit 57 and 192 and looked set for a massive double hundred before being wrongly given out by umpire Rudi Koertzen, with Ricky Ponting raising concerns again by claiming the catch.

"Form is something that you can always ignore. The important thing is to work hard to make sure that you are very well prepared. Whether I scored runs or not, I have had the same work ethic and I have been working as hard as I can to be the best I can."

"Obviously the confidence is very high. After the series against Australia, we had a good series against England and then a very good inter-provincial tournament. The players know their responsibilities on a difficult tour like this. We need to put the thought of this being a tough tour behind us, and work hard to get physically and mentally strong to last the tour," Sangakkara said.

He also welcomed the return of his Kandurata teammate Chamara Kapugedara, who did really well in the Provincial Tournament. "His presence is a very positive thing for Sri Lankan cricket. I have seen so many players coming in for a tour or two and then disappearing and they would be never seen again. Chamara was picked very early in his career and then dropped and now he has worked hard to get back into the team. That's the way it should be. He was fantastic in the Provincial Tournament for us. It's time that he goes to Australia with confidence that he's the best player to be in that spot," Sangakkara added.

He was also surprised with the way Australia handled the Harbhajan Singh issue during the Sydney Test and the events that unfolded afterwards. "It's been quite a surprise. Some semblance of sanity has returned, eventually. As long as players and officials take responsibility, it's good for the game, teams and for the spectators. That's the way cricket should move forward and I am happy that everyone has put things behind them," he added.





