Nine VIPs from Singapore were on holiday in Sri Lanka "a land like no other",last week.

A Sri Lanka Tourism Promotion Bureau (SLTPB) spokesperson said that the VIPs arrived in Sri Lanka to be pleasantly surprised by the country's rich cultural diversity and returned to their countries of residence hoping to visit again.

The nine member group included ambassador to Singapore Patricia Herbold, ambassador for USA Andrey Rozhakov, ambassador for Russia,Jose Arturo Montoya Stuva, ambassador for Peru Elina M. Iwatake and Head of Commercial, BT Global Services Kristin Paulson.Their visit was facilitated by SLTPB, and organized by Sri Lanka High Commissioner in Singapore, Shehan Ratnavale.

The tour to Sri Lanka by the diplomats, their spouses and other dignitaries was made possible when the High Commissioner for Sri Lanka initiated the tour and made it a dream come true trip for them.

"This is my first trip to Sri Lanka and I have not been to India or Pakistan which are bigger countries than you little land," said Ambassador for Russia , Andrey Rozhkov and Elina Rozhkov."

"We were awe-stricken when we visited the Temple of the Tooth Relic. We have not seen a Buddhist Shrine or a Dagaba and most of what we saw here were for the first time in our lives," the Ambassador said, all in smiles. He continued, "Russia is full of churches, snow with little sunshine, and defence personnel everywhere like here, but Sri Lanka is so colourful with beautiful beaches, green everywhere and the most outstanding was the visit to Dalada Maligawa inner-most sanctum and I count it a great privilege and honoured to receive the blessings at the Sacred place.

"Yes, we know that the Russians are told about travel advisory but I saw many foreigners and Russians in particular, all having a whale of a time. It's true that the country has some problems but nobody can stop foreigners coming to Sri Lanka , and here we are! Nobody stopped us from coming. I will be coming again because five days just flew in a jiffy and there is much to see," he continued.

The contingent had been shopping, by and large, and was happy to meet many Sri Lankans who are very warm and energetic, as the Ambassador admits. "We heard that Sri Lanka was like Singapore in the 60s and Sri Lankans should take initiative to develop the roads, and be advanced in technology," he added.

The Russian Ambassador and his wife who are proud parents of two girls and grandparents of two girls, love spicy food, especially hot curries. "We are going back with beautiful memories of Sri Lanka , not missing the tea and spices in our baggage.

The Peruvian Ambassador, Jose Arturo Montoya Stuva and Montoya, were very excited about their trip too. "The Temple of the Tooth Relic is really a beautiful place to visit. We are happy to make the choice of coming here. We were marveled to see the Sigiriya Rock and the ruins on top. We wanted to come here long back but finally we made it! The Ambassador and his spouse are proud parents of twins; a girl and a boy have plans to visit Sri Lanka . "We are looking forward to that day," they said.

Elina M. Iwatake, Head of Commercial, BT Global Services had to say this: " Like the rest in the team, I was moved when I was blessed and tied the "Pirith Noola" at Dalada Maligawa. We heard of the travel advisory, but we were told the problems are in the North and East. Obviously, we had to only avoid traveling to those places and be in the safe areas, which we did and enjoyed the tour relaxingly," said Iwatake and her mother who accompanied her.

The US Ambassador to Singapore , Patricia Herbold said that most of the places where she had visited during the tour were not heard of. "I was taken in to many surprises when I heard for the first time of the elephant orphanage at Pinnawela and the Temple of the Tooth Relic," she said.

Talking about the present situation in the country, she said, "It is true, we hear only negative stories about Sri Lanka these days, but I must say, after coming here, I realized there are more positive stories than negative stories on Sri Lanka . We also thought twice before coming here but we were given the proper picture and advised before we came. It was great to visit Galle Fort, the ramparts, Kandy , Sigiriya, turtle hatchery, to name a few, and certainly, would like to come to Sri Lanka again," she added.

Her only advice to people who want to travel to Sri Lanka is, "Get the proper information before planning the trip, make your own decision and don't take negative stories into account," she said smilingly.

The High Commissioner for Sri Lanka , Shehan Ratnavale, who had been busy making all arrangements for the contingent he brought to his motherland, said, "I am happy that everything went as planned. I am privileged to bring them here on January 18th amidst security concern. It had given them a positive perception about the country and such trips and visit will definitely a boost to investment, to strengthen ties and economic. We missed only two of them who were unable to make it due to various reasons but there will be more such tours that I will be working on because problems here is not tourism related and hotels and foreigners are never had been targets," he added.





