Loadstar Pvt Ltd came into existence in 1984 as a joint venture between the Jinasena Group in Sri Lanka and Solideal of Belgium. Today it is a world leader in market performance with a 20% market share. The Solideal distribution network-covers 60 locations in 20 countries. It's prestigious clientele includes Caterpillar, Fiat, Yale, Komatsu etc. The company has added some new products namely Rims, which are produced in a Rs. 150 million metal working plant and a Rs 250 million plant acquired from Japan. It is also one of the five manufacturers in the world which possesses the technology to manufacture Tracks which is another new product and Giant Construction Tyres, which can only be manufactured by manual methods, and are very costly due to high labour inputs. Industrial Trailers, Skid Steer Loaders, Dumper Tracks and Backhoe Loaders are their other products. These products are manufactured in the fully automated, state of the art mixing plant, which is the only one of its kind in the country.

In 1998 a most technologically advanced and largest tyre production plant was commissioned in Midigama which encompasses a rubber plantation and all worker facilities.

This Central Mixing Plant has a capacity to produce 120 tons a day at present and a major expansion is underway at a cos of USD 1.5 million to increase this capacity up to 180 tons per day. The global mixing capacity will increase up to 290 tons a day under this expansion project. With the construction of tyre curing presses, the company will be able to produce ten tons of very large Tracks (24"-30") per day. Loadstar will be the second largest Track manufacturer in the world behind Bridgestone with the installation of the Track Iine which is underway.

The company has a very strong presence in the replacement tyre market which is very stable and is not usually affected by economic fluctuations, "a loyal and worldwide dealership net work has been established through many years of trust and relationship building" Dr. Jinasena said. His highly skilled dedicated work force is given continuous specialized training. Availability of local raw materials, ability to fabricate some company machinery in house with the most advanced engineers in the country, strong marketing arm with foreign partnership and an R&D unit, are the other strengths of the company.

The company also consumes sixty per cent of RSS grade rubber produced in Sri Lanka which is a great achievement for the country. The methodical island wide collection system of rubber benefits small holders and enables them to get a better price for their produce. The company imports 15% of its requirements of rubber at present.

Another significant feature at Loadstar is that there is no trade union. The workforce of 7500 has felt that they do not need one because they can approach their boss at anytime. 'Any of my employees can walk into my office at any time with their problems Even when I visit the factory I am prepared to do any work that they are doing. They know that I look after them well even when they have a personal problem . As a result they come forward with proposals to improve the company more often than bringing problems" Dr. Jinasena' said His way of treating the human being would have made this difference.

Among the other achievements of the company are ISO 9000 and ISO 14001 certifications, Industrial Safety Award, National HRM Award for Best HR practices in different years. It has also been awarded the Green Channel facility by the BOI.





