Post Master General (PMG) M. K. B. Dissanayake yesterday said that the Elections Department handed over 3,408,192 Official Polling cards of those eligible to cast their votes at the February (14) elections to the Central and northwestern Provinces yesterday. They would be distributed by special delivery on February (1).

Action had been taken for speedy delivery of Insured Postal Marking packets to facilitate the Security Forces and Police personnel to mark their votes on January (28 and 29) and public Servants on February (2 and 3), 2009.

Additional Commissioner of Elections ( Provincial and local) W. P. Sumanasiri said yesterday that the training of several thousand Senior Presiding Officers and Junior Presiding Officers commenced in all the five districts of Kandy, Matale, Nuwara Eliya, Kurunegala and Puttalam yesterday.

All polling cards would carry the National Identity Card (NIC) number of each and every voter.

Assistant commissioner of Elections for the District of Kurunegala R. N. A. L. Ratnayake said yesterday that training commenced for 200 Senior Presiding Officers at the divisional secretariat at Kuliyapitiya yesterday.

The Assistant Commissioner of elections for the district of Puttalam A. O. M. Nafeel said that training had commenced for 85 Junior presiding Officers at Sudasuna auditorium at Chilaw yesterday.

He said that another 4500 officials would be trained by Assistant Commissioner of Elections for the district of Anuradhapura S. M. Bandusena and several other training classes were scheduled to be held at Sudampaya auditorium in Anamaduwa and Sudasuna auditorium at Chilaw.

He said that the Assistant Commissioner of Elections for the district of Matara Suneth Lochana would train 4000 Junior Presiding Officers during the week.

Ratnayake said that training would take place at the district secretariat at Kurunegala and Divisional secretariats of Mahawa and Wariyapola.

Assistant commissioner of elections for the district of Matale G. D. N. de Silva said that classes for around 90 Senior Presiding Officers were commenced at Matale municipal council yesterday.

He said that the assistant commissioner of elections for the district of Amparai Mapa Bandara was training 2000 Junior presiding Officers.





