Opening the debate on the extension of the State of Emergency in Parliament yesterday (8), Prime Minister Ratnasiri Wickramanayake said the government did not recognize the LTTE as the sole representative of the Tamil people. They had persisted in continuing their acts of terrorism and the government was not prepared to allow it to continue with this state of affairs.

The Ceasefire Agreement with the LTTE was abrogated by the government as the LTTE had violated it thousands of times with their acts of terrorism, disregarding it from the very beginning and throughout its existence. For the past five years, it was a one-sided agreement that the LTTE had violated. Therefore the government had decided to abrogate the CFA and put and end to terrorism.

He said he was informed that the Minister of Nation Building D. M. Dassanayake had been injured in an explosion at Wattala while he was on his way to Parliament.

During the past several months, the security forces had taken the initiative to successfully repulse attacks of the LTTE and curb their acts of terrorism. The initiative was now with the armed forces and the government will pursue action against the terrorists relentlessly. Since the country had to be rid of the terrorist threat that had been growing like a cancer for the past three decades, it was imperative that the armed forces should be given the support of Parliament to carry forward their task successfully. Therefore, he said, he requested all members of the House to vote for the motion to extend the emergency.

Lakshman Seneviratne UNP Badulla District said the government was totally responsible for the assassination of member T. Maheswaran. His security was reduced after the vote on the Budget in December, though he had repeatedly requested the authorities to provide him with adequate security as there were death threats against him. He was the first UNP member returned from the Jaffna District since 1952 and was a vociferous critic of the government, especially with regard to disappearances and abductions. Therefore the government had to take the responsibility for the assassination.

He said the UNP had no faith in the government nor in the steps it was taking under the emergency. Therefore the UNP has decided to abstain from voting for the extension of the emergency.

Minister of Urban Development and Sacred Area Development Dinesh Gunawardena said the LTTE was keeping the Tamil people of the North and East under the jackboot of an armed terrorist group, but those people wanted a free and democratic form of government. They were not free to make any decision as they were oppressed by the LTTE. Tamil civilians living in the North want to come into the government administered areas and live as free people, but the terrorists are preventing them from doing so.

The Opposition at one time in Parliament was questioning the government as to why so much security was needed by ministers and parliamentarians. They went to the extent of asking why a number of security vehicles and security officers were needed for the members. But today they are asking why the security of some members had been reduced as it is now proved that even with the security provided, terrorists could attack anyone, he said.

Dinesh Gunawardena said he had to bring up the question of admission of children to grade I in schools today as it had become a pressing problem to thousands of parents who had found even when they were living next door to certain schools their children had not been admitted. Although it was not a matter connected to extension of the state of emergency he had to take it up as a matter of public importance. The whole problem was the new circular on admission that had created problems for parents especially in the Colombo District which he represented and the House should take concerted action to redress the problem created by the new circular on admission to children to grade I in schools in the current year.

Deputy Minister of Sports M. S. Sellasamy said the armed conflict in the North was claiming the lives of people in the country and as the year was beginning, three incidents of violence were reported and one had claimed the life of member T. Maheswaran. The next was an attack on an Army bus at Slave Island claiming the lives of a number of people including civilians and now the sad news about the death of Minister D. M. Dasanayaka has come to the House.

He said it was necessary to stop the armed conflict and settle the problem through talks and not by war. The emergency was becoming meaningless as people were being killed or injured and therefore whether to vote for the extension of the emergency or not was becoming a problem.

S. Gajendaran (TNA) Jaffna District said the armed conflict had claimed the lives of a large number of Tamil people of the North and East and also others except after the Ceasefire Agreement was signed. In the areas where the armed forces had taken control the Tamil civilians are living under the oppression of the forces and are asked to give details of all their family members even about those living abroad.

Chief Opposition Whip Joseph Michael Perera said a number of parliamentarians were seen entering the Parliamentary premises with their armed escort vehicles and bodyguards carrying arms. This was a very dangerous trend as the security of the members should be under the purview of the Speaker and the parliamentary police should be functioning under the orders of the Speaker as the police force of the parliament. Therefore, the Speaker should look into the problem and prevent any threats to parliamentarians who come to attend the meetings of Parliament.

Johnston Fernando (UNP) Kurunegala District said that the death of two parliamentarians in the first few days of the New Year showed that the government was not able to protect the lives of parliamentarians with all the provisions of the emergency available to prevent such killings. Therefore, the government should admit that it was not able to bring the worsening situation in the country under control.





