It was not the President who was responsible for the moribund Independent Commissions or for not appointing the Constitutional Council but the legislature itself, Constitutional Affairs Minister Dew Gunasekera told Parliament yesterday.

Minister Gunasekera, speaking during the debate on the motion to increase the remuneration, salaries and allowances of the members of the Independent Commissions, said: "The Parliament failed to appoint the Commissions. There is no consensus in the House on the minor party representative to the Constitutional Council. The President had to intervene in such a context and now everybody points their fingers at him. None but the Parliament itself is responsible for this stagnation and lagging behind."

He said the root cause of the current impasse was the haste many had to bring in the 17th Amendment to the Constitution and to pass it. "Today there is a crisis. We should learn from this and never allow such moves that could lead to anarchy. Those who shout that there is no democracy without the full implementation of the 17th Amendment have put their signatures against the Independent Police Commission."

Prime Minister Ratnasiri Wickremanayake, moving the motion seeking the increases of remuneration and other allowances for the members of the Public Service Commission, Education Service Commission, National Police Commission, Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption and the Human Rights Commission said: "The Supreme Court has ordered that the Leader of Opposition, The Speaker and I sit together and reach consensus on the appointment of members to the Constitutional Council. The nomination from the minor parties had become a stagnating issue. These situations have led to further disarray."

JVP Parliamentary Group Leader Anura Kumara Dissanayake: "We have the right to nominate the minor party representative to the Constitutional Council. If our nomination is not acceptable we can nominate an alternative name. But I want to know what right others have to judge suitability of the nominee of the minor parties."

Speaker W. J. M. Lokubandara: "You should ask the Supreme Court."

Prime Minister Wickremanayake: "We mediated and got involved in this exercise in good faith. We genuinely wanted to sort out the chaos."

Chief Opposition Whip Joseph Michael Perera: "Mr Mayadunne's name was nominated by the JVP as the minor party representative in the Council. Mr. Mayadunne had said that he would not accept the position till he had his name cleared of some allegations, whether they were true or false, against him. This matter could be sorted out by the Public Accounts Committee. We are against the increase of salaries of these Commissions' chairmen. They have been appointed by the President. How can you say that there is an Independent Elections Commission, for example. There are accusations that the UPFA candidates are given the power to select polling centre officials for the forthcoming polls."

Education Minister Susil Premjayantha: "Do not raise wild allegations. Such things can never happen. Do not utter falsehoods to mislead the country."

Chief Opposition Whip Joseph Michael Perera: "Do not preach how to conduct elections, you cannot even conduct the GCE Ordinary Level exam properly. These Commissions are not independent. Their members are political appointees."

UNP Kandy District MP Lakshman Kiriella: "We believed in the inclusion of checks and balances into this system. That was why we voted for that. Now the situation had changed for the otherwise. The Government has taken all powers of these Commissions into its hands by appointing its people."

National Freedom Front MP Piyasiri Wijenayake: "if somebody says these Commissions are not politicized that is a lie. The appointees have political ideology and they are known for their political leanings. The Commissions are politicized from the inception. Government appoints persons it wants because only they are capable of carrying out the government's agenda. How if we replace the incumbent Defence Secretary with a UNP nominee? Could we ever win the battle against LTTE with their nominees? Likewise, the government in power has the right to appoint capable people for the posts it wants. "

"The Independent Commissions must be brought under the purview of Parliament. Parliament is the supreme body responsible to the people. These bodies are not accountable to the people. They must be made answerable to Parliament. We support the Government's motion to increase the wages and allowances of Commission members," MP Wijenayake said.





