Depreciation of the exchange rate in terms of annual average has been a continuous process though there has been an ephemeral reversal due to extraordinary influx of the loan of $ 500 million and increased worker remittance. Therefore, the dollar value has slid from Rs. 114 from October 2007 to $ 110 by the end of December 2007. If by any chance – in all probability it would – it will be an issue for concern. For example, it was Rs./US$ 40.06 in 2002, 100.50 in 2005 and 107.71 in 2006. Up to September 18, 2007, it was Rs. 113 and on September 19, 2007, it shot up to Rs. 114.7 and since then until the end of October 2007, it has been moving slightly upwards and downwards. Nevertheless, since end October, the dollar value has been sliding gradually and as at end December 2007, the buying rate of the dollar has stood around Rs. 109.

The Governor of the Central Bank once said that the exchange rate has been depreciating according to the plan of the Bank. What is this plan? Thereafter, the Bank said in response to further depreciation of the rupee that this trend was of temporary character, given the external financial scenario of the country (particularly in the fields of noticeable export growth, decline in imports and continued surplus in the balance of payments), and that this depreciation was 'unwarranted'. Nevertheless, it seems that the depreciation of the rate of exchange has temporarily reduced and it appreciated a little due to the beginning of the inflow of the installments of the loan of US $ 500, thereby floating it around Rs 109 as of now.

One would even take objection to the word 'management' given in the above caption as the Central Bank introduced the floating rate system in January 2001 by refraining from announcing exchange rates (Sri Lanka rupee vis-à-vis other main foreign currencies) allowing the market forces to determine the exchange rates. Consequent upon the floating of the exchange rate in 2001, the present writer wrote an article entitled "Central Bank Governor Should Resign!" in The Weekend Express of February 4, 2001, page 6, criticising the manner by which the issue of the exchange rate valuation was handled by the Bank.

This article was one of the series of 'weekend reminiscences' which he wrote on economic issues of the country on a weekly basis. The chief editor of the newspaper was not a 'babe' in the profession of journalism and he would not have published it unless it deserved. Having seen this article, the then Governor of the Central Bank has, while finding fault with the management of the newspaper for publishing an article of this nature, persuaded the proprietor of the newspaper group – using his office that commanded a lot of respect and influence – not to publish any of his articles thereafter to which he succumbed. The chief editor himself told him of this incident. Publication of this newspaper also folded up a few weeks later.

The reader would find how vulnerable is a writer when he tries to swim against the waves. He does not wish to get into hot water again but this would no doubt happen if he has to analyse an economic issue without partisan.

The line of argument against the Bank adduced at that time was that it has allowed the Sri Lanka rupee to depreciate sharply causing cascading effects on the cost of living and saying that if this trend were allowed to continue unabated, the rupee value vis-à-vis the dollar would go up to a high level of Rs. 150 in no time.

This article entailed two effects, one being the Central Bank, attempting to soft-pedal the issue, was trying to make the rate below Rs 100 despite announcement of the floating mechanism. In other words, Central Bank had to monkey with the rate to avoid any wrath being hurled at it. The other effect was the action purported to have been taken by the then Governor. Since the present writer used to contribute articles to this Sunday weekly on a regular

basis on an invitation extended to him by the Chief Editor, out of courtesy to the present writer, he did not mind accommodating his articles thereafter provided he wrote them under a pseudonym but the present writer declined to do so.

To go back into the history of the exchange rate in nutshell, widening of the margin within which the rates could be changed began in August, 1971 upon suspension of convertibility of the dollar to gold and other reserve assets. As a result, the International Monetary Fund adopted a decision by which the member countries were permitted to move their exchange rates against their intervention currencies within margins of 2 1⁄4 per cent either side of the parity relationship. This decision was revised in November 1973 to permit a member country to maintain a stable rate for its currency, which was itself floating, to declare their rate to the Fund as the central rate.

Sri Lanka too, with effect from November 08, 1971, severed its rupee link with sterling and maintained the existing parity between the Sri Lanka rupee and the US dollar at 1 US = Rs. 5.9524. The reason as to why this value was quoted here is to show the substantial degree of depreciation of the rupee since then and as of end December, 2007, it is at Rs.107.94 (buying) and Rs 109.22 (selling). This depreciation or devaluation process happened in two ways, first with administrative fiat twice and then by managed floating.

To take up the first category first, this process started with the lowering of the pound sterling in November 1967 from $ 2.80 to the pound to $ 2.40 to the pound (devaluation of 14.3 per cent). Consequent upon this decision, the Government of Sri Lanka effected a devaluation of the rupee by 20 per cent on November 22, 1967. Another reason that led to this devaluation was the cumulative effect of the almost continuous deterioration in the balance of payments for several years. Again, on November 16, 1977 the government (a) unified the rupee with the dispensation of the then existing FEEC system, (b) devalued it to Rs 16 per US dollar as against Rs. 8.99 on November 15, 1977, and (c) allowed it to float in terms of the demand and supply conditions in the exchange market. In the meantime, the Central Bank intervened in major currencies to prevent erratic movements in the exchange rates.

Nevertheless, devaluation of the rupee continued and the end-year values were as follows: Rs. 36.05 1989, Rs 40.06 in 1990, Rs 41.37 in 1991, Rs. 43.83 in 1992, Rs. 48.25 in 1996, Rs. 70.39 in 1999, and Rs. 75.77 in 2000.

A major decision was taken on January 23, 2001 by the Central Bank to move the foreign exchange rate regime from a managed float to an independent float. This was due to the large balance of payments deficit and heavy drain on official external reserves Sri Lanka experienced. As a result, the Sri Lanka rupee depreciated against almost all major currencies. This is the time the present writer wrote an article (mentioned above) criticising the action taken by the Central Bank which took some measures to cushion the overshooting of the exchange rate. Nevertheless, the value of the rupee against the dollar continued to depreciate: Rs. 95.66 in 2002, Rs. 96.52 in 2003, Rs.101.19 in 2004, Rs. 100.50 (slight appreciation) in 2005 and Rs. 103.95 in 2006.

Before we comment on the developments in 2007 in the final paragraph, a few other observations are apt. Depreciation of the rupee against the dollar is salutary from the viewpoint of the exporters who would get more in rupees for their dollar earnings. But the consumers who depend very much on imports may experience a rise in the cost of living, Also, the increase in the price of the import of machinery and other capital equipment will have a drag on the production process.

What are the determinants of the valuation of the exchange rate? There may be a formula by which the Central Bank does the valuation of the rupee vis-à-vis other major currencies but it is not made public. This is where the Central Bank can monkey with the exchange rate. Naturally, the demand for and supply of foreign exchange will be at play in the valuation of the exchange rate. Theoretically, determination of the exchange rate, if it is allowed to float, is a function of the performance of the balance of payments. Although the balance of trade (the difference between export and import values) and the current account (services included to it) have been in the red right throughout, the balance of payments has been in surplus in varying degrees, that factor alone not paving the way for depreciation of the rupee. But it goes on unabated. How does it happen?

The surplus in the balance of payments means that Sri Lanka's inflow of foreign exchange is more than outflow. Under such circumstances, how does the depreciation take place? It seems that the balance of trade, particularly the terms of trade as well as the increased prices of imports that include those of fuel, gas, wheat, other consumer and investment goods, etc., and foreign debt payments do play a bigger role in the valuation of the currency. In effect, what happens is that we are at the beck and call of the Central Bank pundits. Procurement of the commercial loan of $ 500 million in installments underlines many things such as underpinning the foreign exchange market, ability to withstand the pressure on the exchange market and effecting a surplus in the balance of payments in the short run that would in effect arrest further decline in the value of the rupee but once these effects are eased out, the depreciation of the rupee would continue if the exogenous factors become more adverse.

Nevertheless, it is not that easy to predict the performance in a volatile market. There is a saying in economics that forecasters do often go wrong.

Depreciation of the rupee in 2007 became more pronounced shooting it up to Rs. 114.7 on September 19, 2007. Thereafter, due to negotiation and partial realisation of the commercial loan of $ 500 million, the rupee appreciated slightly to Rs 110.42 on November 12, 2007 and to Rs. 109.22 on December 29, 2007. Maintenance of the value around Rs. 110 or less, though desired, would be a daunting task once the effect of this loan is withered out and the terms of trade (measured by the country's export price index against import price index) becomes adverse. The present writer's hunch is that (a) the continuation of a surplus in the balance of payments, (b) better performance in economic growth, (c) realisation of targets enumerated in the budget for 2008, (d) increased worker remittances, foreign direct investment inflows and augmentation of more foreign investments, (e) maintenance of the surplus in the current account envisaged in the budget, (f) better discipline in fiscal and monetary management, Sri Lanka should be able to maintain the rupee at or around Rs. 110. But anything can happen between the cup and the lip!





