Another election has been thrust on us. At best of times, this would have been an enjoyable exercise in democracy. Unfortunately in our country elections have become the occasions to insult and intimidate the long-suffering citizens by the politicians. Already we can see this process being enacted on almost every election platform and by every poster on private walls and cutouts in public places. The faces of the main contenders for presidency are well known to the electorate. So there is no need for posters or cutouts. Why cannot these two candidates tell their supporters to stop here and now the poster and cut-out campaign? Or is it that the supporters want to gain favours from the winner by simply wasting money on cut-outs?

Politics is an art of orienting oneself among conflicting groups. Politics would always remain polemical. Thus, the political community needs the best of guidance to make a sensible choice from among a motley crowd of contestants, peddling polemic programmes. At best, what the citizens usually get is a drivel of rhetoric and dishonourable and deceitful promises. One main candidate is long on promises without spelling out how exactly he will fulfil them once he has abolished the Presidency within 180 days of being elected. The Rs.10,000 increase on salaries, (leaving aside for the moment provisions for pensions), of State employees within a month of being elected, really means finding 120,000,000 rupees within a month for the first month's (February) salary alone.

Do you believe this is possible?

To legally squeeze this amount of money from the corrupt men will take ages given the very dilatory procedures in our courts of law. Mind you, this is the source this candidate expects to tap to finance this huge salary increase. I do agree that those who profited from corruption should be made to pay back their ill-gotten gains. But this cannot be done within a month. Other sources such as levying more taxes, cutting other government services already in existence, raising the money as a loan in the open market and printing brand new crisp bank notes will have their own associated deleterious effects on the economy.

Further, he will not have power in Parliament in the event of his victory and there is no guarantee that his present political-party-backers will be elected to parliament and be in a position or willing to carry out the promises made by the candidate who does not belong to their political party or parties!

These politicians do not realise that "a political body exists not only in the present, but also in the past and in the future, and its function is to connect past, present and future. In a political community several generations exist at the same time; the political choice is always an arbitration between the claims of these different generations" (Paul Ricoeur). Such an attitude is beyond the puny minds of our politicians. They would rather relish in innuendos, invectives and false promises. So, it is now our turn to reflect on the élan that underpins the election before us.

Potestas legibus soluta

All our politicians competing for the Presidency, no matter their pedigree and promises to abolish it, are after potestas legibus soluta (power absolved of all laws). In fact, one has already admitted in another context that the denial of "controlling command" over all security forces in our land compelled him to enter the presidential fray.

The status and position of our President is unique. It is contrary to the very fundamentals of democracy where only the law is supreme and all citizens are subject to the laws of the country. It is also highly offensive to the citizenry, as they are not only subject to the laws of the country, but are also subject to the fiats of the President. He has the power to take various measures to restrict the freedom of his citizens, of which, the Emergency Regulation is just one.

The ideology that legitimises this unbounded power is not religion or morals, but the old French slogan l'argent n'a pas de maitre (money has no lord). This is why the moneyed aristocracy is very busy at the moment, contacting the major party activists to empty their purses, so that this "complete domination of dead matter over mankind" (Marx) would be perpetuated. Their dominant interests have become the dominant ideas of society. These owners of capital are not selected by any rational system. Many of them achieve their position by graft and by fiddling the economic, tax and customs regulations. Fraud and plunder of Treasury of even private companies are not beyond their strategy to accumulate wealth beyond their dreams. They have disproportionate power to lobby and influence political decisions. Our capitalist hierarchy is often closely entangled with our political hierarchy and both are in pursuit of wealth, opulence and conspicuous consumption for generations to come. This deadly combination inevitably exploits all others and degenerates into cancerous corruption. This indeed is the situation in our country today.

Promise to eliminate corruption

The promise to eliminate corruption is a wholesome objective; but whether one can achieve it within a short time span, while being surrounded by persons who, too, are tainted with the mud of corruption in the past remains a moot point. At previous Presidential elections, too, we heard the same fatuous promise. We do know that corruption did not abate, instead it only increased. I, for one, will remain skeptical on this issue until I see real results. The Internet is awash with allegations of corruption against both main candidates, but none of the accusers appear to be willing to take the individuals concerned to open examination in a court of law. Therefore, the aim of the accusers appears to be, to the ordinary person with no access to secret documents, to make them both tainted with corruption.

Bertrand Russell in his book Human Society in Ethics and Politics attributes man's unending activity to four main characteristics such as acquisitiveness, rivalry, vanity and love of power.

Acquisitiveness or the desire to hoard riches far beyond any possible physical needs, was to Russell one of the infinite motives. "However much you may acquire, you will always wish to acquire more; satiety is a dream which will always elude you"(Russell).

The Buddha has already drawn the attention of mankind to Tanha and its evil effects. He also taught us the path to the eradication of Tanha. His profound teachings have fallen by the wayside in Theravada Buddhist Sri Lanka. The accumulation and flaunting of wealth have today acquired cultic proportions and fanatical devotees. Just observe the glamorous and ostentatious events such as birthday cocktails and weddings celebrations at our five star hotels for evidence of my claims above.

Acquisitiveness and rivalry

Rivalry is another very strong motive. "The world would be a happier place than it is if acquisitiveness were always stronger than rivalry. But in fact, a great many men will cheerfully face impoverishment if they can thereby secure complete ruin for their rivals."(Russell) We see the shameless rivalry between the two main candidates to claim credit for victory over the LTTE. One of them wants the credit exclusively for himself. The intense rivalry backed by violence at election time in Sri Lanka is a crying shame on our political leaders. They can control it. But will they?

Vanity is another motive of immense potency. It grows with what it feeds on. What vanity needs for its satisfaction is glory of some kind. "Politicians ... the more famous they become, the more difficult the press cutting agency finds it to satisfy them. It is scarcely possible to exaggerate the influence of vanity throughout the range of human life"(Russell). A glance at the lives of our politicians and their henchmen hogging the limelight on every occasion, will confirm Russell's view. It is unfortunate and unpardonable that this vanity is fed at the expense of the nation's coffers.

Love of power

Love of power is by far the strongest motive in the lives of our politicians. "Power, like vanity is insatiable. Nothing short of omnipotence could satisfy it completely. Love of power is greatly increased by the experience of power, and this applies to petty power as well as to that of potentates" (Russell). Both our main candidates have had the experience of power. Power over human beings is shown in making them do what they would rather not do. The man who is actuated by love of power is more apt to inflict pain than to permit pleasure. Power springs up between men when they act together and vanishes the moment they disperse. Because of this peculiarity, it can only be actualised, but never fully materialised. Power is to an astonishing degree independent of material factors, either of numbers or means. On top of this, the Presidential powers in Sri Lanka are fully ensconced by the constitution. As one President claimed, he literally could do anything, except make a man into a woman and vice versa. This particular President would certainly have arrogated to himself that power, too, if that had been physically possible!

The present clamour for the abolition of the Executive Presidency is, to me, a big lie, or at least the word "abolition" is incorrectly used here. The candidate who boldly advocates this also contradicts it almost immediately by telling us that he will not be a mere "ceremonial president" and also by the many promises he expects to fulfil once he becomes the President. I do not believe that the Office of Presidency will be abolished root and branch. In all honesty, I would like to see a Presidency that is accountable to Parliament and subject to the laws of the country. He/She should be bound by legal checks and balances.

Conflict between law and power

In a conflict between law and power, it is seldom that the law which will emerge as victor. The limitations set by law upon power can only decrease its potency. Power can be stopped and still be kept intact only by power. Thus, "the principle of the separation of power not only provides a guarantee against monopolisation of power by one part of the government, but actually provides a kind of mechanism, built into the very heart of the government, through which new power is generated, without, however, being able to overgrow and expand to the detriment of other centers or sources of power" (Hannah Arendt). Clearly, there is an overwhelming case for legally enforceable balance of power in our constitution.

Thomas Paine in his book, Rights of Man, maintained that 'a constitution is not the act of government but of people constituting a government.' It is the people who should endow the government with a constitution and not vice versa. This is why in most countries constitutional assemblies are established with the sole task of drafting a constitution and then have it debated clause by clause, amended where necessary and then adopted according to legally laid out procedures.

A package of constitutional proposals concocted by a cabal is really a travesty of the rights of the citizens. The idea that such a package of proposals, when adopted, will usher in peace throughout the country is simply a ghastly privilege of pursuing a phantom and embracing a delusion.

Usually, at an election we vote for a party, a programme and a leader. Therefore, we cannot bracket completely the element of leadership, because politics is the place where decisions are made for the whole. The claim to charisma by any one leader is really an extortion on peoples' belief. The decisive trait of charismatic authority is the lack of reciprocity between claim and belief. Max Webber, who dwelt on this phenomenon in his book, Economy and Society, considered a charismatic personality as "extraordinary and treated as endowed with supernatural, superhuman, or at least specifically exceptional powers or qualities. These are such as not accessible to the ordinary person, but are regarded as of divine origin or as exemplary, and on the basis of them, the individual concerned is treated as leader". Does any candidate for Presidency meet these criteria? They are all fickle men, and for this reason, are in pursuit of absolute power over all of us. Our hope that once elected to office, any of them will devote his time and effort for the welfare of the people, is the Nietzschean indulgence––we need illusions to survive the travails of life, that we would die if we saw the real truth of human existence.

It will be bonanza for the kith and kin of the winning candidate. We sure have the track record of one candidate's political life while the other main candidate is an unknown in politics and is trying to win his case by many promises, most of which cannot be fulfilled within the time span of 180 days he has allotted to himself as President and as promised by him.

Come what may, let us all sally forth and cast our votes at least for the sake of exercising our democratic rights while entertaining the hope that the winner will devote at least some of his time and efforts to improve the pitiable living conditions of the citizens. There is no harm in thinking that ours is now a land of peace, hope and glory even though some might consider that a grand delusion.





