Little did I realise how powerful our TV teledramas are in shaping our minds till an elderly lady recently described to me how she saw a real fight near the Bambalapitiya flats where I live.

Two boys, returning from a popular school, had challenged each other in real TV style for a fight over some issue, possibly a girl.

The lady concerned who was returning home from church one Sunday morning had been extremely delighted to see a fight like that in real life. 'One boy kicked the other and the other boy gave him an upper-cut which left him bleeding', said she with so much relish I began to wonder whether she was returning from Sunday Mass or from a slaughter house!

If the church or mosque or temple teaches us right livelihood will we have to produce more and more soldiers or lawyers or policemen? Whatever livelihood we undertake either creates untold misery for other human beings or leads to the ultimate destruction of mankind.

The recent video footage of a so-called doctor, an MP, a minister, a Buddhist etc. is certainly not an example of right livelihood though that is what is preached or parotted day and night on all our channels by the men in robes or without robes.

Can right livelihood be achieved by one who seeks power, one who is envious, one who is full of hatred and antagonism?

Only the inwardly rich will not seek power whether it is political power or religious power, the MP trying to be a Minister, and a priest trying to be a bishop or Maha Nayake.

How can we teach right livelihood to our children if after every religious sermon we show them bloodshed, legalised or otherwise?

One TV channel notorious for teledramas portraying rape, violence and crime has begun to show a story of a young woman who leaves her first born at home and elopes with another man, to find that he too is married! His wife turns up and chases the new found mistress who attempts suicide. This particular TV channel is fond of scripts portraying elopement and suicide!

This writer knows a woman who observes the Eight Precepts every Poya day but works in a poultry farm! When I asked her if that was the right livelihood she said: "What can I do when I have so many children to feed and when my husband's income is most inadequate for us to have a square meal?" The woman who said this was expecting her next child three months later!

Why are our TV channels so bloodthirsty? While writing this I used the remote control to turn to three TV channels? Two of them showed fights and the third attempted rape!

Foreigners who came to this beautiful island in search of peace and tranquillity have told me that there was no such thing at all in Sri Lanka if they judge us by our TV shows.

I asked a monk if he knew that soon after he explained loving kindness to all living beings the TV channel showed a plateful of sizzling hot sausages with chicken parts? He had no reply?





