The Island-NewsAddressing a press meeting held at the Ratnapura Rest House, recently, Ratnapura District MP and Minister of Power and Energy W. D. J. Seneviratne said that his district when compared with others had taken a lead in all development activities, in 2008.

He said that under the Mahinda Chinthanaya programme of President Mahinda Rajapaksa and under his Maga Neguma, and Gama Neguma Programnes, the funds released by the parliamentarians from their integrated budgetary allocations and the 100% co-operation extended by the public, and all the Divisional Secretariats helped in the completion of 500 projects, under the able direction of Ratnapura District Secretary.

Of the 17 Divisional Secretariats in the district, the Ratnapura Secretariat had achieved 100 per cent results and he was very happy about it as a member representing the district. Shortcomings in the other divisions should be put in order, he said.

Amidst a decisive war, the development works in 2008 were carried out without hindrance. It will be continued in 2009 as well.

The minister said electricity was supplied in the district to the tune of Rs. 245 million in the past and 90 per cent of the electricity problems had been solved.

Even though there were street lights there were houses without electricity in some parts of the Balangoda and Kolonna areas. Those houses would be provided with electricity under the Mahinda Chinthanaya programme, he said.

The world economic crisis has its impact on the country's tea, rubber and gem industries. Whatever economic crisis the country may have to face, the fight against terrorism will continue until the North, like the East, is free and and all could live in peace and harmony, he said .

He also thanked the District Secretary Mrs. Malani Premaratna, who is to retire from service, for her 15 years of unstinted service to the district, especially her service during the disaster period. She had also trained the people to face any future disaster, he said.



