After being bowled out for 76 runs and forced to follow on, S. de S. Jayasinghe College, Dehiwala forced a draw to their match against Moratu Vidyalaya as they posted 235 for nine wickets at close in their match ended at Moratuwa yesterday. Skipper Ishara Kuruwita anchored the tail with a fighting half century (55 runs). He also took seven wickets on day one.

Chasing a target of 151 runs to win St. Joseph's College were 81 for one wicket when umpires called for bad light in their match against Wesley College at Darley Road yesterday. Wesley earned first innings points.

Himasha Liyanage backed up his first innings century with an unbeaten half century as Dharmapala College earned first innings points against Mahanama College in their match ended at FTZ Ground yesterday.

Deciding to field first, St. Peter's College's Chemila Obeysekera and Sahan Nanayakkara picked up five wickets each but a century from Pasindu Isira propelled Ananda College to 298 runs at Ananda Mawatha yesterday.

Revata College, Balapitiya had the first day's honours against their name as they restricted Maliyadeva College to 116 for nine wickets at stumps in reply to their 173 runs in their match at Balapitiya yesterday.





ZILLIONe holds workshop for clients in the Maldives

ZILLONe Business Solutions recently organized a day-long workshop for their corporate clients in Maldives on "Building a strategic framework for HR."

The key purpose of the workshop was to familiarize their clients on new HR trends and to infuse the concept of simultaneously creating shared value in their organizations leading to wealth creation.

With an emphasis on service, empathy, trust, humility and creativity, values that ZILLIONe have strongly adopted into their own framework, the workshop focused on reconceiving products and markets, redefining productivity in the value chain and building a culture of recognition.

Ajith Bopitiya, CEO and Chief Consultant of TRIKONSULT, Sri Lanka facilitated the session. With 18 years of HR experience and as a leader of many HR organizations in Sri Lanka with international learning exposure in Germany, the Netherlands, Singapore, Japan and India, he brought critical discussion point that were well received by the participants.

The Workshop discussed the criticality of an engaged workforce and the role of Employee Recognition Programmes in achieving high engagement levels. During the presentation, the value of creating one universal programme within the organization, offering a broad winners circle and abolishing some of the limiting self-limiting mindsets were discussed. Case study examples were given where such contemporary initiatives has resulted in high employee engagement and low employee turnover while making progress in all its activities.

Also examined was the value of the workforce to an organizations bottom line. Other key areas discussed were employee attitudes, the manner of hiring and selection, employee retention, and management and development training.









Draft Seed Act: a sell-out to multinationals?

January 7, 2014, 10:13 pm

by Maheesha Mudugamuwa

The government was trying to sell the country's right to own its seed varieties to multinational companies through the draft Seed Act, Centre for Environmental and Nature Studies (CENS) claimed yesterday.

National Coordinator of CENS, environmentalist Ravindra Kariyawasam said that the government after abolishing the Seed Act 2003 had introduced the Seed Act 2011.

But after a series of protests by farmers and environmentalists the government had shelved it and now again it was trying to present the draft seed Act in a different form.

He said that the decision would increase the domination of multi-national seed companies in the country and might end up forcing farmers to pay royalty on hybrid seeds.

There was now enormous pressure on developing countries to adopt the developed country models and many had been persuaded to join the international Plant Variety Protection, Kariyawasam said.

Agriculture experts alleged that the draft Seed Act would target farm saved seeds as at least two-thirds of the country's crop area was currently planted with farm-saved seed every year.

The draft Seed Act which is currently with the Legal Draftsman's Department will give power to a special committee to raid the households of farmers in search of 'illegal' seeds infringing on their civil rights.

Meanwhile, Agriculture Minister Mahinda Yapa Abeywardane yesterday told The Island that the Seed Act was only a draft document which could be changed according to the wishes of the people.

"The draft Seed Act is on the web and anyone give their opinion," the Minister said.

It was unfair to accuse the government of a sell-out as it had no legal rights, the Draft Act could be subjected to changes, Yapa added.





Sri Lanka Fed Cup team named

January 7, 2014, 9:59 pm

By Revata S. Silva

The four-member Sri Lanka Fed Cup team has now named, Aasiri Iddamalgoda, head of National Tennis Selection Committee, said on Tuesday, January 7.

The Sri Lanka Fed Cup team for 2013: Amritha Muttiah, Nethmi Waduge, Medhira Samarasinghe and Kemalie Herath. Former Fed Cup rep for Sri Lanka, Shalini de Silva nee Pereira will be the Non-playing Captain of the team while the team Manageress being Ms Sujani Bogollagama.

Muttiah is the only player who has played in the prestigious annual tournament before. She played in the Group-II Fed Cup in Thailand in year 2008.

The 2014 Asia-Oceania Zone Group-II Fed Cup, the corresponding women's version of the Davis Cup, the virtual World Cup of men's tennis, will be held from February 4-8 on outdoor hard surface at the National Tennis Centre, Astana, Kazakhstan.

The format will be the round-robin basis where there will be three pools, each consisting three countries (named Pools 'A', 'B' and 'C') and one pool of four countries (Pool 'D'). The four winners of each pool will play-off to determine which country advances to the Asia-Oceania Zone Group I. Only one country will be promoted to the Zone's Group-I in 2015.

History –

Fed Cup was launched in 1963 to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the International Tennis Federation (ITF). It's now the world's largest annual international team competition in women's sport, with 97 nations entering in 2013.

Yet, the idea for Fed Cup can be traced back to 1919 when Mrs. Hazel Hotchkiss Wightman came up with the concept for an international women's team competition.









War Crimes charge: Urgent need for reappraisal of GoSL's response

A Changing us Role and "Numbers Game"

There couldn't be a better choice than the US to examine the circumstances leading to eelam war IV and the bloody conclusion of the conflict on the banks of the Nanthikadal lagoon in May 2009.

Having studied the capabilities and weaknesses of the Sri Lankan military vis a vis the LTTE in late 2002, on the invitation of the then Premier Ranil Wickremesinghe, the US made a series of recommendations aimed at enhancing the fighting capabilities of GoSL forces to meet any eventuality. The US conducted the assessment as the was country rapidly heading for eelam war IV, though Norway remained confident of a negotiated settlement to the conflict.

There hadn't been a similar assessment conducted during the entire war. The credit for having the US to scrutinize Sri Lanka's military capability should go to Premier Wickremesinghe, whose meetings with US President George W. Bush in July 2002 paved the way for the Department of Defence to deploy a five-man team led by Ambassador Robin Raphel, Senior Vice President of the National Defence University.

In accordance with the US study, USPACOM, having closely examined the military at operational as well as tactical levels, attributed the armed forces failure to defeat the LTTE largely to economic shortfalls and operational inefficiencies. The US asserted: "This situation threatens to place the government of Sri Lanka in a precarious position at the negotiating table or on the battlefield, if hostilities resumed."

Sri Lanka reciprocated by arresting a wanted Al Qaeda operative taking refuge here and handing him over to the CIA. The arrest was made on information provided by the US. The removal of the suspect was in line with what the US called extraordinary rendition, a special project targeting those who posed a security threat to US interests.

The military proved experts wrong by executing a multi-pronged offensive on the Vanni front (March 2007-May 2009) after having liberated the Eastern Province in June 2007. During eelam war IV, the US provided decisively intelligence leading to the destruction of four LTTE floating arsenals on the high seas in two separate missions. The US also enhanced Sri Lanka's offshore operational capacity by delivering a former US Coast Guard vessel to the Sri Lanka Navy. But today, the US is pushing Sri Lanka on the diplomatic front demanding, that the country explain the conduct of its armed forces during the final phase of the offensive.

US steps up pressure

The United States Ambassador-at-Large for War Crimes Issues, in the Office of Global Criminal Justice at the Department of States Stephen J. Rapp arrived in Colombo on Monday (Jan 6).

Ambassador Rapp is scheduled to meet politicians, officials as well as civil society representatives during his six-day visit. The visiting official will focus on Sri Lanka's justice, accountability, and reconciliation processes.

Rapp visited Sri Lanka in February 2012 before the U.S. presented a resolution on Sri Lanka at the United Nations Human Rights Council in Geneva in March 2012. The visit takes place ahead of the Geneva-based UN Human Rights Council (UNHRC) sessions due to commence on March 3, 2014.

Ambassador Rapp's visit should be examined in the backdrop of Suren Surendiran on behalf of the UK headquartered Global Tamil Forum (GTF) demanding that Sri Lanka should be hauled up before an international war crimes tribunal without further delay over accountability issues during the final months of the war on the Vanni east front. Surendiran alleged that Sri Lanka would make an attempt to deceive the international community at the next UNHRC sessions by accepting a Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC) as recommended by South Africa to examine the conflict. Surendiran cited documentaries produced by UK media outfits, Channel 4 News and Channel 4 as evidence of atrocities committed by the Sri Lankan Army (SLA) during the final months of the war.

It would be the responsibility of the government to fully brief the visiting official as regards the accountability issues. It would be a grave mistake on the part of the government not to remind Ambassador Rapp of the origins of terrorism here. The government shouldn't hesitate to point out the culpability of other member states of the UN in sponsoring terrorism here. Perhaps, the seasoned diplomat would be able to examine the Sri Lankan issue with a different perspective, due to his involvement in the prosecution of one-time Liberian President Charles Taylor for war crimes committed in neighbouring Sierra Leone.

A lawyer by profession, Rapp was appointed Ambassador-at-Large for War Crimes by President Barack Obama, and confirmed by the U.S. Senate on September 8, 2009. Rapp took up his new assignment several months after the SLA crushed the LTTE on the banks of the Nanthikadal lagoon. Before taking on the US State Department assignment, Rapp had served the Special Court for Sierra Leone. The former Liberian leader was convicted on 11 counts of war crimes, including terrorism, murder, rape and using child soldiers. Taylor was found guilty for aiding terrorists in Sierra Leone's 11-year war which ended in 2002.

Taylor had aided and abetted crimes committed by Revolutionary United Front and Armed Forces Revolutionary Council rebels, while knowing well the kinds of crimes they were committing, the court was told. His conviction and sentence was upheld on appeal, subsequently. Taylor is now held in the UK.

With India twice backing US led resolutions in Geneva targeting Sri Lanka since the conclusion of the conflict in May 2009 and most likely to support the third resolution next March, Sri Lanka should prepare for the worst. In the backdrop former Liberian President Taylor ending up behind bars in the UK for sponsoring terrorism in a neighbouring country, could the international community ignore India's culpability? Sri Lanka should take up this issue with Ambassador Rapp. Would anyone dare New Delhi preaching Sri Lanka on accountability issues, after having caused massive death and destruction here? Would New Delhi explain its responsibility in arming the People's Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (PLOTE) in Sri Lanka leading to an unprecedented amphibious assault on Male on the morning of Nov 3, 1988? Had the PLOTE succeeded, it would have had far reaching consequences. Beautiful Male would have been ripped apart by violence. For want of a cohesive strategy to deal with challenges faced by Sri Lanka, the country is under pressure in spite of having defeated LTTE terrorism.

New Delhi couldn't offset what it did here by building houses in the Northern Province. Those pushing Sri Lanka on the diplomatic front over accountability issues had conveniently forgotten India's role in subverting a friendly country. None other than former Indian Foreign Secretary J. N. Dixit had acknowledged that the destabilization of Sri Lanka was part of its strategy to counter the US threat during the cold war. Unfortunately, successive governments did not bother about these issues. Perhaps the Lakshman Kadirgamar Institute for International Relations and Strategic Studies should re-examine the conflict. Over four years after the end of war, the government is yet to commission a comprehensive study on the conflict.

Sri Lanka's failure

One of the most important issues the government would have to take up with Ambassador Rapp is the UNSG Ban Ki moon's Panel of Experts (PoE) declaration that almost all its records written and oral material couldn't be accessed for 20 years since the day of the release of the report in March 2011. Even after the lapse of 20 years, declassification review would have to be undertaken prior to the release of material. Interestingly, some of the material would never be released. The PoE is on record as having said that it had received over 4,000 submissions from 2,300 persons.

For some strange reason, Sri Lanka had never taken up this issue, vigorously, in spite of the absurdity of the situation. Would the US facing accusations as regards atrocities committed by its troops overseas accept allegations made by unidentified persons? How could a government respond when those making allegations as regards battlefield excesses by its troops take cover behind the UN? Had there been a similar situation faced by another member state of the UN? How could Sri Lanka respond to war crimes allegations without even knowing the specific charges?

Those wanting to hurt Sri Lanka tend to say whatever they felt would be advantageous to their cause. But the government remained reluctant to exploit the situation. There couldn't have been a better example than Canadian New Democratic Party (NDP) MP Rathika Sitsabaiesan declaring that she was placed under house arrest in Jaffna during her recent visit to the Jaffna peninsula. Sitsabaiesan's lie prompted the Canadian government to take up her alleged ordeal with Sri Lanka on New Year's Eve. The Jaffna-born Sitsabaiesan was playing politics at Sri Lanka's expense. For about 24 hours, the Canadian Opposition MP captured the attention of the Tamil Diaspora. She was portrayed as a victim of the repressive Sri Lankan regime, while on a fact finding mission, to Jaffna ahead of the UNHRC session.

The disappearance and the subsequent return of leader of the Frontline Socialist Party (FSP) Kumar Gunaratnam under controversial circumstances revealed the existence of many of those missing under new identities. Although several countries, including some Commonwealth governments had issued passports with new identities to those seeking political asylum in their countries, Sri Lanka never realized the seriousness of the situation until incumbent Australian High Commissioner Robyn Mudie unwittingly admitted that a missing Tamil of Sri Lankan origin, Kumar Gunaratnam had been issued with a passport bearing the name Noel Mudalige. Strangely, HC Mudie had the passport bearing the N 1016123 in her hand bag. Although the External Affairs Ministry raised its concerns with the Australian HC, it never really pursued the matter. How many Sri Lankans allegedly killed during the war or abducted by government agents lived overseas? How many had new identities? Would it be possible to establish the identities of those held under Australian detention after arriving in the country illegally by boat? How many perished on their way to Australia? Perhaps Sri Lanka should seek the advice of Ambassador Rapp to ascertain the number of Sri Lankans living overseas. It would be a necessity in the wake of persistent allegations that over 40,000 died during the final battle according to some estimates.

The allegations made against Sri Lanka in the House of Commons should be examined in the backdrop of a defeated Labour Party MP Joan Ryan joining the GTF as its policy advisor at the end of the eelam conflict. The fact that the House of Commons allowed the GTF to have its inaugural meeting in parliament in February 2010 would reveal the dear the relationship between Tamil electorate in the UK and political parties.

A debate in the House of Commons on 'human rights in the Indian sub-continent' in September 2011 exposed some of those propagating lies in support of a move to set up an international war crimes inquiry targeting Sri Lanka. British lawmaker Siobhan McDonagh (Mitcham and Morden) (Labour) told the House of Commons on Sept. 15 that Sri Lanka's war, in its last five months alone, had claimed the lives of 100,000 people, 40,000 of them civilians. Interestingly she was the only one to estimate the number of LTTE cadres killed during January-May 2009 period. She was utterly wrong. In fact, McDonagh's claim revealed that she was fed wrong information by a party not even remotely connected with the LTTE. Parliament was never told how the MP reached that conclusion.

What the British lawmaker didn't know was that the total number of deaths due to the eelam war (all four phases and those caused during the deployment of the Indian army in Sri Lanka) is far below 100,000.

Amnesty International, in a bulletin headlined 'When Will They Get Justice?' estimated the number of civilians killed at 10,000 on the basis of information provided by eye witnesses and aid workers. The September 2011 report however didn't make any reference to the number of combatants killed during eelam war IV or the final five months.

Those demanding war crimes investigation here should at least among themselves agree on a figure. Perhaps Sri Lanka should point out to Ambassador Rapp that Tamils for Obama, which had proudly declared it backed Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton in the Democratic primary in 2008, claimed that the Sri Lankan military killed 70,000 Tamil civilians during the last weeks of the conflict. The statement was made after meeting the then US Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asian Affairs, Robert O' Blake in the run-up to the US moving an anti-Sri Lanka resolution at the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) sessions, in Geneva.

With various overseas Tamil groups and a section of the international media giving varying figures relating to the number of civilians killed, the claim by the UK`s Channel 4 that over 40,000 perished in `a matter of days` remains the worst estimation so far.





Funds wasted on kidney disease research

January 7, 2014, 7:49 pm

The Island of January 01, 2014 carried the headline news item that a spokesman of the GMOA had accused the government for allocating some Rs 350 million for research on the kidney disease to the National Science foundation(NSF). He argues that this money should not be spent on "unnecessary research" and the money should be re-allocated to the Epidemiology Unit of the Health Ministry for its research. Regrettably, it is a shortsighted statement.

As far as the writer is aware, the previous NSF funded research was carried out by a multidisciplinary team spearheaded by the WHO and comprising medical personnel from the Health Ministry and researchers from the universities and others institutions . I am told that there was a research committee and an oversight scientific committee that met regularly and discussed the results which were also analyzed by independent statisticians. Therefore, If the funds were a waste then the Health Ministry is also accountable. The WHO final report probably has some shortcomings and ambiguities which have been brought forth by the writer and several others in the media. Despite this, it is a good starting point, and evidence has been generated that pointers to the cause or etiology of the disease being multifactorial, and stretching beyond the realms of medical science. If so it has to be a multidisciplinary research thrust, implying that an independent governmental research fund management agency should handle the funds, and NSF is a good choice.

The hitherto implicated causal factors of the disease are: cadmium, arsenic, fluoride, agrochemicals ( fertilizers and pesticides), water hardness/ionicity(solutes), algal toxins, some aurvedic drugs, snake bite, dehydration and insufficient water intake, illicit/excessive alcohol consumption and genetics of the people. Therefore, the new research project to be undertaken should engage competent researchers in the fields not only of medicine and health but also of chemistry, soil science, geology, hydrology, geography, fertilizer and pesticides, population genetics, epidemiology and sociology . The research to be conducted should be identified, prioritized based on importance and resources available. A supervisory body of senior scientists and medical personnel should regularly review progress. The researchers should be accountable for the resources spent.

The GMOA spokesman also comments that Health Ministry has not implemented the WHO recommended "effective procedures to address the issue nor commenced "effective treatment procedures". Being not in the medical field , I cannot comment on the latter, but as regards WHO recommendations, provision of potable water to affected areas and regulation of pesticide use are key. Although belated, it appears that the government is investing in providing potable water through reverse osmosis technology. Polluted water not only affects humans but also animals. Then what about the latter? What is important is to mitigate all pollution. As regards the pesticides, the Registrar of Pesticides claims that the regulatory procedures are in place, but there is wide misuse largely through ignorance. Farmers obtain advice on pesticide from the pesticide sellers and hardly from extension workers. I once asked a farmer in Tambuttegama from where he gets advice on pesticides; "from the wasa beheth kade mudalali" was his reply! The field level extension system that has been devastated by bad politics should be restored as a matter of highest priority, to take the message of judicious and safe use of agrochemicals to farmers, apart from other mandated services. Organic/agrochemical- free agriculture is not yet a viable alternative to conventional agriculture to feed the world. Hence, unfortunately, the use of agrochemicals with their attendant hazards has to continue, but pollution should be mitigated by their safe use, and for it, there has to be far greater education of farmers and vigilant monitoring of pesticide misuse. It is unfortunate that the government has yet not been adequately resolute in addressing these issues.

One of the criticisms of the WHO report was that comparative samplings were not undertaken from the unaffected areas. For example, fertilizer and pesticide use is far more intensive in unaffected areas such as the upcountry than in Rajarata, but the disease is hitherto not reported there from. It is hoped that the new research would address this issue too.





Laksala Museum Gallery Cafe more than just a handicraft boutique

January 7, 2014, 6:47 pm

Laksala Museum Gallery Cafe, which was conceptualized by the Minister of Economic Development Basil Rajapaksa under the Divi Neguma Social Development Scheme, was opened to the public on 1st August 2013 under the Mahinda Chinthana outlook program.

Gallery Café is located in the premises of the National Museum, and has been built to blend perfectly with the architecture and atmosphere of the museum. The uniqueness of the Laksala Museum Gallery Cafe is that it is the first outlet which has been built in the format of a Gallery Cafe, unlike the other outlets of Laksala which follow the boutique design.

Laksala Gallery Cafe has been patronized by many notable world leaders including Princess of Tsuguko of Takamado of Japan, Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn of Thailand, the Israel Diplomatic Delegation and the government officials of the Czech Republic.

One of the prominent events was Prince Charles' business leader's lunch which was hosted for the Heads of business leaders of the Commonwealth Summit; the Laksala Gallery Cafe was 'hand-picked' by his staff at the Buckingham Palace for this special gathering.

Another momentous event that was hosted at the outlet was the launch of the New Jaguar F-type car by a prominent Sri Lankan Automobile company, during the month of December. The outlet also has room to host other news-worthy business events for the organizations who are interested in hosting such at the premises.

Laksala Gallery Cafe caters not just for the foreign tourists who visit Sri Lanka, but also to every Sri Lankan who is keen and willing to appreciate the arts and crafts of the country.

One of the main highlights of Laksala Gallery Cafe is the Mineral Gallery located inside the outlet, which displays an array of minerals found in the country. The Mineral gallery in this outlet is currently the first and the only gallery dedicated for mineral display at Laksala, and has become a key attraction to the visitors.

Sri Lanka's most popular export commodity, tea, is also on display at the Laksala Gallery Café in a special arcade. The high quality varieties of tea are packed to perfection and some are offered in ornamental containers in the shape of an elephant and even as wooden book covers.

The life-size statues of artisans engaged in their respective industries, put on a striking show for the customers to get a glimpse of the process, the work on display has been through.

This state-of-the-art outlet offers to its customers an assortment of 30,000 Stock Keeping Units (SKUs) which includes wood crafts, brass-ware, leather products, jewelry, spa products and many more. This 4-month old store was able to record a staggering sales figure of 9.03 Million LKR for the month of November alone.

"Laksala has been experiencing a notable growth in revenue and profits within the past 2 – 3 years, which can be mainly attributed to our shift from the traditional functions of a Laksala store. We have adopted an innovative business model to suit the post-war emerging economy of the country where tourism, both locally and globally, is becoming a focal point in our economy. In order to cater to this, most of our recent outlets like Ape Gama and Laksala Museum Gallery Cafe are built under customized concepts that has turned-around our business" Laksala Gallery Café hopes to organize "Theme Nights" and outdoor art exhibitions to create an appreciation towards the traditional arts and crafts of Sri Lanka. Apart from this, they also hope to extend their spa display, by offering their customers therapeutic treatment opportunities while shopping.





Sampath minor savings book promotion to brighten new school year

Getting young ones to save money right from his or her early years is a good habit to inculcate. Perhaps this needs a perfect timing and correct incentives to be very effective.

Sri Lanka's leading commercial bank, Sampath Bank has put together a special promotion for their childrens accounts, with the aim of inducing the idea of savings among schoolchildren. The campaign that kick started from December is geared to give the ideal start for a prosperous new year.

Sampath Minor Savings Accounts are ready to offer valuable gifts through a special offer open for the account holders who deposit money in a new or existing 'Pubudu' or 'Sapiri' children's savings accounts at Sampath Bank.

Gifts are valid only for new deposits made from the 05th December 2013 to 31st January, 2014 onwards or until stocks last.

Account holders who deposit Rs. 12,000 are entitled to receive a Stationary pack consisting valuable books, School Equipment and a Rs.1,000 gift voucher from DSI where they could buy bags, shoes or any other items available at any DSI outlet spread island wide. For those who deposit Rs.7,500, Sampath Bank gifts Stationary pack including Valuable books, School Equipment and a Rs.500 gift voucher from DSI.

The Stationary pack includes standard book list including exercise books, pencils, pastels, colour pencils, etc. This is a valuable offer for the parents as this will come in handy when they have to purchase several such stationary packs for their kids, the Bank said.

Deposits could be made & gift packs could be requested from any Sampath Bank branch island-wide irrespective of where the account was originally opened.

In addition to these special promotions, Sampath Bank has been offering fantastic benefits to its minor saving account holders throughout the year in the form of exciting gifts, super interests, overseas trips to top depositors, cash rewards for top achievers at year 5 scholarship exams, free annual Healthcare Insurance cover and free annual Personal Accident Insurance.





CMC and ICTA facilitate CMC tax payment online

January 7, 2014, 6:31 pm

The Colombo Municipal Council (CMC) and the ICT Agency of Sri Lanka (ICTA) signed an MoU recently to enable Colombo City tax payers pay several categories CMC taxes online.

Accordingly, CMC tax payments which do not require any supplementary documents / manual interventions could now (from January 8, 2014) be made online. For this the tax payers are required to provide the CMC account number and the relevant street name and assessment number. Among the tax categories for which this online payment could be made are the following:- (1) Rates payments, (2) Trade tax, (3) Tax on businesses, (4) Market rental, (5) House rental, (6) Shops and boutiques rental and (7) Hawkers' rental. The modus operandi is simple and includes logging in and entering the payment type.

http://www.eservice.cmc.lk/cmc-citizen-web/Payments/OnlinePayments

Commenting on the facility ICTA Re-engineering Government Programme Director Wasantha Deshapriya says that the online payment facility will greatly benefit the 500,000-strong CMC population comprising 150,000 active CMC tax payers. " All the proposed functions will be available to be accessed as a service of the www.srilanka.lk portal. The supported languages will be Sinhala, Tamil and English", Deshapriya points out.

"This is yet another step forward in making the dividends of ICT accrue to the people as expressed in the 'Mahinda Chinthana Vision for the Future' policy statement of the government", Deshapriya adds.

As stated in the specific e-Government Policy which has been approved by the Cabinet of Ministers all the electronic services (eServices) and electronic information in Sri Lanka will be delivered via 'Lanka Gate'.

Lanka Gate is a Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) based messaging infrastructure, which is envisioned to be the gateway for electronic information and electronic delivery in Sri Lanka

It is envisioned that the CMC will leverage Lanka Gate infrastructure to offer electronic services and electronic information to general public, other government organizations as well as private sector organizations. In order to do so, the CMC will make use of the following components of Lanka Gate;

The CMC intends to offer the following eService to the stakeholders by leveraging the Lanka Gate infrastructure;

ICTA will provide the required technical and advisory services for implementing the identified eServices.

Security

ICTA shall ensure that all possible security concerns related to data sharing and connecting to internal systems are addressed in a comprehensive manner through assessments carried out by Sri Lanka Computer Emergency Readiness Team (SL CERT, www.slcert.gov.lk).

Extension

ICTA will extend Lanka Gate components such as the Country Portal, 1919-GovSMS and the Lanka Interoperability Exchange (LIX) which is the data exchange Enterprise Service Bus to enable the CMC to offer eServices to CMC stakeholders efficiently and in a secure manner leveraging multiple delivery channels.

ICTA will extend the Lanka Gate IPG service to enable the CMC to accept payments online for any transactional eServices offered by itl. According to the Cabinet decision dated 2009-12-23 and consequent FR Circular No 447, ICTA will also facilitate acceptance of electronic payment over-the counter, if requested by the CMC.





Liya Abhiman website to help self-employed women

January 7, 2014, 6:48 pm

The Liya Abhiman organisation ceremonially launched its website at Gampaha under Economic Development Minister Basil Rajapaksa's patronage to promote the interests of self-employed women, improve their skills and knowledge and provide them with more and better opportunities to market their products.

Minister Rajapaksa said that women were making a major contribution to strengthen the national economy and thereby alleviate poverty. The launch of the website would greatly help to improve their financial position, he added.

The website will provide all the information on Liya Abhiman organisation's activities and on marketing products of self-employed women. The website can be accessed on www.liyaabhiman.lk

The total population of the Gampaha District is 2,294,641 million comprising 593,317 families. Fifty percent (1,179,292) of this number is women. In 2009 the ratio of the unemployed was 4.7 percent and in 2012 it went down to 3.7 percent. Liya Abhiman has made a major contribution to reduce unemployment, according to Gampaha District Secretariat's Planning Director Gamini Wickramapala.









Devananda-Tissa ends in tie

Under-19 Cricket

January 7, 2014, 10:00 pm

The Under-19 Division II cricket encounter between Devananda College and Tissa Central, Kalutara ended in a thrilling tie after the home team made amends for their dismal first innings performances with a score of 257 and restricted the visitors to 157 with seven balls remaining in the day at Ambalangoda yesterday.

A day after Charith Rajapaksha cracked 129 runs in 76 balls, his teammate Tharaka Dananjaya hammered 136 runs in 67 balls inclusive of 11 fours and 12 sixes as Carey College earned first innings points against St. Patrick's College, Jaffna in their match ended at Railway Ground, Dematagoda yesterday.

Given a target of 215 runs to chase Sri Jayawardenapura MV were 87 for two wickets at close as Sastrananda College earned first innings points against them in their match ended at Sri Jayawardenapura Ground yesterday.





Gold Smuggling

January 7, 2014, 7:47 pm

During the last few months we have been reading of instances of detection of gold smuggling both at BIA and at Chennai and also at Mumbai airports, into India from this country, with some frequency. Detections are of fairly large quantities. The last one reported is of 4.5 kilos. Obviously there is a pull factor for gold into India. This we knew all the time. But the present trend of frequent detections calls for some attention. Is there an increase in the pull factor lately or is it that our Customs officers had suddenly become more efficient?! Thus what is the background? I think this trend needs some serious investigation. The offenders caught are reported to be frequent travelers between the two countries. Obviously they have been successfully smuggling gold to India till they were caught. But each smuggling detection seems to end with the detection. In the last detection the offender had been fined a Rs. one million. He had paid the fine immediately, the smuggled gold had been forfeited and that is the end of that story. The next detection will be another story. Who provided the offender the contraband? Who paid his fine? How was such a large amount raised in a hurry to pay the fine? No such questions seem to be addressed. It appears that customs too are happy that they had displayed their efficiency, collected their substantial rewards and tomorrow is another detection giving the same result. Smugglers are happy; Customs are happy. Everybody is happy!

Neither the Customs Intelligence, State Intelligence nor Police Narcotics Bureau nor the Central Bank seems to be looking at this trend from their respective angles. We also read an increase of detection of heroin coming into the country in extraordinary quantities, of late. Could the gold smuggled be payment for such transactions? Or is it that some black money from all the rampant corruption that is being moved out of the country in the form of gold? If so what is its impact on our foreign currency markets? There are so many possibilities. No one seems to be looking at this larger picture. It is not in the interests of the country both economically and security wise.

Another aspect is that if the Customs, Immigration and Police Narcotics Bureau units on duty at the BIA work in tandem, sharing information, they could bring the frequent travelers between India and Sri Lanka under closer scrutiny. It could result in more detections and also making impact on this smuggling racket.

In the good old days, upto the late 'Seventies, to my recollection, there used to be an annual Indo-Sri Lanka Anti- smuggling and Anti-Illicit Immigration conference where such general issues were jointly addressed and information exchanged. Here they jointly looked at the larger picture. Probably this arrangement may have been dropped off during the time of conflicts in the last 30 years. Perhaps it may be desirable to resurrect this dialogue to compare and exchange information on such matters. Since most of the heroin coming to Sri Lanka appears to be originating from Pakistan, that country too could be invited. May be we could include problem of the poaching in the Northern seas too.





Acting on information elicited from an underworld figure in the North, police arrested 12 persons in a series of raids over the past 36 hours ending 6.00 am yesterday. It was the first major operation undertaken by law enforcement agencies in the Jaffna peninsula since the conclusion of the conflict in May 2009.

The Island revealed the existence of a Jaffna underworld in a lead story headlined UPFA constituent alleges escalation of robberies, violence in Jaffna on January 2.

Jaffna based sources said the Kopay police had arrested the 21-year-old underworld leader following a complaint received from a person living at Kondavil. Sources said that the suspect had, under interrogation, revealed the identities of those collaborating with him. DIG Jaffna Rohan Dias told The Island that Kopay police had arrested ten persons including the leader of the gang. According to him the Athchuveli police had taken three more suspects into custody as the police stepped up operations in the Jaffna peninsula.

DIG Dias said that the police were determined to crack down on the Jaffna underworld.

Sources said that at least one of the gang members was believed to have fled to India before the police operations got underway. The police are also looking for a woman and five other persons for questioning over their alleged involvement with the gang.

The police squads assigned for the operation took suspects in raids conducted in Kopay, Inuvil, Chunnakam, Kondavil, Manipay, Jaffna and Athchuveli.

The police recovered 12 swords, three knuckle-dusters, two hand grenades and six motorcycles.

Sources said that the police had recovered hand phones and CDs containing pictures of some of those now in custody. One video captured a person kneeling down before the gang leader while his associates looked on.

Police ruled out the gang's affiliation to any political party or group operating in the Jaffna peninsula.

DIG Dias said that fresh instructions had been issued to the Jaffna police to step up operations against the underworld. Responding to a query, Dias said that the people had been reluctant to contact police fearing reprisal.





Over 40 journalists abducted, killed or fled country since 2005 – Harshana

*Lasantha's fifth death anniversary today,killers yet to be found

January 7, 2014, 10:17 pm

by Zacki Jabbar

Since 2005 over 40 journalists have been abducted,disappeared,killed or fled the country,but no action has been taken to find and prosecute those responsible,the UNP charged yesterday.

Western Provincial Council UNP member Harshana Rajakaruna,addressing a press conference in Colombo,said that media freedom was under threat as never before,but the government claimed that Sri Lanka was a peaceful country where the rule of law prevailed.

Since Mahinda Rajapaksa became President over 40 journalists had disappeared,been abducted, killed or fled the country.Very few arrests had been made,but the suspects had gone scot free due to evidence being suppressed or destroyed by the powers that be,he said adding "tomorrow, is the fifth death anniversary of senior journalist Lasantha Wickremetunga,who was brutually beaten to death in public.But,the killers are yet to be found."

Many media institutions had also been attacked or set on fire since 2005,resulting in extensive damage to property and equipment.Here,too the culprits who in some instances were government Ministers were yet to brought to book,the Provincial Councillor noted.

Quoting from parliamentary speeches on media freedom and human rights made by Rajapaksa when he was in the Opposition,Rajakaruna queried if they were not valid now just because he was the President.

He,warned that unless human rights violations and attacks on the media were addressed in a proper and fit manner,Sri Lanka could face international probes and severe sanctions,if the United Nations Human Rights Commission (UNHRC) at its annual session scheduled for March,were to pass a critical resolution against it.

The Rajapaksa regime should at least now drop its arrogant attitude and adopt a sensible foreign policy,without trying to trying to bluff the international community the way it dished out election promises,Rajakaruna said cautioning that such tactics would only backfire badly on the country and its people.





John permitted by UNP to join President's ME visits

January 7, 2014, 10:18 pm

The UNP said yesterday that it had given John Ameratunga MP, permission to join President Mahinda Rajapaksa on his visits to Jordan ,Palestine and Israel.

Gayantha Karunathillake MP,said that Ameratunga was granted permission following a request that he be allowed to join the President,since it would give him an opportunity to visit Christian places of worship, including the Nativity Church in Bethlehem.





Another container load of ethanol detected

The Customs yesterday detected, at the Orugodawatta yard, another container load of ethanol smuggled into the country in the guise of palm oil from Malaysia.

Customs spokesman and Customs Director (legal) Leslie Gamini told The Island that 80 barrels of ethanol containing 200 litres each were being investigated by the Sri Lanka Customs Revenue Task Force and its Central Investigation Division.

Gamini said that the stock of ethanol imported from the Klang Port of Malaysia was worth Rs. 3.2 million, but the Customs would have been deprived of Rs. 10 million in revenue had it been cleared.

Gamini said that two persons had already been arrested in connection with importing the container which reached the Colombo port on December 02. "It was imported under a company supposedly situated in Kotahena, but there was no such company at the given address," he said.

Gamini said that the rubber seal and signatures on documents also had been forged and falsified documents stating that they paid Rs. 1.8 million as Custom duty had been submitted.

Investigations are continuing with the detained container and the suspects, he added.

The Customs detected 10 containers of ethanol, imported illegally last year – two in April and Eight in December.

Meanwhile, the JVP accused government politicians of being behind the illegal ethano imports.

JVP Propaganda Secretary Vijitha Herath told The Island that according to the Customs Investigation Report on eight ethanol containers clearly stated that Puttalam District MP Arundika Fernando called his cousin brother, a Director of Customs, to release the containers with 74, 480 litres of Ethanol.

He said that MP Fernando also told in a newspaper interview that he knew that government politicians were backing not only the illegal import of ethanol but also drugs. "We asked him to reveal the names of those politicians," Herath said.

The Gampaha District MP said that the government should take immediate action to stop the use of political influence to clear such illegal cargo.





18 honey traps arrested

January 7, 2014, 10:18 pm

By Chaminda Silva and Pradeep Samarakoon

Pettah police last Sunday rounded up an organized gang of 18 women who would get friendly with young males visiting Colombo from remote villages and rob them of their valuables after getting them to stay at lodges.

Among those who had fallen victim to the gang had been service personnel, the police said.

These women were rounded up by the police at Olcott Mawatha Bastian Mawatha, Pettah, Gunasinhapura and the Central Bus Stand.

These women are residents of Colombo and suburban areas with ages ranging from 18 and 30 years and addicted to heroin, police said.





Beware of Gods bearing Gifts

January 7, 2014, 5:29 pm

Continued from Midweek Review of December 25, 2013

by Rajeewa Jayaweera

Human Rights

Very little need to be stated on respect for human rights. The Chilcot Report which investigated Britain's decision to go to war in Iraq and install 'regime change' which was possibly the worst foreign policy decision made by UK since their ill-fated decision to 'liberate' the Suez canal in 1956. The perpetrators of that misadventure have passed on to oblivion with their knighthoods without being held accountable for their decisions. The same is bound to happen with those who alleged the presence of WMDs in Iraq to justify the invasion of that country. Prime Minister Cameron who has to make the call for publishing the report need to take the moral responsibility for covering up a major crime which involved the human rights of millions of Iraqis. It is not an unknown fact that whilst western nations including UK consider human rights in their own countries as important and strengthen institutions responsible for upholding and safe guarding human rights, their attitude when it comes to human rights of non-western countries takes a virtual 180 degree turn unless it suits their policies and agenda to champion human rights in those countries and in the process, destabilizing the government in place. It is amply demonstrated in their approach to the Tamil issue in Sri Lanka as opposed the hapless citizens of Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya to name a few where they changed regimes. People are now dying in far greater numbers in those countries than under their former rulers Saddam Hussein, the Taliban and Gadhafi.

Edward Snowden's leaks provided the information amongst other things, how American intelligence officials monitored telephone conversations of over 35 world leaders including the Chancellor of Germany Angela Merkel and President of France François Hollande. The irony of all this is that France, Portugal, Italy and Spain all denied the aircraft carrying Bolivian President Evo Morales back home after a state visit to Russia, access to their air space as they suspected that Edward Snowden may also be a passenger in that aircraft. Finally the Austrians grounded the aircraft, searched it and allowed it to proceed once they were satisfied that no non-Bolivian persons were on board. Such an act contravenes all internationally accepted conventions on the handling of flights carrying Heads of State of nations with whom diplomatic relations at ambassadorial level exist. Even more ironical is that none of the said 35 nations whose Heads of States privacy has been violated have come forward to safe guard David Snowden's rights with an offer of asylum. On the other hand, some of these nations have meekly protested to America, passed a resolution in the UN after watering down the original text from being "deeply concerned at human rights violations and abuses that may result from the conduct of any surveillance of communications" to read as being "deeply concerned at the negative impact that surveillance and interception of communications including extraterritorial surveillance can have on human rights" and left it at that.

Freedom of the Press

We then come to the issue of Freedom of the Press. The British Press is by no means a free press and is controlled by both external and internal constraints. Their Broadcasting laws permit the Home Secretary total control of what is being broadcasted, without reference to Parliament. The authorities have made use of this facility time and again to suppress information on IRA, both Gulf Wars etc. The press has also got to contend with the Official Secrets Act which has legal force and Defence Notice system (D Notice) which has no legal force. In practice, D Notice is purely on a voluntary basis and the ultimate decision whether to publish an item or not lies with the Editor concerned. However, guidelines outline the legal sanctions that can be imposed on an Editor in the event of printing unacceptable content. This is besides the unofficial pressure that can be applied to ensure compliance.

Prime Minister Cameron stated during Prime Minister's Questions in the House of Commons prior to his departure to attend CHOGM that the documentary 'Sri Lanka's Killing Fields' aired by Channel 4 referred "to some very worrying events that are alleged to have taken place". The Sri Lankan government does need this to be investigated and the UN needs this to be investigated. We need to make sure we get to the bottom of what happened and that lessons are learned.

I also watched on television Prime Minister Cameron's statement in the House of Commons on the issue of the publication by The Guardian, information supplied by whistle blower Edward Snowden as "irresponsible journalism". Alan Rusbridger, Editor in Chief of the Guardian was subjected to rigorous questioning by MPs of the Home Affairs Select Committee who was investigating the contents of the publications of Snowden leaks. At the beginning, Yemen born Keith Vaz, the chairperson of the committee questioned Zambia born Mr. Rusbridger "You and I were both born outside this country. I love this country, do you love this country?". Mr. Rusbridger responded with "I am slightly surprised to be asked the question, Yes, we are patriots and one of the things we are patriotic about is the nature of a democracy and the nature of a free press - freedom to write and report is one of the things I love about this country".

Glenn Greenwald is a blogger and journalist who lives in Brazil with his partner David Miranda and involved in the publication of WiKileaks material from Julien Assange and Edward Snowden. In August, Miranda was on his way home to Rio after a week's vacation in Berlin. British police stopped him in the transit lounge at Heathrow Airport, seized material he was carrying for Greenwald, his mobile phone, Lap Top and other electronic devices and demanded passwords for the encrypted electronics. They held him in custody for interrogation for nine hours, before allowing him to proceed with his journey to Brazil.

'Double Tap' technique

Many of us are aware of how two young 9 and 13 years old Pakistani victims of drone attacks travelled to Washington from their North Waziristan village with their father to give evidence before five Congressmen from the Democratic party of their first hand experiences of a US drone attack. The story that was narrated was how on 24 October last year, missiles from a drone fell on them whilst they were picking okra critically injuring both of them and killing their 67-year-old grandmother. As per London based Bureau of Investigative Journalism, 376 total strikes have taken place in Pakistan, killing up to 926 civilians and over 200 children. One may ask of the relevance of this information in this narration. The relevance is as to ascertain the reasons as to why the likes of Jon Snow, Callum Macrae and Channel 4 not seriously consider a documentary similar to 'Sri Lanka's Killing Fields' and 'No Fire Zone' on drone strikes in North Waziristan/Pakistan region where regular drone strikes take place and scores of innocent civilians are killed. The simple truth is that they have neither the will nor the courage to cover such acts where their lives would be in serious danger. The US military has for some time been practicing a technique known as "Double Tap". Double Tap attack in essence is a second drone attack in the same location as the first attack (follow the link http://www.policymic.com/articles/21070/predator-drone-double-taps-highlight-possible-war-crimes-by-obama for more details).

It is a human failing to gather around an explosion to see what has happened and get involved in helping the dying and the wounded. Double Tap ensures the large scale killing of those who get drawn to the dead, wounded and the rubble. It will also not spare any journalists who may be at the drone attack site. There will also be no footage for documentaries. According to UN special rapporteur on extrajudicial killings Christof Heyns, "secondary strikes on rescuers who are helping (the injured) after an initial drone attack, those further attacks are a war crime." Clive Stafford-Smith, a lawyer who heads the Anglo-US legal charity Reprieve, believes that such strikes "are like attacking the Red Cross on the battlefield. It's not legitimate to attack anyone who is not a combatant." The American military deem children as legitimate targets in the war in Afghanistan as they feel the Taliban 'may be recruiting children'. America has also been intentionally targeting funerals with the intention of killing any terrorist who may be amongst civilian mourners having come to pay their last respects to the dead.

These attacks, by any definition whether international or national law or human decency amounts to unmitigated war crimes. Why then is Channel 4, Jon Snow, Callum Macrae and more importantly Prime Minister Cameron not bringing to spotlight the atrocities committed by America using Double Tap technique and demand that the UN investigate them ? No doubt two wrongs do not make any thing right. However, when talking of accountability, how does one reconcile funding and maintaining rendition programs, black sites, drones, Kill Teams on foreign soil and a gamut of other techniques whilst pointing a sanctimonious finger at the Rajapaksa administration?

I can understand the likes of the three young Tamil women whose faces are beaming with smiles as if they did not have a care in this world appearing in a photograph with a similarly beaming Prime Minister Cameron. It is to be expected that the Tamil diaspora in UK and other countries have justifiable or un-justifiable grievances against Sri Lanka, the Sinhalese community and the Rajapaksa administration. However, what is unacceptable is the manner in which some of the non-Tamil contributors to social media both at home and abroad endorse actions of the likes of Prime Minister Cameron without making an impartial analysis of his actions, motives laying behind his actions and the actual genuineness of such actions.

If regime change is what they want, there are mechanisms for same. However, 50% of the voters gave their verdict in 2005 in favour of Mahinda Rajapakse. 58% gave their verdict in his favour in 2010. Unless and until a majority of those voters decide it is time for change, regime change is not going to happen to purely to satisfy a group of persons who do not even live in this country nor a group of persons living in the capital city of this country who do not account for even 5% of the voter base. Regime change brought about by foreign powers with or without the use of foreign troops is not sustainable as amply proven in Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya etc. It has to be through home grown efforts such as in Iran in 1979 and in the Philippines in 1986 where even the help of America did not help the Shah and Ferdinand Marcos to hold on to power. But we are nowhere near that point.

I do not wish to communicate the impression that I do not believe nor have faith in democracy and it's fundamentals. On the contrary, having lived in the Soviet Union for one year in the seventies during the height of Soviet power, I would not exchange democratic form of government for any other form. However, I stop at the point of making use of other nations, foreign organizations and foreigners to solve our problems and firmly believe in our own home grown solutions to our problems. A good example is what has just happened in Thailand. Though unhappy with the government, there were no Thais seeking the help of the Americans, Russians, Chinese, British, UN, Navi Pillay or NGOs. Further, the time to air our problems is not when world attention is focused on this country as during CHOGM. If not, we have not learnt anything from the lessons of inviting the Dutch to solve the Portuguese problem and then inviting the British to solve the Dutch problem.

To conclude, it is still not too late for correction of mistakes through home grown mechanisms. The offer from South Africa to assist is worth considering even though a fundamental difference does exist. The South African Truth and Reconciliation Commission was essentially for perpetrators of apartheid who were the final losers to own up to their misdeeds. A similar mechanism in Sri Lanka will require for the armed forces who destroyed the LTTE to own up to any misdeeds supposedly committed by them. However obtaining some form of assistance might indicate to India that Sri Lanka does have a few other friends besides China. On the other hand, failure to correct mistakes in the long term will not serve the interests of this country nor those living in this country. It will serve the interests of other countries and those living outside this country. It could also possibly lead to a situation similar to divided Cyprus. Pik Botha who was the last Foreign Minister of apartheid South Africa when asked during an interview how it felt to have finally lost out and capitulate said "to genuinely realise a mistake and correct it is neither losing out nor capitulation. It is a form of liberation". Wise words indeed for emulation in any part of the world.

Meanwhile, let us beware of those who come to this country with the expressed intent of helping us – even those human mortals with fallible human qualities but are elevated to Gods by some in this island nation of ours.





Sri Lanka coasting to $ 4000 per capita income – CB Governor

January 7, 2014, 6:22 pm

By Steve A. Morrell

With 7.1 billion in reserves and 7.2 % growth in 2013, the Sri Lankan economy was well on its way to achieving a per capita income level of $ 4000 by 2016, said Sri Lanka Central Bank Governor Ajit Nivaard Cabraal, Monday, at a panel discussion on the CB Road Map 2014.

The discussion was convened by the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce (CCC) with The Daily Financial Times. The panel discussion was chaired by the editor, Financial Times, Nistar Cassim.

Cabraal's projections for the Sri Lanka economy were progressive prosperity, based on gradual performance, since 2010.

He said unemployment and poverty, currently at low levels, were positive barometers that economic progress was on-going. Acknowledging there were yet areas that did need attention, he said the overall economic performance was one of arithmetic progression.

Robust development effected by the government had boosted the industrial sector and stimulated investment.

Tourist arrivals had increased to over one million bringing forex valued at approximately 1.5 billion dollars.

The Governor also said State Owned Enterprises were on the mend and had returned good results. The CEB and CPC were cases in point.

However, Ranjan Britto reverting to tourist arrivals said the CB figure was open to question because it was doubtful whether such arrivals were really tourists or Sri Lankans returning on holiday.

The panel discussion, in large part acceding to Cabraal's projections of economic wellbeing, also highlighted areas of weakness which demanded attention.

Cabraal also said the private sector had not taken advantage of government assistance, and there was yet a wide gap in contribution by the private sector. 'You cannot wait till the government steps in, and take a 'wait and see attitude'.





North Korean leader's doings are an eye opener for us all

January 7, 2014, 7:50 pm

By Shyamon Jayasinghe, Melbourne

On December 13th in the year that has just passed North Korean Leader ( Dictator) self-styled as "Dear Leader," Kim-Jong-Un, had his uncle Jong Song Thaek executed in public for "treachery." The uncle's three aides were also executed along with him. An extract of a news story published in the Straits Times is given below. This gives a brief snapshot about the execution. I thought of presenting this story along with a few comments for the benefit of Island readerssince this incident throws light on the character and operational path of all dictators. Kim-Jong-Un's uncle had helped to establish this young brute as successor when his father died. However, they soon fell out and the fall-out climaxed with the public execution.

Here's the Straits Times story:

"AFTER North Korean dictator Kim Jong-Un declared his uncle to be "despicable human scum, he got the latter executed in public.

The details were disclosed in a report, where unlike previous executions of political prisoners which were carried out by firing squads with machine guns, Jang Song Thaek was stripped naked and thrown into a cage, along with his five closest aides, the Straits Times reports.

"Then 120 hounds, starved for three days, were allowed to prey on them until they were completely eaten up. This is called "quanjue", or execution by dogs."

The report also said the entire process lasted for an hour, with Jong-Un, watching it along with 300 senior officials."

There appears to be a dispute regarding the nature of the execution alleged in this report, namely throwing to the dogs, but the fact of the execution is confirmed. I saw the "Dear Leader" come on Al Jazeera TV news and make a statement about his uncle having been "scum" and a "dog" and how he tried to sabotage "the revolution." This had been picked up by other global TV networks.

It is instructive for us to note the following lessons from this harrowing event and the narrative leading to it:

(1) How dictators get swallowed up by a consuming passion to bring anything and everything under control.Kim has achieved this in great speed. All obstructions on the path are mercilessly destroyed. He saw his uncle and aides as a check on his ambition. The nature of this execution shows the vindictiveness and hate that dictators develop against their "enemies."

(2) The judge who tried the unclewas obviously Kim's appointee and he gave the verdict that the Dictator wanted. This points to the danger of having a dependent judiciary. A judiciary in any country is supposed to be the last resort for those seeking relief and protection from the abuse of executives.

(3) Kim has been lying and making bogus threats all along. Dictators tend to cut corners, truth being one of the easiest to trim.

(4) Dictators tend to present to the public and the world a show of prosperity, pomp and glory. We all know that North Koreans are mostly struggling on the margins to survive. Yet, Kim and his father before him concentrated on diverting resources to building a nuclear base. One of the poorest nations of the world has thus ironically become a nuclear power.

(5) Dictators employ a lot of rhetorical jargon and catchphrases in order to communicate. The North Korean boss uses clichéd expressions like "treachery," and "revolution." We are to have faith in him when he claims to be leader of a "democratic republic." Until his death Gaddafi urged that he was heading a revolution. It was a" revolutionary struggle on behalf of the people." What the North Korean "revolution" has brought is difficult to comprehend since North Korea remains as one of the world's poorest and least developed countries in the world, in sharp contrast to South Korea, which has one of the largest and most diversified economies in the world. God help!





Standing Left : Isuru Thotahewa, Social media executive of Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts together with Louzanne Perera, Manager Public Relations of Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts handing over the holiday package to the lucky winner Dinithi Wijetunge.

Following the hosting of the Miss France pre-pageant tour, which was held from 16th to 22nd November 2013, Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts worked together with the Miss. France Organization to offer a free ski holiday for two lucky Sri Lankans which constitutes a 7 day stay in the luxurious Le Grand BournardResort along with free ski lessons at absolutely no charge at all. The winner of the competition, Dinithi Wijetunge was selected recently through a mega Facebook campaign along with promotions which took place on the TNL Radio morning show with Dilshan & Ishara. Sri Lankan Holidays proudly partnered Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts in this competition by offering two free return air tickets to France– thereby enhancing the offer as a more all-inclusive package.

"We were truly delighted to offer our own customers a chance to see France, which only became a reality due to the high levels of satisfaction experienced in our own country by the Miss. France contestants last year. It goes on to prove that the contingent enjoyed their time in Sri Lanka and the hospitality offered by Cinnamon. We certainly hope to embark on many more ventures of this nature which will only help us promote our country further across the globe and create strong ties with one another", said Louzanne Perera, ManagerPublic Relations of Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts. "We wish to thank Sri Lankan Holidays and TNL Radio for partnering with us in this effort and we wish Dinithi and her mother a wonderful holiday in France."

The winner of the competition, Miss. Dinithi Wijetunge was absolutely elated with her big win and will be flying to France early next month to redeem her grand prize.

"This has truly been a dream come true for me and I am so excited about this trip. I would like to thank Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts, Sri Lankan Holidays and TNL radio for giving me this amazing opportunity", she said.





The Grade 5 Scholarship Exam and psychological stress What are the alternatives?

A psychiatrist's point of view

January 7, 2014, 5:24 pm

By Dr. Sajeewana Amarasinghe

Psychiatrist, Base Hospital,Puttalam.

The Education Minister's proposal to do away with the grade 5 scholarship exam created a huge uproar in the country. Apparently the National Educational Commission took this decision taking into consideration the psychological impact of this exam on primary school children. But many thought this was an attempt to block the only pathway available for a talented rural child to enter a prestigious school in a major city. As a provincial psychiatrist working in one of Sri Lanka's most underprivileged districts I certainly agree that scrapping the scholarship exam will be a drastic step that will have serious socio economic implications. But I believe that we need to make some adjustments to this exam to reduce the immense psychological burden on primary school children.

Many children in grade 4 and 5 present to me with vague physical complaints like headache and abdominal pain. They have been investigated by paediatricians and no medical basis found for their symptoms. The parents will often tell how their easy going and lovable child has recently become irritable and moody. They throw temper tantrums at the slightest provocation. When I interview the child alone it becomes clear that most of them have got anxious due to the impending scholarship exam. Many parents have little idea of their child's scholastic abilities and push children to achieve unrealistic goals. The child becomes worried that he or she will not be able to fulfill the parent's high expectations.

During the last two decades the grade 5 scholarship has become extremely competitive. The huge media publicity given to the top scorers has made things worse. Most parents who have missed out at grade 1 try to use the scholarship exam to get admission to a popular school. One cannot blame them as it is the only mechanism available to an ordinary parent with no connections. But, a child needs to score at least 90 percent to enter one of the more popular schools. This is a big task for a 10-year-old child as it leaves very little margin for error.

Therefore, many parents push their kids to the maximum and send themto two or even three tuition classes. All extracurricular and leisure activities are stopped and thechild is forced to cram for long hours. Most 10-year-olds are naturally quite playful and not too keen on studies. Therefore this exam creates a great deal of anxiety and some may actually need psychological intervention. Of course, there will be some very mature kids who will study independently and get good results. But these children are usually the exception rather than the rule. Most children will have to be forced to study at this age!

I think the main cause of the stress for both children and parents is the intense competition to enter a popular school. An increase in the slots available in the popular schools will be a major step to reduce the competition. Most of the leading government schools have around 50 children in a primary class. Therefore, the number of places available for scholars in Grade 6 has declined.

The minister of Education hopes that with the development of 1,000 secondary schools the need to enter popular schools will not arise. But we need to remember the fact that only very few recently established schools have reached the level of the old traditional educational institutions. This too was due to the efforts of their pioneering principals. Many new schools started with much fanfare wither away after a few years. Therefore it is left to be seen whether any of these newly developed 1000 schools can match the old established schools.

I believe that the improvement of the well-established provincialcentral schools and semi urban schools to national standards may help reduce the high demand for city schools. In today's context this will involve the improvement of facilities for education as well as sports and extracurricular activities. In this context a good example is Rathnavali Balika Vidyalaya, Gampaha which has consistently produced outstanding results at the national level at public examinations in recent years. Now many parents living in Gampaha opt to keep their children in this school even if they get the opportunity of getting admission to a Colombo school. I believe the establishment of around 50 well equipped provincial schools on par with the popular schools will lead to a reduction in the intense competition.

If the government gives continuous support these schools too will gradually develop their own reputations as centres of excellence and start their own old boy and old girl networks! This will probably be more practical than attempting to establish 1,000 popular schools when we consider the limited resources in our country.

The Education ministry decision to simplify the exam seems to be a step in the right direction. But it is left to be seen whether this will actually reduce the stress on children. Giving a very easy paper might result in the cut off marks to enter a popular school reach very high levels. (e.g. 99% or 100%) This will intensify the stress as there will be absolutely no margin for error! It will also make it difficult to pick out the really brilliant kids as many will score very high marks.

Instead the scholarship exam should be modified to reduce the amount of rote learning needed. It should be a test of academic potential rather than of knowledge. The focus needs to be on testing intelligence, language skills and mathematics. This will probably reduce the need for attending multiple tuition classes and long hours of cramming. It will also improve the identification of truly gifted children.

We have to accept that the selection at the current scholarship exam is by no means perfect. Many children who pass the scholarship with flying colours fail to perform well at higher exams. The obverse is also true as there are many who perform poorly at the grade 5 scholarship exam but do well at the Advanced level exam.A look at the top performers at the recent AL examinations will show that many children from rural schools have outperformed their city counterparts. Most of these children have missed out on entering a prestigious school at the grade 5 scholarship.

Some advocate a postponement of the scholarship exam to grade 8. This proposal has some merit as the child will be more mature and ready to face a competitive exam. Hopefully, the involvement of parents, too, will become less intense! Parents may also have a better idea of the child's academic potential. This will prevent academically average children getting unnecessarily harassed to achieve goals that are way beyond their capabilities.

The education ministry should also consider introducing a formal pathway whereby rural school children who excel in sports and extracurricular activities too could enter a leading school. A certain number places in popular schools could be reserved for children who excel in sports and other extracurricular activities such as music and dancing. This probably needs to be done around grade 8 or 9 in order to pick out the really talented kids. It will create an alternative pathway for children who are not academically inclined. Of course, this already happens in an informal manner even now as some big schools recruit outstanding sportsman from smaller schools by offering scholarships. Even some of the exclusive private schools are known to do this. But it is unfortunately restricted to the glamour sports like Cricket and Rugby.

Although I don't agree with the proposal to scrap the scholarship exam I am glad that the Education minister and his officials have some understanding of the psychological impact of this exam on children. I hope that they will modify this exam so that primary school children can enjoy their childhood without the undue burden of a highly competitive exam.





Police competition to tap new crime fighting innovations

January 7, 2014, 10:13 pm

By Madura Ranwala

Police Headquarters yesterday announced that a 'Hardware and Software Competition' for new innovations would be held parallel to the 'Deyata Kirula Exhibition' to be held from February 2 to 10 at Kuliyapitiya.

Police spokesman SSP Ajith Rohana told The Island that the competition would be a novel experience to individuals or companies or groups keen to use computer technology to combat crime as the police needed to update its system to facilitate investigations.

Sub Inspector Roshan Gangewatte, assigned to apprise media of the new exhibition at the 'Deyata Kirula', said that any person interested in creating a new method that would help police with investigations could contact DIG, Information Technology Division, Police Headquarters, Colombo 01, before January 15.





Sri Lanka to address first innings woes

Sri Lankan opener Kaushal Silva during a net session on 7th January 2014 at Dubai Sports City. The second Test between Sri Lanka and Pakistan begins today in Dubai.

by our Special Correspondent

in Dubai

One of the areas that Sri Lanka will focus on in today's second Test against Pakistan here in Dubai is to come up with an improved first innings batting performance. In recent times, Sri Lanka have found themselves under pressure in Tests due to poor first innings batting performances.

Sri Lanka were shot out for 204 runs after being put into bat first in the first Test in Abu Dhabi, but fought back admirably to save the game against many odds.

"It was a tremendous performance in Abu Dhabi and the boys deserve a lot of credit for the way they performed in Abu Dhabi. We have addressed where we need to improve," Sri Lanka skipper Angelo Mathews, who was named Man of the Match for his fighting unbeaten 157 told journalists. Mathews also fought a lone battle in Sri Lanka's first innings making 91 runs before being last man out.

Sri Lanka's lack of Test wins in the last three years are owing to two reasons. While the team lacks fire power in the bowling department, the batsmen haven't helped the team's cause with some poor batting particularly in the first innings.

The Sri Lankans have an interesting take on the issue. While they believe that too much cannot be done with the lack of fire power in the bowling, they believe the woes with their first innings batting are very much within their control.

Another big positive for the Sri Lankans during the opening Test was that several young players came up with impressive performances. While star batsman Kumar Sangakkara had modest success making 16 and 55, Mahela Jayawardene, was disappointing only making five and a duck in the opening Test.

Sri Lanka are likely to leave out off-spinner Sachithra Senanayake and replace him with Dilruwan Perera. For Pakistan, meanwhile, wicketkeeper Adnan Akmal has been ruled out with injury. He has been replaced by Sarfraz Ahmed.

For Sri Lanka, top order batsman Kusal Janith was flown into UAE after Lahiru Thirimanne twisted his ankle while Nuwan Kulasekara sustained a hamstring injury. Both players have returned home.





Micromax introduces the Canvas Tab

January 7, 2014, 6:55 pm

Micromax, India's leading handset manufacturer, today announced the launch of its first flagship tablet in the Canvas series with The Canvas Tab P650. Exemplifying great style combined with superior technology, the device aims to be the perfect companion for people who want to stay connected on the move. The Canvas Tab comes with a slew of latest software and hardware features that offer seamless and enhanced user experience. After pioneering the edutainment category in the tablet market and truly democratizing the Indian smartphone eco-system with the Canvas series of smartphones, the company now promises to extend the Canvas experience to the tablet PC category.

Commenting on the launch, Sanjeev Ariaratnam, country manager for Micromax Sri Lanka said, "With the Canvas Tab, we are offering consumers a unique combination of superior technology complemented with unmatched style. It reinforces our commitment to massify and democratize technology by empowering the consumers with the best and most unique innovations that offer great value for them."

He further added, "With today's launch, we aim to extend the Canvas experience to our users on the tablet PC's, supported by an entire eco-system of applications. The Canvas Tab promises a seamless experience to the consumers."

Adding oomph and style quotient, the Canvas Tab shows off a light and sleek design with full aluminum body. Sporting an 8" IPS full touch display, this new device promises excellent graphic quality its user.









The Postal Department and its network were service oriented, he said thus they were in a position to finance their operations. "We are faced with the challenge of using new technology and bringing the postal service back on track. Business letter circulation has increased compared to the past few years," he noted.

The Post Master General also said in November last year the speed post service had been introduced to deliver letters and parcels within city limits and suburbs.

Abeyrathne also said there were 16 Close Circuit Television Cameras (CCTV) installed at the Central Mail Exchange to minimise filtering.

"This will be increased to 24 depending on the need by installing another eight CCTVs. Discussions are also under way with officials to install a scanner at the Central Mail Exchange," he said.





Bens vs. Dharmaraja heading for draw!

It all points to another draw, as a delayed start and a mere 182 minutes play on day one, condemned St. Benedicts and Dharmaraja to adopt safety measures.

When play was called off around 5.30, the Benedictines certainly had the upper hand. They had accumulated their runs at a little over four an over, thanks to solid half-centuries from Nimesh Fonseka and Shiras Ratnayake. Mahela Jayalath also chipped in.

The wickets were shared among five bowlers of whom off-spinner Tharusha Weragoda had the best figures.





Fertilizer Distribution Centres to meet farmer needs

January 7, 2014, 6:29 pm

Measures will be taken to establish a Fertilizer Distribution Centre and a Fertilizer Warehouse for all 554 Agrarian Service Centres established islandwide. This programme will be implemented so as to streamline the current methodology of distributing fertilizer and to ensure that adequate amounts of fertilizer are supplied to farmers at the guaranteed price of the government.

The ultimate target of this programme is to convert all the Agrarian Service Centers of the island into centers where farmers are able to fulfill all their needs under one roof, a press release from the Ministry of Finance and Planning said.

The release adds: 'The instructions in this respect were given at a discussion held at the Ministry of Finance and Planning chaired by Dr. P.B. Jayasundera, Secretary to the Treasury with the participation of officials of the Ministry of Agriculture and representatives of the Government Owned Fertilizer Companies.

'Approximately, 750,000 metric tons of fertilizers are imported to Sri Lanka per year and over Rs. 50 billion is expended for the said purpose. Fertilizer subsidy granted by the government has resulted in motivating the farmers into farming and to encouraging them to generate higher income through farming. A proper methodology ought to be followed in using fertilizer as application of chemical fertilizer upto a certain extent is essential in order to obtain the expected harvest from a crop.

'Dr. Jayasudera instructed the relevant officers to increase the government contribution in the distribution of fertilizer in the local market up to 40% to ensure that fertilizer subsidy is granted to farmers without a shortage.

'Fertilizer subsidy programme has been continued by the government for nine years and it has already completed the payment of Rs. 6,600 billion which was due to the private sector for the implementation of fertilizer subsidy programme. Government has taken all the necessary steps to supply a 50 kg bag of fertilizer at price of Rs. 350/- for paddy cultivation and to supply the same at a price of Rs. 1250/- for all other crops without a shortage in the future too.





Bourse catches up Monday's lost ground

January 7, 2014, 6:23 pm

The Colombo bourse yesterday recovered ground lost the previous day with both indices gaining comfortably on a turnover of Rs.716.3 million, up from the previous day's Rs.462.1 million, with 137 gainers ahead of 76 losers while 109 counters closed flat.

The day's biggest trades came off crossings in HNB (voting) where over 1.5 million shares were done in two parcels at a price of Rs.150 per share contributing Rs.228.1 million to turnover. Brokers said that one parcel accounted for a million shares and the other for 520,000.

There was also a single crossing of over 0.1 million JKH at a price of Rs.227.50 contributing Rs.24.35 million to the day's turnover.

"There was continuous buying on JKH with nearly 0.4 million shares done on the floor with the counter closing 50 cents up at Rs.228 contributing Rs.85.8 million to turnover," a broker said. ``The share traded between a low of Rs.227 and a high of Rs.228.''

There was also interest in JKH warrants with W0022 closing 4.30 up at Rs.84.90 on over 0.2 million and W0023 closing Rs.4.60 up on 49,098 transacted.

Institutional interest was seen in Expolanka where 3.8 million shares were done between Rs.7.90 and Rs.8.40 with the counter closing 10 cents up at Rs.8.10 contributing Rs.30.9 million to turnover.

Over 0.2 Million Commercial Bank (voting) were transacted in small parcels with the counter closing Rs.2.10 up at Rs.123 trading between Rs.121.90 and Rs.123 with analysts noting that the 52-week high for this stock was Rs.126.

Chevron saw nearly 0.1 million shares done closing Rs.4.90 up at Rs.274.90 with brokers saying that the trades included a couple of large parcels in relation to the total quantity traded.

Lion closed 10 cents up at Rs.357.50 on 51,600 shares, Tokyo (voting) closing Rs.1.90 up Rs.30.20 on nearly 0.6 million shares and Union Bank closed 80 cents up at Rs.17.60 on 0.9 million shares.

"The counter attracted interest in the light of reports that there was foreign interest in a stake in the bank. The share hit a high of Rs.18.10 in intraday trading," a broker said.

The day's low for UBC was Rs.16.70 with analysts noting that the Rs.18.10 high yesterday was still below the 52-week high of Rs.23.70 posted by this share.

HNB (non-voting) closed 10 cents up at Rs.117 on over 0.1 million shares, Tokyo (non-voting) 20 cents up at Rs.25.20 on over 0.5 million shares and NTB closed 70 cents up at Rs.63.50 on nearly 0.2 million shares.





Lanka looks up to the Philippines as the model in exporting workers to foreign countries - Dilan

*Lanka to sign pact with Manila for training workers

January 7, 2014, 10:19 pm

Foreign Employment Promotion and Welfare Minister Dilan Perera explains Lanka's plan to train its workforce during a roundtable with editors and reporters of Manila Times. On his left is secretary to the Ministry of Foreign Employment Promotion and Welfare Nissanka Wijeratne. Pic courtesy Manila Times

When it comes to exporting workers to foreign countries, Sri Lanka looks up to the Philippines as the model, Foreign Employment Promotion and Welfare Minister Dilan Perera told Manila Times.

Minister Perera who is on a three day visit to the Philippines in an interview with Manila Times said that he and Philippines Labour Secretary Rosalinda Baldoz would sign a memorandum of understanding for training Sri Lankan workers in the Philippines.

Manila Times quoted the minister having said that Lankan workers needed to be trained because there is a boom in the hotel industry in Sri Lanka.

A Shangri-La Hotel is being built in Colombo and its employees are being trained in Shangri-La hotels in the Philippines.

Perera said Sri Lanka is bent on improving the skills of its human labour. "It is in this area where we need the help of the Philippines, since your country has good training modules. Your labour force is well skilled and in fact being looked up as model of all foreign-workers sending countries," he told Manila Times. He added that the Philippines is considered as a training hub of workers.

Perara said his visit is in preparation for the April Abu Dhabi Dialogue, also called "Troika" or a meeting of top labour officials of Abu Dhabi, the Philippines and Kuwait.

He said the three countries formed a group, rotating the chairmanship every two years. This year's chairman is the Philippines.

"I find it is very helpful to hold a meeting with Secretary Baldoz and signing a MOA even before the Troika meeting to iron out agreements wherein our workers could avail of training here in the Philippines," Perera said.

"We want to copy the Philippines in areas such as pre-departure, skills training, recruitment, qualification and even database," he added.

Perera said workers should not be treated as commodities but as human beings, and the Philippines is very sensitive in this area with its 10mn migrant workers deployed all over the world.

The Philippines' foreign workers remittance is the third in the world, behind India ($71bn) and China ($60bn).

Perera said that if there is one thing that the Philippines should imitate from Sri Lanka, is their practice of preventing a domestic helper from leaving the country if she has a child below five years old.

"We require them to submit a family background report. If we find the woman to be leaving a child of five years old, then we don't allow them. It is in our culture that a young child should be under the care of his or her mother," said Perera.

He added that they also raised the age requirement for domestic workers from 18 to 21. "For those bound for Saudi Arabia, the domestic workers must be 25 years old," he said. Perera said the shift from domestic helper to skilled labour is designed to give their citizens a better pay. Thousands of Sri Lankans work in garment factories in South Korea, Bahrain, Dubai, Cyprus and Italy, while professional workers like doctors and engineers work in Oman.

Perera said the Philippines is considered a model when it comes to skilled workers. He said in the California Disneyland alone, more than half of the workforce are Filipinos.

Sri Lanka, he said, is not afraid of the so-called "brain drain" because they have a programme called "brain gain."

He explained that after six to eight years of working abroad, Sri Lankans come home and use their skills to put up their own businesses or to be absorbed by big companies.

"We have reintegration programme for returning overseas workers. We are now working to give them pensions and insurance, among others, which are stipulated in the New Migration Authority Act," he said.

Accompanying Perera was Nissanka Wijeratne, the secretary of Ministry of Foreign Employment Promotion and Welfare.





People's Leasing and Finance PLC, the foremost finance company and the market-leader in Sri Lanka's non-banking finance sector kicked started the year 2014 with a generous CSR activity.

The company donated two Tipper vehicles to the Civil Security Department of Sri Lanka to be used in the latter's program on restoration of religious places and providing infrastructure for various entities. At a function held on January 01, 2014 at the People's Leasing head office, Chairman Gamini S. Senerath, the Chairman of People's Bank and People's Leasing Group officially handed over the two vehicles to Rear Admiral Ananda Peiris, Director General of Civil Security Department. The occasion was graced by Directors of People's Leasing ; P. Kudabalage, Anura Chandrasiri, Vasantha Kumar, CEO /General Manager D. P. Kumarage, Deputy General Managers, Officers of Civil Security Department and the head office staff members.





Additional Magistrate of Colombo Niroshani Fernando yesterday re-remanded till January 21, 2014, the Officer-in-Charge of the Wellampitiya Police Station, Chief Inspector Bandara Munasinghe and two other suspects, Senaka Madurusinghe and Fathima Fasseem, who had allegedly aided and abetted Bandara in drug trafficking.

OIC Bandara Munasinghe is alleged to have retained 42 g of heroin in his official residence at Wellampitiya.

Counsel Guneratne Wanninayake told the court that politicians who engaged in drug trafficking conspired against officers who did not help them.

Before arresting the police should here themselves checked whether the 42 g recovered was heroin or otherwise. They had sent it to the Government Analyst, he said. The analyst's report should be immediately submitted to the court, the counsel added.

Counsel Wanninayake submitted to court a telephone number of a politician on the instructions of his client.





Balangoda Plantations achieves top prices

January 7, 2014, 6:27 pm

The following Marks of Balangoda Plantations PLC managed by Stassens Group have fetched top prices for its teas sold at the Colombo Tea Auction under Uva High and Uva Medium Categories at the sale of 30th December 2013.





Police duo who went on an illegal assignment assaulted, tied to trees

January 7, 2014, 10:08 pm

A sub inspector and a sergeant who tried to get a bus released from a garage by force at Gannoruwa were assaulted by villagers there on Monday night and handed over to the Peradeniya police after tying them to trees.

The two officers and six others who tried to obtain the release of the vehicle were arrested by the Peradeniya police following the incident were scheduled to be produced in court yesterday afternoon.

According to investigations a bus owner from Hingurakgoda had given his bus for repairs to the garage at Gannaoruwa two years ago. He had also paid Rs.200,000 to the garage to effect the repairs.

As the bus had not been repaired even after two years, its owner had got the two police officers known to him and several others to go with him to the garage on Monday night.

At the time only the garage owner and his wife had been there. When the bus owner and his accomplices assaulted the

garage owner and demanded back the money given to repair the bus, the resulting commotion drew the villagers to the scene and immediately apprehended the intruders.

The two officers apprehended by the villagers while on an illegal private assignment in civvies are a sub inspector attached to the Kandy police and a sergeant attached to the Kegalle police





HDFC bank the pioneer in the housing financial sector of Sri Lanka opened its 33rd branch at No.71, Main Street, Tissamaharama with Speaker Chamal Rajapaksa as the Chief Guest.

During the year 2013 HDFC bank has granted a sum of Rs.6.8 billion among 23,414 customers as housing loans. Besides, the bank also offers provisions in the sectors of education, small scale businesses, micro finance facilities, leasing, gold loans, lifestyle loans and many more, extending a wider service throughout Sri Lanka to its customers. The retirement investment schemes and plans introduced by the bank enabling its customers, comfort and convenience in their retirement life, fixed deposit accounts as well as children's savings plans with attractive returns have offered numerous benefits to its customers. The wider coverage of HDFC bank that includes even the Northern and Eastern provinces and the mobile banking facilities extended via its branches in all regions have enable the bank to offer a speedier and efficient service to its entire customer base.

The latest branch at Tissamaharama has been established and opened with the objective of providing a greater assistance and contribution to fulfill the emerging financial necessities of the communities who see the booming economic trends and developments in the region.

Expressing views at the opening of Tissamaharama Branch of HDFC bank, Speaker Chamal Rajapaksa stated that the people's investments at informal financial institutions spread in the suburb have resulted numerous difficulties and inconveniences to the communities. "Therefore, it is the timely responsibility of the Government banks to educate the people, safeguard and guide them towards correct means of financial savings and investments," he said. The Speaker also added that the HDFC bank has a greater potential to extend its services to empower the women folk in the area who have engaged in a number of influential women's societies and associations implemented in the region to upgrade the economies of their family units.





CLC ranked among the top ten hotels in Sri Lanka on Tripadvisor

January 7, 2014, 6:52 pm

Not only satisfied with receiving a 'Certificate of Excellence' award, Cinnamon Lakeside continues it's triumphant winning streak being ranked among the top ten island wide in theTripadvisor Travellers' Choice award. A popular internet based travel site, Tripadvisor markets hotels, flights etc., for the discerning tourist. We are also proud to note that Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo is the only city hotel amongst the top fifteen in Sri Lanka which demonstrates again our reputation for service excellence.

When it comes to those crucial choices in rating hotels, there is only one thing that sets the standards. The guest who stays and experiences the services of the hotel. As such, it is indeed a privilege to be honoured with this prestigious award.

Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo is no foreigner to winning. Among some of the accolades captured by the hotel is the Best Five Star City Hotel awarded for 2 years running. The Best Luxury Hotel at the Business Destinations Awards 2012. The only Sri Lankan hotel to be recertified for the Green Globe Standard for the 4th consecutive year along with gathering a Merit Award at the EU Switch Asia Greening Sri Lankan Hotels Awards 2013. Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo was also conferred an A+ grade at the Colombo Municipal Council Food Safety Excellence Awards 2013.

Sprawling over seven acres of perfectly manicured gardens by the banks of the serene and tranquil Beira Lake, this unique resort hotel presents you with a vast array of choices of impeccable accommodations, restaurants that keeps you coming back for more, state-of-the-art facilities, entertainment for all ages and moods. You only have to choose the memories you want to make. Cinnamon Lakeside's priority is to make sure that the guest is indulged in every whim and an award such as this embodies the very spirit of the hotel. Knowing that our guests have gone away happy and contented means much more than all awards received. The Tripadvisor Travellers Choice award carries more weight as this is bestowed by the guests themselves. One of the world's principal travel sites, it offers trusted guidance from true guests to make diverse travel selections and arrangements going a long way to making travellers' lives easier.





The government on the correct path

January 7, 2014, 5:28 pm

By Nalin de Silva

There is only one way to defeat England and the other western countries who would attempt in Geneva to rap Sri Lanka for alleged war crimes during the last two weeks of the humanitarian operations, and that is by organizing the other countries. Stephen Rapp is coming to Sri Lanka followed by Nisha Desai Biswal, to find out ways and means to rap Sri Lanka in connection with so called war crimes. Let them write their reports, then come to have a chat with some members of the government, NGO personalities known as peace vendors, TNA members, may be some clergy in certain denominations, and go back and issue the report that had been already written with a change of a comma or a full stop here and there. The Sri Lankans, especially the Sinhala Buddhists are used to these exercises and they know that their views are never represented in these reports. How many Rapps have met representatives of the Sinhala Buddhists on their visits to the country? It is clear that as far as these Rapps coming to rap Sri Lanka are concerned there is nothing to be learnt from the Sinhala Buddhist Chauvinists who are neither objective nor open minded, whatever these words may mean.

Why don't the westerners consult the Sinhala Buddhist opinion not only on the alleged violations of the human rights during the last two weeks of the humanitarian operations but also on the Tamil problem in general? Who has been discriminated against during the last three hundred and fifty years or so? The Portuguese destroyed Buddhist temples and violated human rights of the Sinhala Buddhists but they were not discriminatory. They "treated" the Sinhala Buddhists, the Tamil Hindus and Muslims alike, and did not use any community against another. They were interested in spreading Catholicism among the "heathens" and used very cruel methods against all the people living in the country in converting them. However, they were not successful and only a very small percentage of Sinhala people became Catholics during that period. Ironically more Sinhalas have converted to Catholicism when the Dutch were here. The Portuguese were most unsuccessful among the Muslims who in general supported the Sinhala people and the kings. The Sinhalas had never tried to convert Muslims to Buddhism as the latter is not a missionary religion, though some pundits attempt to project Arhat Mahinda Thera as a missionary. It is history that the Muslims were protected by the Sinhala kings from the Portuguese, and the present Muslim population in the eastern province consists of descendants of those harassed Muslims who were settled in those areas by the Sinhala Buddhist kings.

The Muslims worldwide are fighting a battle against cultural domination by the Judaic Christian culture, and in Sri Lanka despite some Muslim leaders who act only in their personal interests should not attempt to support the westerners by acting against the Sinhala people. When I travelled in the eastern province few months ago, I found that some Muslims are trying to convert those areas to a little Arabia artificially. Muslims at present are undoubtedly aggressive vis-à-vis the Judaic Christian culture but that is not a reason for them to be belligerent against the Sinhala people. The Muslims were not forced by the Sinhala people to change their customs and it will remain the same, and the Muslims have protected their identity all these years living among the Sinhalas. Thus it is not desirable for the Muslims in Sri Lanka to make their identity present forcefully in a way that is not found in some other countries.

Unity of not only among the Muslims and Sinhalas but with the Tamil Hindus is desirable in the fight against the cultural political and economic domination of the Greek Judaic Christian Chinthanaya. When the Chief Minister of the Northern Province claims that Sri Lanka is not a Buddhist country, then it implies that we are a Christian culture as Christian is the default culture in the world. There are no 'secular' countries in the world, contrary to what the pundits say, and as Christian culture is the hegemonic culture in the world, any country that is not identified with any other culture is Christian by default. The western pundits encourage their imitators in our countries to call ourselves a secular nation, knowing very well by their strategy we would become Christian in practice.

The Dutch and the English, unlike the Portuguese, discriminated against the Sinhala Buddhists especially with respect to the Tamils and wanted the latter to give leadership to the country. We are still to rectify matters arising out of this discrimination and the Tamil problem has arisen as a result of educated Tamils not wanting to lose the privileges that they enjoyed first under the Dutch and then under the English. England is all out to see that the Sinhala Buddhists are discriminated against even the Muslims though the latter are hated by those belonging to the Christian culture in the west in general.

The English and the other westerners did not want the LTTE to be defeated by the Sri Lanka armed forces and wanted to rescue Prabhakaran and his gang even at the last minute so that at least an Eelam in exile could be established. It is the failure by the west to achieve this ambition that has led the England led west to frame charges of war crimes against the president, the Defense Secretary and the Armed forces. It is a case of rapping of Sinhalas by Rapps and is nothing but taking revenge for the defeat of the west. It was not only the LTTE that was defeated in Nandikadal but the west as well.

The west is bound to come up with false statistics claiming genocide, though there are millions of Tamils living in Sri Lanka, and the claims that so many thousands of Tamils were killed during the last two weeks of the humanitarian operations are based on nothing but assumptions as to the number of Tamils who were confined to a human shield by Prabhakaran. There is no evidence in the form of dead bodies of so many thousands killed. Though the west and the Tamil leaders claim that there were no witnesses to the humanitarian operations at least two Indian journalists Reddy and Kanchan Prasad had been in the relevant areas during the last two weeks, but the Rapps, Pillays are not prepared to talk to them on what happened during the "crucial" two weeks of the operations. As they say there are lies, damn lies and statistics.

There is no point in trying to convince the west that there were no war crimes or trying to win them over by promising to implement Thirteen Plus or even beyond that. The west will not be satisfied by such devolution as what they want is a separate country, and as during the humanitarian operations they will threaten us with actions similar to withdrawing GSP plus, and imposing of economic sanctions. We should not get scared by the "gonibillas" and should try to win the other countries in the human rights council to defeat the plans of the UK, the US and other western countries.

It is in this connection that the efforts by the President to cultivate friendships with other countries and to strengthen friendships already established have to be commended. The west is not the world and we would not be isolated merely because England does not like the face of the Rajapaksas. We should work to isolate the west in Geneva in March, and we should remember that there are so many countries in the world that do not like the bullies in the west who somehow or other try to maintain colonialism through other means. It is not neo colonialism, but colonialism and the President, as we have said very often could play a leading role in organizing the countries that do not follow the west into a strong association.





UL 503 in double jeopardy in one day

January 7, 2014, 10:10 pm

By Shamindra Ferdinando

The windshield of the Heathrow bound UL 503 which had cracked about 45 minutes after delayed take-off from Bandaranaike International Airport (BIA) on the afternoon of January 3 was the very one replaced due to a defect earlier in the day, a SriLankan airlines spokesperson said yesterday.

Responding to a query by 'The Island', Media Relations Manager of SriLankan Deepal V. Perera acknowledged that the replacement of the windshield caused a delay.

Some of those on board the Airbus A 330-200 said that the first scheduled departure had to be delayed by 30-40 minutes.

Perera said that the Flight/Ground Safety Division was handling the internal investigation. Asked whether the SriLankan airlines had furnished all required information to the Civil Aviation Department to facilitate its investigation, the spokesman said the airline was fully cooperating with the department.

Passengers quoted the Captain of the aircraft as having said that as the windshield could have got blown off the cockpit crew wore oxygen masks. In online comment posted on The Aviation Herald, passenger Zoe Martin said that having taken off from BIA, the flight resorted to what he called roll of the plane to come down rapidly and also to regain some pressure in cabin. Martin quoted the pilot as having said: "I'm sorry for the unscheduled descend. I have a serious problem with a hole in the window. We are heading back to Colombo, approximately 240 miles away. The plane at this moment is under control and will inform if the situation changes."

However, SriLankan spokesperson insisted that there had never been a loss of pressure or altitude due to the crack in the windshield. The flight was descended to a lower altitude as a precautionary measure under the total control of the pilot in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendation.

Another passenger Raj Desai said that the flight rapidly descended to 10,000 feet after the pilot reported the crack in the windshield. "When we de-embarked from the plane the windscreen was 100 per cent shattered. Desai revealed that he had written to both Civil Aviation Authority as well as the SriLankan airlines.

Another passenger said that the whole right-side front windshield had been completely shattered and was caved into aircraft as well. It seemed that the frame around the window too was caved in.





SLAA sticks to second string team for Lusophony Games

January 7, 2014, 9:19 pm

by Reemus Fernando

Despite calls to increase the number of participants, the Sri Lanka Athletics Association is likely to stick to the 18-member second string team the selectors have chosen for the forthcoming Lusophony Games to be held in Goa, India from January 18-29.

A senior official of the SLAA said that the selectors had a reason for selecting a second string team and the SLAA will stick to the team they have chosen.

"We will have Asian Games and Commonwealth Games this year. Most of the top athletes are aiming at these two international events. The selectors decided to chose a second string team to allow the top athletes concentrate on the Asian Games and the Commonwealth Games," a senior official told The Island yesterday.

There have been calls from different quarters to increase the number of participants for different sports after Goa officials expressed their willingness to host a large Sri Lankan contingent.

An official of the SLAA said that even some athletes who were chosen for the Goa event withdrew to concentrate on the Asian Games and the Commonwealth Games.





BoC offers Ran Kekulu Gifts for year 1 and pre-school admissions

January 7, 2014, 6:36 pm

Bank of Ceylon, Sri Lanka's No.1 Bank offers the Ran Kekulu Gift scheme for year 1 and pre-school admissions. This program is launched in addition to all the other benefits linked to this account. The bank offers tills, story books and exercise books under this gift scheme. Apart from those gifts there is a "Cash to Cash" incentive up to a maximum of Rs.500/- in which the bank will credit a sum equivalent to the sum deposited to the Ran Kekulu account.

All you have to do is open a Ran- Kekulu account with a minimum of Rs.100/- or deposit Rs.100/- or more to an existing account within the period 1st January to 31st January 2014 to obtain these exciting gifts.

The Bank of Ceylon Ran Kekulu account is the best gift you can give your child. It will give your child an additional interest rate of 1%. This account is also linked with free life insurance cover for the parent or guardian to a maximum of Rs.500,000/- (minimum balance of Rs.5000/- to be maintained for a period of six months prior to the incident). Any parent or guardian who opened BoC Ran Kekulu accounts for more than one child will be covered up to a maximum of Rs. 1.0 million. The child will also get a free medical insurance cover up to Rs.100,000/- per annum incase of accident or specified 10 critical illnesses requiring hospitalization more than three nights (minimum balance of Rs.5000/- should be maintained for a period of six months prior to the incident). BOC Ran Kekulu account holders are also entitled to slab-based gifts for special birthdays as per the balance in the account. Ran Kekulu account holders are entitled for a special scholarship scheme for students who have shown exemplary talent at the Grade 5 scholarship examination.

Bank of Ceylon was awarded Asia's Best Brand award 2013 by the Chief Marketing Officer's Council (CMO Council) based in Mumbai, India. Brand Finance Lanka ranked Bank of Ceylon as the No.1 Brand for the last five consecutive years and the bank is also ranked among the top 1000 banks in the world above all other Sri Lankan banks (country ranking is No.1) by "The Banker" magazine UK in 2013. BOC has penetrated half of the population in the country with 10 million account holders with over 1,000 customer touch points covering all parts of the country. The Bank of Ceylon won a hat-trick for the second consecutive year at the National Business Excellence awards ceremony organized by NCCSL in 2013. Bank of Ceylon is also the only Sri Lankan bank with an international presence, with branches in Chennai, Male, and subsidiary in London, soon to be expanded to include the Seychelles.





CEB to order fuel requirements early

January 7, 2014, 10:09 pm

By Ifham Nizam

The Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) is expected to provide a comprehensive generation plan to the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (CPC), spelling out the oil requirements for its plants and others owned by the Independent Power Producers (IPPs) for the next four months.

The CPC currently has sufficient stocks to cater to the country's power needs, officials say timely requests by both institutions will give the CPC the edge when calling for international tenders.

CPC Managing Director Susantha Silva told The Island that everything would depend on the CEB requirement. However, he said that oil could come from any country depending on the bidding. He said that it could be from Singapore, Dubai, Malaysia or Thailand.

He stressed that deals would be struck according in keeping with the tender procedure.

Meanwhile, the CEB said as for oil supplies there would not be many changes compared to previous years other than the quantity of low sulphur fuel which would be reduced drastically by April with the commissioning of the second stage of the coal fired power plant shortly. An engineer told The Island unlike on previous occasions the country could save billions of rupees because this time around the CPC need not go for spot deals as on the previous occasions.

He said that last year they had been able to cut down on fuel quantities due to rains.





Plight of the non-pensionable senior citizens

January 7, 2014, 7:48 pm

Whilst appreciating the plight of the retired old entrant pensioners whose plight has been highlighted on and off for an upward revision, it is indeed sad to reflect upon the lot of senior citizens who have served well in various capacities in the non-pensionable mercantile sector, state corporations and institutions, now struggling to survive on the meager interest earned on their retirement benefits placed in 'safe' fixed deposits (F.D.) in the various local banks. This is especially so in the case of the large majority of retirees depending for their livelihood solely on such earned interest, with no other steady monthly income. With the added burden to be borne on the rising cost of drugs and medical expenses, these elders and their dependents are being pushed further and further below the poverty line!

Though the salaries of surviving senior citizens, who joined the private and corporate sector in the 1950s/1960s, seemed attractive at that time (as per the then prevailing cost of living), this works out to a mere pittance when compared to the earnings of corresponding counterparts presently in service (as per the existing CoL). The earned retirement benefits from EPF and ETF accrued on the then 'low' salaries, works out to a meager sum at today's value, which on investment in F.D.s in local banks at prevailing low interest rates, generates an income that is quite out of step with the ever rising high CoL. What is worse is that the interest rate paid on F.D.s in the local banks keeps changing periodically to lower rates as per the assessments made by the Monetary Board of the Central Bank! Such periodical changes in the interest rates paid by the local banks are totally out of step with the ever rising CoL and is often inversely related with the latter!

The very modest higher interest rate of 1% presently paid to senior citizens above the prevailing rate, is very inadequate to compensate for the periodical downward spiraling bank interest rates. In order to offer some relief as per the prevailing and ever rising high CoL, the authorities should seriously consider a higher revised rate to senior citizens at a minimum of 3% above the usual bank interest rate!









SQ flight from London makes emergency landing in Azerbaijan

January 7, 2014, 10:11 pm

Singapore Airlines Ltd said on Monday (Jan 6) that an Airbus A380 flying from London to Singapore made an emergency landing in Azerbaijan due to cabin depressurisation, but there were no injuries to the 467 passengers and 27-member crew on board.

"Oxygen masks were deployed and the aircraft landed uneventfully at Baku airport at 01:03 (local time)," Singapore Airlines said in a statement. "We are seeking clearance from local authorities to transfer affected customers to a hotel until a replacement aircraft arrives from Singapore," the airline said.

Singapore Airlines is one of the biggest operators of the double-decker superjumbo, with 19 A380s in its fleet and has orders for five more aircraft.





Recipe for trouble-free working life

January 7, 2014, 6:37 pm

As Sri Lankans experience a tremendous change in lifestyle which has speeded up the onset of Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs) such as diabetes, heart attacks and respiratory diseases, doctors believe that making simple yet effective changes will go a long way in saving lives.

Cardiovascular health is a key area that must be addressed well before it sets in, says Dr. Mrs. Susi Perera, Immediate Past President of the Association of Community Physicians in Sri Lanka. Dr Mrs Perera has developed the concept of Super Eight, a set of key guidelines that advise developing healthy and sound habits, aimed at developing a healthier lifestyle.

By adapting the elements of Super Eight, Dr Mrs Perera and her colleagues believe that Sri Lankans can easily reduce the risk of developing NCDs, particularly heart disease, identified as the leading cause of death in the country.

Engaging in at least 30 minutes of exercise such as walking can lower blood pressure and improve cholesterol levels. Exercise also helps reduce triglyceride levels and contributes to a considerable increase in HDL or good cholesterol in the blood. Exercise is considered beneficial for the management of diabetes by bringing down blood sugar levels. Research confirms that engaging in regular exercise such as strength training can prevent osteoporosis, increasing bone density and providing protection against bone mass decline. Exercise strengthens the immune system and helps in improving digestion and circulation – it is also said to prevent cancer. Keeping active throughout the day contributes tremendously to building a health lifestyle that in turn, will ensure a healthy heart.

Dr Susie Perera's Super Eight concept also recommends consuming a diet that includes at least five servings of fruits and vegetables. A diet rich in fruits and vegetables is said to lower the risk of heart attacks and stroke, while also controlling high blood pressure levels. Although the typical Sri Lankan diet of the past included plenty of fruits and vegetables, the current trend of consuming fast food and processed food has resulted in deteriorating health conditions, says Dr Susie Perera who adds that developing a healthy diet can start early in life to ensure a healthy life.

Scientists believe that eating plenty of fruits and vegetables may also provide protection against cancer. Leafy greens, coloured vegetables such as carrots and tomatoes along with many other non-starchy vegetables are said to provide unique protection against cancer. Brightly coloured fruits such as oranges and pomegranates are also said to provide many benefits when included in the daily diet. Research confirms that vegetables and fruits provide one of the most needed sources for the digestive system in addition to the nutritional content – fibre. As fibre passes through the digestive system, it captures water like a sponge and expands, enabling regular and healthy bowel movement while preventing constipation and other bowel related conditions.

Eating plenty of fruits and vegetables also keeps eyesight healthy. Carrots provide Vitamin A that aids night vision. Eating plenty of fruits and vegetables help prevent two common aging-related eye disease, cataract and macular degeneration.

The environment is full of free radicals that are generated by sunlight, cigarette smoke, air pollution, infection, and metabolism, causing our bodies much harm. Dark green leafy vegetable such as spinach and other brightly coloured vegetables and fruits are able to counter free radicals, enabling us to lead healthy lives. What we eat is extremely important , says Dr Susie Perera who stresses on the importance of developing healthy eating habits and sticking to them.

" With a few behavior modifications, we can successfully adapt Super Eight as a concept that encourages and empowers healthy living" says Dr. Mrs Susie Perera.





Commercial Bank's e-Exchange presents exercise books to 1000 children

Some 1000 children received exercise books for their new school term from Commercial Bank in a promotion conducted by the Bank recently for its 'e-Exchange' money transfer recipients.

The presentation took place last week at the auditorium of Commercial Bank and children living in distant areas were given the opportunity to collect their books from the Commercial Bank branches nearest to them.

Each package of books consisted of 20 exercise books of multiple sizes.

The promotion was conducted in the months of November and December 2013 for remitters of funds via Commercial Bank e-Exchange service. Customers had to SMS the names of the children together with the reference numbers of their remittances. The Bank said the response it had received was overwhelming.





UNP LC has not decided to replace Sajith, Thalatha as members

January 7, 2014, 10:16 pm

by Zacki Jabbar

The UNP Leadership Council(LC) said yesterday that it had not requested the Working Committee to remove Sajith Premadasa and Thalatha Athukorale, who have failed to accept their appointments to the LC.

Kabir Hashim MP, spokesperson for the LC told "The Island" that they had not discussed replacing Sajith and Thalatha, who had not assumed duties even over two months after the Council was constituted.

"Since no one has raised the matter, there obviously cannot be any recommendation by. We are hoping that both Sajith and Thalatha would join us and work towards making the UNP victorious once again. Their appointments remain valid. But we are not going for them", he stressed adding that time was of the essence with the Western and Southern Provincial Council Elections expected to be held in March.

Hashim said that they had already commenced a country wide campaign at grass roots level aimed at facing Presidential and Parliamentary Polls, which were also likely to be held this year.

With the LC being established as a legal body at last month's Convention, the day to day running of the party was its responsibility. None of its members had complained about encountering any difficulties in performing their duties, he noted.

The LC comprises nine members headed by Karu Jayasuriya. Those who have accepted their appointments are Ravi Karunanayake, Tissa Attanayake, Kabir Hashim, Lakshman Kiriella, Mangala Samaraweera and Ruwan Wijewardene.





A premium, limited edition range set to tantalize the taste buds of Sri Lankan youth

Sri Lanka's leading instant noodle brand, Maggi Devilled, has revolutionized the local instant noodle category with the launch of the first ever triple tastemaker noodle in the market - Maggi Devilled X-tra! A premium, limited edition range, Maggi Devilled X-tra comprises of three taste enhancers that capture the essence of authentic Sri Lankan delicacies popular amongst Sri Lankan youth.

Nestlé's latest innovation uses its world renowned R&D expertise to develop a product that is the most indigenous yet from its Maggi Devilled range. Nestlé has the largest R&D network of any food company in the world and the Nestlé Research Center is widely recognized across the globe as one of the world's leading research institutions in food, nutrition and life sciences.

Maggi Devilled X-tra differs from the rest of the Maggi Devilled range as its spiciest noodles product and offers an X-tra spicy sauce in addition to the standard seasoning and spicy oil sachets. This is the first time an instant noodles product has offered three taste sachets in one go, guaranteeing an explosion of flavour with each bite.

With the launch of the Maggi Devilled noodles range, Maggi has sought to delight local youth by catering to the local palette and offering spicy and appetizing noodles to satisfy their quest for exciting variations in their meals. Packaged in a vibrant red, yellow and black pack, Maggi Devilled X-tra Spicy Blast offers Nestlé's world class quality combined with the best of Sri Lanka's favourite cuisine to offer a spicy taste experience to the youth during their celebrations.





IPO to raise Rs 96 million

January 7, 2014, 6:29 pm

Millennium Housing Developers Ltd. announced an Initial Public Offering of 16 million gilt edged shares in its capital structure to raise approximately Rs.96 million to finance an ambitious housing development thrust that will be implemented on a staggered basis through 2013 and 2014.

'If the IPO is oversubscribed authorization to absorb an investment of up to Rs.192 Million has been obtained, sources said.

This project envisages the construction of homes specifically tailored to meet the rapid demand expansion for top grade housing in environment friendly ambiences and yet within affordable reach of those earning from between as low an income as Rs.25,000 a month to those stretching on to an income of Rs.500,000 a month.





Priceless gift lost for good on X'mas day

January 7, 2014, 10:20 pm

By Wimal Keerthi, Negombo Corr.

A 5-year-old child adopted by a childless couple after obtaining custody through courts on the recommendation of the probation officer, died in a freak accident on Christmas day when he was strangled by the rope of a swing he was playing with.

This was revealed at the inquest held into the death of G. Jayamith Pium of Kaluwarippuwa, West Katana by Negombo Inquirer into Sudden Deaths, J. Wickremaratne,

Incident had taken place while the foster father was away. As the child was watching the TV, foster mother too had gone to back of the house for some domestic matter. On her return she found the child trapped by the rope lying in an unconscious state. He was rushed to hospital and died after admission.

Dr. A. Dayapala held the post-mortem and the verdict was passed accordingly.





State plans to boost consumer welfare

*National policy framework and action plan in making

January 7, 2014, 6:20 pm

By Maheesha Mudugamuwa

For the first time in its history, Sri Lanka was preparing to enact a national policy framework and action plan, by the end of this year, on consumer welfare in a bid to boost consumer confidence, Consumer Welfare Senior Minister S.B. Nawinna said yesterday.

He told The Island that though the situation for Sri Lankan consumers altered significantly with the liberalization of the country's economy during the presidency of J.R Jayawardane, there was no comprehensive regime for consumer protection in any government or private institutions or even in big businesses in the country so far.

The consumer was regularly cheated in respect of the quality, quantity and price of the goods or services, Nawinna added.

"We took the task of preparing the national policy and action plan on consumer protection in 2012 and now it has reached its final stage," the minister said.

"Once the law is passed, there will be effective legal enforcement," he added.

Minister Nawinna explained, under the consumer-first perspective, the government's ministries had been grouped into eight committees, such as, food, health, education and human resources, transport, housing, education, financial and infrastructure facilities. Prof. K.D.S. Ranaweera, Prof. Amal Kumara, Prof Dr. Nimal Navaratne, Dr. Carlo Fonseka and four others were appointed to head each of these committees.

"Once they have submitted their reports, it would be sent to the Legal Draftsman and then to the Attorney General's Department for approval before being presented to Parliament," he said.

According to the Senior Minister, the main aim of the initiative is to strengthen the consumers by educating them about their rights and introducing new legislation through all relevant ministries to protect these rights.

Every ministry related to consumer affairs, directly or indirectly, would have to play a prominent role to implement this policy, Nawinna added.





No letup in abuse of domestic workers, says Lankan diplomat

January 7, 2014, 10:14 pm

Around three complaints are filed daily by Sri Lankan domestic workers against their Saudi sponsors, according to a statement issued by the Sri Lankan Consulate.

Arab News quoted M.B.M. Zarook, consul for labor affairs,as having said the complaints were mostly regarding lack of salary payments, the renewal of the domestic workers' contracts without their consent and some instances of beatings and physical abuse.

"Fifty Sri Lankan domestic workers made escape attempts in 2013," said Zarook. "Cases involving sexual harassment among women workers transpire very rarely and do not exceed one case in every 1,000 workers."

At present, around 350,000 workers and drivers reside in the Kingdom, with domestic workers representing 80 percent of them.

Zarook said the Sri Lankan government is providing training courses for domestic workers for three weeks in Sri Lanka prior to their traveling to Saudi Arabia.

"Workers receive language training, etiquette of hospitality training, lessons on how to run washing machines and home appliances, cooking lessons, and training on how to care for the elderly and children," he said.

Early this month, the Kingdom decided to sign agreements with six labor-exporting countries to recruit domestic helpers as part of a comprehensive plan to streamline the domestic service sector.

Ahmed F. Al-Fahaid, deputy labor minister for international affairs, confirmed that Sri Lanka would ink a labor treaty in Riyadh on Jan. 14.

Mangala Randeniya, deputy general manager and media spokesman of the Sri Lankan Bureau of Foreign Employment, said the agreement aims to reduce the cases of abuse and guarantee fair and humane treatment of domestic workers.

He said the contract would cover 12 groups of workers, including house drivers, cleaners, housemaids, janitors, tutors and waiters working for individuals or families.

However, the contract would only permit employment of domestic workers through licensed recruitment agencies, which act in accordance with the Kingdom's regulations. It also extends to a protection mechanism, including insurance, especially for domestic workers.

Commenting on the visa rates, Zarook said it was an open market, and that the consulate had nothing to do with that. He confirmed that the rates depend on the brokers as well as the intermediary groups who travel between Sri Lanka and the Kingdom to raise the fare of visas and misuse the demand of families and scarcity of labor.

"The consulate plays a vital role by informing the recruitment offices and the workers in Sri Lanka about the importance of following work regulations in the Kingdom," said Zarook





ISO award for National Hospital ENT Unit

The International Standards Organisation yesterday awarded the ENT unit of the Colombo National Hospital the 9001:2008 certification owing to the exceptional quality of service provided by it.

The spokesman for the Health Ministry, Dharma Wanninayake said that the ENT Association of Sri Lanka provided preventive services, diagnosis, treatment and awareness programmes of diseases of the neck and head. They also conducted research and promotional services for patients.

Meanwhile the official website of the "09 SAARC ENT Congress" was launched yesterday during a ceremony held to mark the awarding of ISO certification. The congress is scheduled to commence tomorrow (09) at the BMICH.





Providing Clean Drinking water to Kidney Disease Endemic Villages:

Plea for caution and a rational approach

January 7, 2014, 7:17 pm

"It seems to be characteristic of human nature that people learn more effectively from mistakes-their own as well as others-than from success. Revealing our mistakes can be painful, but we must do it so others can avoid repeating them"

Roland Bunch (World Neighbours)

By Ranjit Mulleriyawa

Most people living in CKDu (Chronic Kidney Disease of Uncertain Origin) endemic villages in the dry zone, obtain their drinking water from open dug wells, where the water tends to contain high concentrations of Fluoride (2-4 ppm) and dissolved Calcium and Magnesium salts giving rise to the condition known as "hard water". There is widespread consensus among scientists that improving the quality of drinking water in these areas may prevent, or retard the progress of this kidney disease. The World Health Organization (WHO) which carried out an in depth investigation of this disease, has also recommended that high priority be given to provision of better quality drinking water to communities living in CKDu endemic areas.

Based on these recommendations, many well intentioned people and organizations seem to be rushing in to providing water filters (RO Plants), Electro Chemical Coagulation units, and rainwater harvesting and storage facilities in these areas. However, little or no attention is being paid to the fact that many such facilities have already been established in these areas by various agencies (Water Supply and Drainage Board, bilateral assistance programs, and Nongovernmental organizations). Despite these laudable efforts, community response with respect to utilization of these facilities is believed to be poor. It is thus apparent that the reasons for lack of community interest in these interventions be ascertained before prescribing the same facilities for adoption in other areas. Many well intentioned projects designed to help the rural poor have ended in failure due to inordinate haste.

A credible investigation of this nature will provide a sound, rational basis for installing appropriate water purification facilities.

This evaluation needs to focus on the following issues:

(i) Determine the technical effectiveness of installed water purification facilities at village level.

(ii) Determine ability of installed facilities to meet community and household water requirements.

(iii) Determine community and householders' response/attitudes to drinking rainwater and filtered water.

(iv) Identify weaknesses/bottlenecks in operating the facilities at community level.

Recommend the most viable, cost effective, and sustainable water purification method acceptable to a wide spectrum of communities in CKDu endemic areas.

Disposing Toxic Effluents

Purifying ground water containing toxic elements through RO Filters, must consider and take into account subsequent disposal of the toxic residues. Throwing them back into the soil or drainage ditches will further aggravate existing environmental contamination.

Priority Action

Well organized and effective community mobilization programmes need to be carried out in CKDU endemic villages before disbursing any benefits (like water purification facilities) to the community. Trained community mobilizers deployed by suitable NGOs/CBOs will use participatory rural appraisal tools such as social mapping, seasonal charts, transect walks, key informant interviews and focus group discussions in accomplishing this task.

Main purpose of this exercise is to encourage villagers to reflect on, discuss and analyze their situation and activities, life style, food habits, drinking water sources (water quality) , and relate these to the kidney disease prevailing in their area.

The usual "awareness raising" resorted to by many development agencies involves a couple of large village meetings where external resource persons preach the importance of adopting their recommended interventions. Such hasty approaches rarely achieve the desired objective.

"Everything has been said already, but since no one listens, one must always start again."

(Andre' Gide)

*The author is a member of the CKDu Research Group, Kandy. He holds a Masters' degree in Agriculture from the University of the Philippines, and has over 30years experience in tropical agriculture and rural development in South and South-East Asia. He can be contacted at the following e-mail address: rangoviya2013@gmail.com





