Sri Lanka's coach Trevor Bayliss will encourage his players to head into the Australian dressing room during the three-nation one-day series to avoid a repeat of the race row that marred the Sydney Test.

The Sri Lankans began their preparation for the series at the SCG nets yesterday and will tune up with a match against Bankstown.

Bayliss believed the "Bollyline" affair was an isolated incident but was keen for his team to socialise after matches to diffuse any tensions.

"Certainly not, quite the opposite actually," Bayliss said when asked if there was similar tension with Australia during their Test series.

"The two teams got on well and from my point of view I made an effort for our blokes to go into the change rooms after Test matches to get to know some of the Australian guys.

"They certainly did that and it was very good in the field and also afterwards in the dressing room. The other two teams can have all the attention and hopefully that will allow us to play good cricket."

Bayliss didn't expect any ill feelings from the India-Australia Tests to spill into the shorter form of the game.

"We're not too concerned about what's gone on there," he said.

"It looks like those two teams have gotten over it. It's one of those things that happen in cricket every now and then and is pretty quickly forgotten."

The tourists have brought just one specialist spinner, Muttiah Muralitharan, in a squad with six quicks.

Bayliss said the Aussies will be even harder to beat following their shock loss in Perth.

"Knowing Australia, when they're not quite playing as well as they [can], it means they come into the next game or two wanting to prove something.

"If anything, it's going to be tougher."

Bayliss said his own side had something to prove after their World Cup loss to the Australians and a disappointing performance in the recent Test series.

"I suppose they have something to prove after the Test series here. We didn't play as well as hoped, especially with the bat."





