Kevin Pietersen and Andrew Flintoff leave for the West Indies on Wednesday knowing that any Indian Premier League riches may have to wait another two years, after the England and Wales Cricket Board refused to broaden their two-week window of availability of Test players.

The new season of IPL begins on April 10 and runs until May 24, but in a document sent to the 18 first-class counties, Hugh Morris, the managing director of the England and Wales Cricket Board, makes plain that England's Test stars will only be available for 14 days if they are to earn the No Objection Certificate from the board that is an IPL requirement.

Under Morris's directives, Pietersen and Flintoff, along with any other England Test player who might get tapped up, must report back by noon on April 25. Morris, not unreasonably, wants them to play in the round of championship matches preceding the opening Test against the West Indies on May 6.

There is a problem though even before you consider the wisdom of squashing this much cricket in. IPL commissioner Lalit Modi insists that players who join this season must commit to a two-year deal and play for at least a month each year. Under those conditions there seems no way that Pietersen and Flintoff, England's two most desirable players to the franchise holders in terms of box-office appeal, can play in the IPL. Even if the players refuse to sign their central contracts, which they have yet to do, they still need an NOC, which the ECB have the power to withhold.

There is another problem. England's one-day players unlikely to be involved in the early Tests, such as Samit Patel, will be allowed to play IPL until May 10 (the one-dayers against the West Indies start later). That would see them past Modi's minimum stipulation of four weeks and Nottinghamshire have already given Patel an NOC, though he still needs one from the ECB as well. Such players could quickly become a source of envy, risking dressing-room harmony.

More complications arise over players on the fringes of playing Test cricket for England, such as Ravi Bopara. It is not inconceivable that Bopara could be in the Test team come May, but the IPL auction, and therefore the contracts with the franchises, are finalised next month. How can the ECB hand him an NOC, not knowing if he will be involved in the Tests?

Similarly, with next year's IPL dates yet to be finalised, how can NOCs that must hold good for two years, be given now? They cannot, which is why the ECB have also decided that any player seeking IPL involvement must return at least 10 full days prior to the first day of any England match for which he has been selected.

Which means that while early-season Tests and one-day internationals in this country persist, and the IPL window remains where it is in the calendar, the participation of England's best players in the IPL looks limited, at best, to the odd cameo.





