CIMA Sri Lanka Division and Janashakthi Insurance Co. Ltd announced yesterday that the fifth annual CIMA-Janashakthi Pinnacle Awards ceremony will be held on Wednesday 02 April 2008 at the Cinnamon Grand Hotel, Colombo. Recognised as one of the leading events in the country's business event calendar, the CIMA-Janashakthi Pinnacle Awards celebrate business excellence, leadership, management and teamwork at the highest standards and recognise and reward excellence in professionalism among the cream of the Sri Lanka's business community.

Speaking on the awards programme, President, CIMA Sri Lanka Division, Aruna Fernando said, "Winning a Pinnacle Award is all about talent, skill and experience. It also goes a step further and focusses on ambition, determination and achievement which are the true hallmarks of real leaders. The CIMA - Janashakthi Pinnacle Awards were created five years ago to recognise and felicitate just that kind of accomplishment. I'd like to encourage all CIMA members and students to take part in these prestigious awards, which have after all been conceived to celebrate their achievements and could not have existed without their successes.

Managing Director of Janashakthi Insurance Co. Ltd, Prakash Schaffter said, "We are very happy to continue our relationship with CIMA Sri Lanka for the much coveted Pinnacle Awards which is one of the top events in Sri Lanka's annual business calendar. These awards recognise record breaking performance in the business sector and are now the benchmark of corporate excellence. Professionalism and excellence are two of the core values deeply rooted in the spirit and culture at Janashakthi Insurance, which has a long track history of breaking records in the insurance sector. Supporting the Pinnacle Awards for the fifth consecutive year further underscores our unfailing commitment to supporting this attribute in local businesses. It also demonstrates our drive to encouraging professionalism and entrepreneurship in business and in all other spheres of life".

The programme this year features well established awards for 'Business Leader of the Year', 'Chief Financial Officer of the Year' with sub-categories for large, medium and small scale organisations, as well as 'Business Manager of the Year' and the 'Young CIMA Star of the Year' award. The programme will also feature a 'Management Team of the Year' award.

The Business Leader, Chief Financial Officer and Management Team of the Year awards are open to public participation, while the Young CIMA Star and Business Manager awards are open to CIMA members only. In the Business Leader and the CFO categories, candidates can either be nominated by their colleagues or enter the awards themselves. Entry kits are now available from CIMA Sri Lanka Division, 356 Elvitigala Mawatha, Colombo 5.





