"The company announced that that we will give $30 million to The Global Fund to fight AIDS, tuberculosis (TB) and malaria. 'This contribution demonstrates our strong commitment to the role public-private partnerships can play in improving health around the world and distinguishes us as the first member of The Global Fund's new Corporate Champions program.'

"The Global Fund selected us as their inaugural Corporate Champion in large measure because of our proven commitment to communities where we operate. Like The Global Fund, Chevron emphasizes the partnership model, which is fundamental to our community engagement approach. The Global Fund also values the community engagement programs we already have in place to tackle AIDS and malaria, especially our global HIV/AIDS policy, which was recognized by the Global Business Coalition with a Business Excellence in the Workplace Award."

In a news release announcing this contribution, Chairman Dave O'Reilly highlighted values the organisation shares with The Global Fund and emphasized the business case for this contribution, "HIV/AIDS, TB and malaria are critical health threats in many of the communities where we operate around the world. The key to the success of The Global Fund has been the strength of its partnership and collaboration model, which is an approach that Chevron shares. For a company such as ours, it makes clear business sense to join with The Global Fund and apply our joint resources in the fight against these diseases."

This $30 million contribution will be invested over a three-year period and directed to Global Fund-supported programs in Angola, Indonesia, Nigeria, Philippines, South Africa and Thailand – countries where Chevron has significant operations, where The Global Fund has an established track record, and where this investment can make the most far-reaching community impacts. "As a Global Fund Corporate Champion, we will leverage our people and assets to improve the scope and effectiveness of our existing programs and community projects that combat AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria. We will also lend management skills and business infrastructure to develop and implement national strategies in the fight against these diseases."

"Global companies with large, long-term investments in developing countries understand that fighting disease is a necessary part of their strategic investments," said Rajat Gupta, Chairman of the Board of Directors for The Global Fund. "The Global Fund provides the opportunity for these companies to make effective, results driven investments in national health programs. We are extremely pleased with the commitment from Chevron."

The Global Fund has been sponsoring partnership programs around the world to fight AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria since 2002. Worldwide they provide over 20 percent of all the international financing to fight AIDS and two-thirds of the financing to fight tuberculosis and malaria. During 2007, The Global Fund gave $537 million to fight HIV/AIDS; $471 million to combat malaria; and $111 million to defeat tuberculosis.

\ "The business community has a lot to offer in helping defeat AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria," commented former U.S. Ambassador Richard Holbrooke, Chairman and CEO of The Global Fund Business Coalition. "The Global Fund Corporate Champions program provides a significant new way for major multinational corporations to serve their communities without having to become experts in global health. Chevron's leadership and commitment to this new avenue is a major step not only for the Corporate Champions program, but also for business engagement in the fight against the three diseases."





