In America research is being carried out to replace coal power with solar power. Great achievements have been made in generating electricity from solar power to be used even in the night.

The basic system, as reported, is to produce steaming hot water with solar heaters for 16 hours in thermally insulated underground reservoirs. Thus, electricity could be produced with the help of steam turbines as done with coal.

Additionally, solar cells that convert light to electricity are also being improved.

It is better to use solar technology along with the proposed coal power generation projects as the emission of green house gasses can be compensated by a significant development in the solar technology.

In fact, solar technology could be sufficiently developed to reduce the consumption of coal but it is being resisted by the developed nations as their economy heavily depends on coal. Nevertheless, the alternative methods of generating electricity in cleaner environment are in progress as the pressure to safeguard the environment is becoming more important.

If the world continues to depend on coal power, it will be the most costly form of power in time to come.

In Sri Lanka, the people are even thinking of cooking with electricity when coal power is made available. This is too optimistic as it is technically not feasible and even to meet the demand of half the population. It requires about 6000 MW of power for a couple of hours at noon and in the evening. Furthermore, this short duration in two or three shifts makes it technically and economically difficult to meet. Nevertheless, this too could be met to some extent through solar energy by utilising our hydro reservoirs to store solar power, by pumping the discharged water up for storing energy as a further development in solar technology. We are, in fact, fortunate to have several hydro schemes for this development.

In Australia, in order to promote solar energy, the government gives 50% of the cost as a rebate if anyone installs solar cell panels on their roofs. Since our people are not so rich I feel that the government should install solar panels on their roofs to feed the national grid by paying them a rent for the use of their roofs. These can be installed in stages according to the availability of funds to increase the generating capacity to meet the increasing demand for power by adding more panels to generate about 50 MW every year. This is also a tremendous advantage in comparison to coal power, which needs at least 6 years to come into operation. Although there is a disadvantage with regard to its restricted availability, it can meet the daytime loads until developed further with storage facility. For this type of development, funds can be obtained from international finance organisations such as ADB at low interest.

Although the price of solar cells is still too high–about $ 6.00 per watt– it is gradually coming down to make it economically and environmentally more feasible. At $ 6.00 a watt in an area where there is an average sunshine of about 6 hours a day, the cost of a unit of electricity works out to about $(US) 0.15 based on its guaranteed life span of 20 years.

Solar cells are now being mostly manufactured in Asian countries because of their labour intensive process of manufacture. When I was working for the US Navy in the eighties, I had the opportunity of setting up a factory to manufacture solar cells in Sri Lanka with the help of an American company which was prepared to bear 50% of the estimated cost of 100 million rupees. Unfortunately, the proposal that I prepared in consultation with the prospective manufactures incurring the cost myself did not materialise. Even today, it is not too late to go into the production of solar cells in Sri Lanka reducing the cost of cells further, to generate electricity even to cook by using the hydro reservoirs to store the excess energy.

Although the capital cost of a factory has risen by ten times, the efficiency of the cells has been increased from then 6% to present 12.5% and that justifies the present cost. Cell efficiency means all the sunlight that falls on a square metre is equivalent to 1,000 watts of electricity and the maximum amount that can be converted to electricity is 125 watts. There are plans to increase this to 200 watts to bring down the cost to $ 4.00 per watt to reduce the cost of a unit of electricity to $ 0.10 in the near future.

Sri Lanka having sunshine for an average of 6 hours a day is an ideal condition to supply power even to cook during short durations. Coal power stations can never meet this requirement economically as the generators have to be operated near full load to obtain the maximum efficiency.

The Eastern region of Sri Lanka, where the sunshine can even exceed the average of 6 hours a day, will be ideally suitable not only for installing solar panels but also to set up a factory to manufacture cells with a foreign collaborator as mentioned above.

Although, there are no hydro storage facilities there, daytime activities such as commercial, industrial, agricultural, domestic etc can be developed utilising this technology to the maximum.





