An unseen Sri Lankan friend of mine that I have met on an internet has mentioned in his blog a rare coincidence (or is it universal karmic forces) of two significant events taking place yesterday, 25th January 2009. I was stunned for a moment when I read it as the realisation sank in my mind that those two events that my friend had mentioned had indeed taken place on the very same day, just 11 years apart from each other. One was the greatest sacrilege perpetrated by the LTTE terrorists on 25th January 1998 by bombing and causing massive destruction to the pinnacle of the Sri Lankan Buddhist religious belief, the Sri Dalada Maligawa or the temple of the tooth relic of Lord Gauthama Buddha. The second event was none other than the very same LTTE terrorists, who out of sheer brutality destroyed the venerated place, getting decimated by the Sri Lankan defence forces and losing their last stronghold in Mulaitivu by yesterday, coincidentally, on 25th January 2009, eleven years after their infamous sacrilege of the highest order.

Was it just coincidental, or was it the work of the universal karmic forces coming after the doer?

Nobody will ever be able to say for certain if it was the former or the latter, except for a Lord Buddha, as the intricate workings of the karmic forces of the universe can exclusively be understood and explained only by the Enlightened one. We, the laymen, can only speculate and could have our pick from the two possibilities that it was either the karma taking effect or just a coincidence.

However, one thing stands prominent here. It is the great religious belief that every Sri Lankan Buddhist carries with him/her. It is that the Buddhists in Sri Lanka whole-heartedly believe that the venerated tooth relic of our Lord Buddha protects Sri Lanka and its inhabitants from evil and harm. It is also believed that the Lord Gauthama Buddha, having seen with His divine eye, that the only place His teachings will be followed for a 5000 years after his death is this tiny land in the Indian ocean, had made a divine wish and blessed this island nation. Thus, during the centuries gone by, a million, billion, trillion of people, who believed and still believe in this paranormal effect of the blessing by the Enlightened one have worshiped and are worshipping the tooth relic and regard it as being the Protector of our religion and the nation and this bountiful land.

And when the LTTE terrorists barbarically blew up our holy place of worship, the grief-stricken devotees and people were rendered speechless. Irrespective of the walk of life that we belonged to in our own communities, we shared the same pain and we cried with the same agony that fateful day and each day that we visited the Maligawa afterwards. Everybody had the same question pricking their minds over and over, whenever the Dalada Maligawa bombing was reminded of. The question that echoed in our minds was, "Why does it not seem like the karma is ever going to punish these wrongdoers, who in cold blood attacked our most venerated place of religious significance ?"...

Well, here we have seen yesterday how those evil doers got back their justifiable share of decimation, which they intended to cause to the Dalada Maligawa exactly eleven years ago. Be it the great karma working its way to find the perpetrator or just coincidence, one thing is certain. The LTTE terrorists got what they totally deserved.





