"Power does not corrupt men. Fools, however if they get into power, corrupt power". As quoted by George Bernard Shaw

Once upon a time in our country the 'man in the khaki uniform' was well respected and the Criminals of the day were scared stiff whenever they saw a khaki uniform. But today, the situation is quite different - the Criminals are calling the shots. The Police Department of today is in a very sorry state due to unsolved criminal cases which are mostly politically related. The former Police chiefs are also partly responsible for this sorry state.

Politics has become big business all over the world - it has become a family business. It is likened to the infamous Sicilian Clan of America where family business has been safeguarded with an iron fist. Their business comprises of Money-laundering, Narcotics, Prostitution, Dope peddling, Contract killing and have strong relationship with the underworld. Politicians prefer to employ under-world criminals as their personal bodyguards. This tendency has glorified the criminals and have made them glamourous and in par with the police personal as well. They handle the most modern weapons and are ever ready for a fight. This was evident sometime ago when sons politicians, with their bodyguards, were involved in fisticuffs at tourist hotels. Politicians know that the policeman being human with frailties could be manipulated. The policeman who wishes to safeguard his interest would, therefore, do anything the crooked politician wants him to do. If he does not comply, he is doomed and the following could be meted out to him for the rest of his service days.

1. His promotion could be withheld.

2. His allowances could be denied

3. He could be transferred to a remote area and his family life could be in shambles.

4. He could be victimised all the time.

5. He could also be framed for something that he had not done.

6. The corrupt politician will also use him as a doormat to clean his filthy feet on.

7. He should also hold on to his uniform tightly because politicians are all out to remove it from him if he should step on their 'corns'.

8. His pension could be delayed for a couple of months.

The above stated reasons are the contributory factors for crimes that goes unresolved. The tribulations that the Police Department is going through are because it lacks a Legal Division within the Department so that a policeman could seek legal advice to arrest corrupt politicians. Fools who come to power not only corrupt power but they also use Police Officers as Doormats to clean their dirty feet on.





