Once again HSBC promises to delight credit cardholders with the re-launch of its popular Rewards programme in January 2008. The Instant HSBC Rewards programme allows all HSBC credit cardholders the unmatched benefit of redeeming rewards points earned instantly, at selected rewards partner outlets from 1 March 2008 onwards.

Customers can earn up to 1 point for every Rs. 100 spent, while HSBC Premier customers will earn 3 points for every Rs. 100 spent. The unique instant rewards programme offers customers the flexibility to check rewards points earned, and make instant redemptions at over 200 HSBC rewards partner outlets. It also allows customers to select from a choice of over 100,000 products and services. A minimum requirement of 500 points will need to be maintained by all credit cardholders in order to redeem instants rewards.

Nilantha Bastian, Head of Cards & Consumer Assets, said' "We have devised the instant Rewards programme based on consumer spending trends and insights. Through this we have identified the places customers most often shop, using HSBC credit cards and hence for more convenience and choice we have added new rewards partner outlets this year. In the last rewards programme our customers enjoyed over 65 million rupees worth of rewards. This year we hope that customers will use their credit card, earn more rewards points, and encash them for greater benefits".

Ms Dishani Yatawara, Marketing Manager, Credit Cards said, "We have introduced a number of new merchants to offer more choices and privileges to our customers, rewarding their loyalty to HSBC. The newest merchants to partner us include all Cargills supermarkets, Aitken Spence Hotels, Sri Lankan Holidays, George Steuart Travels, KFC, Softlogic and Mango Tree."

She also added that, "HSBC Premier credit cardholders will have the advantage of redeeming their points towards one of the five major charities in Sri Lanka namely, SOS Children's Village, Association for Lighting a Candle (AFLAC), Cancer Society, Helpage Sri Lanka and St. Joseph's Deaf school."

In addition, registered customers wilth a minimum of 2000 mileage rewards points and 1000 normal rewards points can redeem their air miles on Kris Flyer, Asia Miles or Q (Qatar) Miles.





