Trinidad & Tobago skipper, Daren Ganga, the right-hand batsman, who turns 31 later this month, has not played for the regional squad in two years, but said last week he was looking to score heavily in the upcoming WICB regional first class season, to force his way into the selection frame, according to a report in the Trinidad & Tobago Express, Jan. 2, 2010 edition.

"I intend to push hard to get back into international cricket. In order to do this, I know that I have to impress the West Indies selection panel and in order to do this, I have to increase the quantity of runs I produce," Ganga was quoted as having said.

"I still think that I have the quality to perform at the top level and I would really like to make a contribution at that level. My form is currently good and I am looking forward to taking that into the regional series and getting some good scores," said the highly articulate and amiable man, with Indian roots, much like many West Indian cricketers, such as former skippers, the legendary Rohan Kanhai and Shivnarine Chanderpaul.

Late last year, Ganga and his T&T team won the hearts of thousands of fans for the manner they performed in the Twenty20 championship, where they were the runners-up.

Ganga is considered by many, as a shrewd tactician (in the Mike Brearley mould?).

West Indies will host South Africa in three Tests starting in May this year and Ganga will be eyeing this series to make a possible return.

The T&T skipper has played 48 Tests, but last saw Windies colours in 2008 in South Africa, where he struggled badly with a mere 117 runs from six innings. He was dropped on his return to the Caribbean and remained in the wilderness until late last year when he re-entered the selection frame as a possible candidate to lead the West Indies to Australia.

Overall, Ganga has scored 2,160 runs at an average of 25.71. He has managed just three centuries in 86 innings, though taking back-to-back hundreds off Australia in the 2003 home series.

Ganga said he was also hoping to lead T&T to the 2010 regional first class title.

"We have the regional first class cricket series that's upon us and my aim is to win this title for T&T," Ganga stressed.

"I am hoping for yet another successful year for T&T and that we win the first class title that has eluded us for a while."





