The LTTE yesterday suffered another heavy blow when it lost control of the Mullaitivu hospital which it had used to treat its wounded and sick cadres after the loss of the Kilinochchi hospital.

Troops of the 59 Division surrounded the hospital located about 4 km west of Mullaitivu between Mullaivalli and Tunniyattu. "By the time we reached, the terrorists had removed everything they could lay their hands on and fled into the jungles," a ground commander told The Island yesterday evening. He said some LTTE groups had put up heavy resistance before fleeing.

The troops had to breach an earth bund the LTTE had put up near the hospital to impede the army's advance.

Although the hospital did not suffer any damage in the battle, the LTTE had reduced it to an empty shell by removing all the equipment, beds, air-conditioners and even ceiling fans besides drugs and surgical equipment, sources said adding that it may have taken the LTTE days if not weeks to strip the hospital of its resources.

The LTTE had turned the hospital into a camp of sorts by building underground bunkers within its premises.

Military Spokesman Brig. Udaya Nanayakkara said with the troops making a foray into the last bastion of the LTTE, the fleeing Tigers had no alternative but to turn to the sea in search of an escape route. However, Navy Spokesman Captain D. K. P. Dassanayake recently said in a television interview that the Navy had taken all the precautions to thwart LTTE leaders from escaping via the sea. He said there were four security cordons in place and the Navy was ready for any eventuality.

Targets destroyed –– SLAF

Air Force jets last evening pounded a heavily fortified LTTE hideout in the Pudukuduirruppu jungles, which the beleaguered LTTE leader Velupillai Prabhakaran is believed to have frequented while being on the run.

SLAF Spokesman Wing Commander Janaka Nanayakkara said the targets had been destroyed in the attacks carried out following intelligence reports that the LTTE leader could be hiding in that location. The exact damage the LTTE had suffered and the identities of victims would be revealed shortly, he said.

He said the LTTE leaders had no way of leaving the country by air as they are confined to a small area closely monitored by the Air Force. "They will have to hide in the Pudukuduirruppu jungles," he said.

Prior to the Pudukuriruppu attacks, Air Force jets and helicopter gunships had bombed some LTTE formations south of Mullaitivu and north of Iranamadu in support of the 57 and 59 Divisions and Task Force III advancing towards Mullaitivu.





