Animal husbandry today is an advanced economic sector where advanced inputs and processes are added to enhance production. The production of high dairy yield by cows or eggs by chickens is highly dependent on nutrition to achieve the quantities and quality sought by consumers.

An agreement to set up a project to manufacture animal feed additives and supplements for the export market was signed with Provimi Vet Lanka on 13th December 2007. Promini Vet Lanka is a leader in the area of animal nutrition

Dhammika Perera, Chairman / Director General, signed the agreement on behalf of the BOI and formally presented the investor with the BOI Certificate of Registrations. He added, " The BOI is very interested in promoting investments in many important sectors of the national economy as this will result in a more diversified and resilient economy. This project will have impact in a positive manner on our agricultural sector in terms of production and quality".

Terragon Chemie Private Limited, India, sponsors the US$ 1 million investment. The project will generate employment for around 20 at Malabe. The sponsoring company Tetragon Chemie is popularly known as Vetcare. Vetcare is the only company in India to receive FAMI QS and ISO 22000:2005 certification. FAMI QS stands for Feed Additives and Premixtures Quality System and ISO 22000:2005 is known as a Food Safety System Certificate equivalent to HACCP certification.

Vetcare markets quality products are well established and are currently sold in more than 30 countries. The company is considered highly innovative and they have succeeded in generating new ideas, concepts and products in the field of Animal Agriculture for the Indian subcontinent, since 1983.

They produce a wide range of therapeutic and nutritional products for large and small animals catering to the domestic and overseas market.

Vetcare entered into the joint venture with Provimi, Netherlands in 1999. Provimi has been a European market leader with an annual turnover of Euro 1.6 billion with 100 plants in 30 countries.

The company operates a Research and Development Unit in Bangalore. Vetcare through their R&D Unit has identified the type of products sought by the market and has thus succeeded in capturing many domestic and as well as export markets.

Bharat Tandon, Managing Director of Vetcare said that they have a market presence in Sri Lanka for a period of over 10 years. With the agreement signed with the BOI they will focus on producing nutritional products in Sri Lanka. The company's focus as far as Sri Lanka is concerned will be nutrition for livestock. They are confident that their nutritional products will boost the productivity of farmers involved in animal husbandry. They also see opportunities for business in products aimed at dairy, poultry and shrimp farmers.

Out of the production, a total of 20 % of the products manufactured in Sri Lanka will be sold in the local market. Another 50 % of the products are to be expected to be re-exported to India and the remaining will be exported to other Asia Pacific countries.

Production in the local factory is expected to commence in March and the Managing Director said the plant will be fully automated.

Comparing his products with those offered by competitors, Tandon said: "Our solutions are more suitable to the Asian region than the European solution and we have experience in managing farms in tropical climate.

A major portion of the technology used for the implementation of the manufacturing plant is brought from Switzerland while the manufacturing technology and other supporting technology will be imported from India.

Tandon also stated that Sri Lanka has a strong agriculture sector and a vast potential with our coastline. He also said that he was delighted by the systematic, professional and efficient service provided by the BOI.





