Well done India ! It is time to make a statement and say that we DO NOT ENJOY WHAT PASSES FOR A GAME OF CRICKET IN AUSTRALIA.

First they INVITE you to their country. Then they use every unfair tactic you can think of, on and off the field to lower the morale of their visitors and proceed to annihilate them . We who have been unfortunate enough to live in societies affected by civil strife and war tend to look at this type of behaviour in disbelief and shock.

After all this is just a GAME isn't it ? There is no human life at stake is there ? If so what is the problem with letting the 22 athletes on the field PLAY to the best of their ability and why not watch and enjoy and applaud both sides when they do things that please us ?

This may seem rather simplistic coming from a citizen of the sub continent. The same sub continent that arguably was the reason for the formation of the august body of match referees ! There was a time when we doctored wickets, used undue influence on our match officials and did everything in our power to influence home games in our favour. We probably didn't have the inherent "rudeness" and aggressiveness to do what the Aussies do on the field and due to our colonial mentality we tended to treat the white man with respect. A respect that didn't allow us to use our press to demoralise them or our spectators to hurl abuse at them.

I am the first to say that this type of behaviour was not acceptable. Thankfully good sense and the match referees have prevailed and a tour of the sub continent only has the weather now as the main off field opponent.

It has now become the preserve of the Australians. Players, spectators and press to use tactics of this nature. Tactics that are totally uneccesary in view of the fact that they have a team that is far superior to any other in the current game.

Since the match officials ( I do not deign to speak of the ICC !) seem powerless against the Aussie bully, it is time a touring side said enough is enough and made a show of strength. The Indians have done it and I think it is HIGH TIME !

Actually pulling out of the tour may be too much but a reversal on tha ban on Harbajhan Singh and the appointment of umpires who are competent and able to stand up to Aussie intimidation is a MUST.





