Called 'Peera' or at times 'Chaththa' by his team mates, Chathura Peiris has more experience than any other player, although that is not the sole reason to bestow the captaincy of Sri Lanka Under-19 on him.

After being introduced to pace bowling by his school coach L. H. Sunil at the very tender age of 14, Peiris has impressed in that department for St. Peter's College, in all age groups.

By the time he was 17, he was looking at becoming the first paceman from the college to take 100 wickets in a season, since former Sri Lanka pace ace, Rumesh Ratnayake. But due to National duties from 2007, the year he made a mark as a future Sri Lanka Under-19 bowling spearhead and captain, saw him fall short of his target (over 80 wickets last season).

A genuine all rounder, Peiris has shown a knack to wield the long handle in the dying stages of a match to accelerate the run rate. A good fielder in the covers and mid-on, one of Peiris' super fielding acts were exhibited in the recently held Tri-Nation tournament involving Bangladesh and Pakistan, when he held on to a superb one handed catch to dismiss Shahzad Ahmed at Moratuwa.

Peiris is the only player in the team to have taken part in the last World Cup in Malaysia.

Name: Chathura Peiris

Nick names: 'Peera', 'Chaththa'

Date of Birth: 23rd September 1990

School: St. Peter's College, Bambalapitiya

Batting: Left-hand bat

Bowling: Left-arm fast-medium

Previous experience: Represented Sri Lanka Under-19 since 2007

Andri Berenger

An aggressive opening bat, Andri Berenger has been in the spotlight from the time he started playing for St. Peter's College junior teams. But despite impressive performances in the Under-17, First XI and Under-23 tournaments, his entry into the Sri Lanka Under-19 team took longer than expected. Berenger found his due place in the team's tour of Australia in October and has been a regular member since then. However, he is yet to strike it really rich with the bat. His best innings so far for Sri Lanka Under-19 is a patiently made 34 runs (against Pakistan in the Tri-Nation final played here), which was quite in contrast to the number of aggressive innings he has played for the Petes.

Name: Andri Berenger

Nick names:

Date of birth: 29th August 1991

School: St. Peter's College, Bambalapitiya

Batting: Right-hand bat

Fielding position: Wicket keeper

Lahiru Jayarathne

A right arm medium pacer, Lahiru Jayarathne hails from Matale. He started his cricket at Christ Church College, Matale and joined St. Peter's College for the on-going season. Hailing from an outstation school, Jayaratne's talent was first spotted by Aravinda de Silva at his Coca Cola pathway programme and he was soon making his way to the Sri Lanka Under-19 team when it toured Bangladesh early last year.

The number of St. Peter's College players shot up to four with the last minute inclusion of all rounder Akshu Fernando. Although he had sufficient credentials to find a place in the Under-19 World Cup team, he was sidelined initially, but fate was on his side. An injury to Yasodha Lanka during the SL Under-19 tour of South Africa early this month, paved the way for Fernando's inclusion at the eleventh hour. An aggressive middle order batsman and a clever spinner, Akshu emerged as a future Sri Lanka Under-19 prospect in the Inter School Under-15 tournaments where he was among the best all rounders.





