Despite LTTE attacks, the government would go ahead with planned military operations until the terrorist group was defeated, government military spokesman Minister Keheliya Rambukwella said.

Addressing the media yesterday, Rambukwella said that the end to the three-decade long war would come only after Prabhakaran is eliminated. "While fighting terrorism priority will be given to national security."

Rambukwella dismissed claims that the LTTE has stepped up violence and was killing innocent civilians and security forces personnel after the government abrogated the CFA.

"According to the agenda of certain people with vested interests it is yes. If what they say is true did the Tigers trigger the Nugegoda bomb explosion which killed a number of people, including a school girl, after the CFA was abrogated?

He said that beginning with the Thimpu talks the government had tried negotiate with the LTTE to arrive at a peaceful solution, but the Tigers had made use of the peace talks when they were weak to re-arm, re-group and strengthen themselves and returned to war violating the truce, he said.

When they had peace talks in Colombo with the Premadasa regime in the nineties they broke the truce and suddenly ordered 800 odd policemen, serving in the East, to surrender. These innocent men were taken to the jungles blindfolded and shot dead without any provocation, the Defence spokesman said.

Tigers have reneged on their promises with successive governments and taken the government's willingness to talk with them for weakness.

"The LTTE violated the CFA reached between its leader Prabhakaran and the then Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe even before the ink on the document had dried. The last time they came to the negotiating table in Geneva they walked out through the back door. Then an LTTE suicide bomber tied to kill army Commander Lt. Gen. Sarath Fonseka and they assassinated Foreign Minister Lakshman Kadigarmar," he said.

Rambukwella said the government had done a 'scientific' analysis of what happened since the Thimpu talks and found that the LTTE had continued its killing spree regardless of all agreements. Hence, the government decided that it was futile to continue with the worthless CFA.

He blamed the Norwegian truce monitors saying that they had been acting on the orders of Prabhakaran and they had been partial to the Tigers. When Prabhakaran ordered them to leave the country after they left the negotiating table in Geneva last year, 37 of them left the country, he said.





