ODEL, Sri Lanka's premier department store, introduced the country's first ever virtual department store recently, along with the relaunch of their www.odel.lk website. The updated site now offers customers with the convenience and ease of purchasing anything available at the ODEL department store – Alexandra place, from the comfort of their own home. This major move for the brand is another part of its many plans identifying and expanding into new retail markets.

Transactions on this site will occur through the use of a completely secure system, where customers will be able to purchase from the many items available online, making payments with their credit card. This service, provided and run by HSBC, is reputed to be a highly effective way of ensuring the security of online transactions.

This impressive new offering from ODEL is a major milestone for the retail giant, as it now breaks the restrictions imposed by physical boundaries, with the ability to cater to a wider market, moving from a local customer base to an international one as well. Products available will be broken down in to 6 different categories – Ladies, Mens, Children, Homeware, Gourmet Food and Souvenirs, and within these segments, consumers will find available, everything featured at the ODEL department store.

Speaking at the launch of the revamped website, ODEL Chief Executive Officer (CEO)

Ms. Otara Gunewardena said that it was imperative to overcome the limitations of a physical store to fully succeed as a big business today. She added, "This move is a highly exciting direction we are moving towards. The possibilities in cyberspace are infinite, and our shift to the online retail sector will serve to further increase the equity of our brand."

The move online is one in a series of expansions that are in store for the brand. Recently it added two more doors to its existing range of outlets with the opening of retail spaces in Kohuwela and Jaela. These form the newest entity in the existing chain of stores by this iconic fashion brand, which also has a presence in Alexandra Place, Majestic City, and the Bandaranaiyake International Airport. The brands largest expansion at Alexandra place adjoining the current department store which will be one of the best retail spaces in the region is set to start later this year.





