KANDY - President Mahinda Rajapaksa expressed his desire to revive the co-operate system, which, he said, politicians had brought to the preset pass over the years.

Presenting financial assistance to Multipurpose Cooperative Societies (MPCS) for establishing a network of Co-op City outlets, at a ceremony at the Kandy Janadhipathi Mandirya on Saturday (26) President Rajapaksa said it was only the co-operative system that had provided some relief to the people at times of trouble.

He said the cooperative sector facilitated the distribution of goods at times of scarcity and therefore had to be protected in the public interest. Those who were responsible for ruining the cooperative sector were the very ones who were protesting against the rising prices. They had no moral right to accuse the government, he said.

"Having ruined co-operatives, they are now visiting village fairs to gain some political mileage," the President said.

According to Budget 2008, he said, 306 MPCS would be provided with one million rupees each for the installation co-op city outlets. "This money belongs to the people of this country and it must be put to the best use," he told the representatives of the co-operative societies.

The President told them the co-operatives had to compete with other commercial establishments without trying to sell rotten goods. Unless the co-operatives determined themselves to face challenges in the modern world and render a people friendly service at reasonable prices, as had been done in the past, the whole purpose would be lost.

He said certain unscrupulous elements called their huge profit making ventures such as car-sales, land-sales, housing complexes cooperatives. Even three or four storeyed palatial buildings equipped with swimming pools in Colombo were called cooperative enterprises. Those should be probed, he said.

President Rajapaksa said the free education system introduced by the late Mr. C. W. W. Kanangara and the Mahapola scholarship scheme introduced by the late Mr. Lalith Athulathmudal must be safeguarded. The service the two leaders had rendered to the country must be remembered, he said.

The country needed the services of the educated and the intelligentsia. Students must make the best use of the assistance provided to them and complete their university education without wasting their time, president Rajapakse said.

He said it was unfortunate that some students preferred a protracted stay on campus for reasons best known to themselves.

"The Mahapola Scholarship Programme," said the President, "provided an opportunity for students to succeed in life."

There were at least 1.1 million in the public service and over 100,000 graduates had been recruited under the SLFP-led governments during the past few years. Some were direct appointments, while others were selected on the basis of competitive examinations.

Referring to the UNF government, the President said, time was when no recruitment was made to the public sector.

He said political issues could not be sorted out through military means. They had to be settled politically while terrorism had to be countered militarily to enable democracy to survive. "When terrorists try to destroy the country, we have to meet the threat head on," he said adding that a democratically elected government was duty bound to do so.

President Rajapksa pledged that democracy would be re-established in Kilinochchi before long.





