President Mahinda Rajapaksa yesterday, addressing the officers and men of the armed forces, vowed that the government would not turn back until it completed its mission of defeating the LTTE. "There are certain elements who are determined to see that we abandon the mission, but no one can hold us back and soon the nation will celebrate the victory," he said.

Rajapaksa paid a glowing tribute to the armed forces men who laid down their lives in defence of their country and those maimed fighting the three decade long war.

"We will not leave this war to the next generation and see that terrorism will be eradicated completely from this land soon," he said.

There are some who want to gain political milage out of this war and we will not leave room for that said the President.

He told the military men "You have a huge responsibility on your shoulders and you have exactly done what you were expected to do. People of this country are waiting for the day that the gallant military men bring an end to this war. That's the fervent wish of every single citizen of this country."

The victories gained in the East and the on going offensive against the terrorists in the Northern theatre speak volumes of what you are capable of doing and the people of this country have implicit faith that you can eliminate terrorism and liberate this country."

The LTTE has taken all the political leaders in the world for a ride and the world really learnt about terrorism from Sri Lanka the President continued. They killed the former Prime Minister of India Rajiv Gandhi. They have decimated the Tamil leadership. Many people thought that they were great but today the military has shown the world who they are, the President said.

Rajapaksa condemned the CFA saying that it was a document signed to please the terrorists and the government took the right decision in abrogating it.

Over 800 officers and men from the tri-forces were decorated with gallantry medals for the sacrifices made at the war front but the nations two highest gallantry medals Parama Weera Viushana and Weerodara Vibushana were not awarded this year.

The medals and scrolls were presented by the President and the Prime Minister.





