As a Presidential election prematurely tabled comes up in a few days, there are many arguments being made in broad and undefined terms as necessity for change. Corruption and nepotism, two age old Sri Lanka traditions, have suddenly emerged as important criteria in support of change. Looking superficially and delving into this deeper, we need to become educated and impart depth to those who cross our path before sacred principles of a nation are sacrificed together with true democracy. There are invisible forces that have ruined nations throughout the world and sooner or later, it may be our turn.

The desire for change is being bandied around without much substance or a well defined set of criteria that encapsulate what is best for the country. The time has come to engage in a definition for change without taking into consideration personalities behind the scene who are offering change. The term 'change' was used extensively in the US presidential election by President Obama. However, the change needed translated into tangible needs of the country taking into consideration 47 million people without healthcare, historically high unemployment nearing double digits, and the ongoing war that was crippling its economy.

As for Sri Lanka, the most important change has already taken place. The war that was the bane that we all waited so anxiously to end has ended. It must be noted however, that the enemy continues to be active and this time, we may not see the tangible forces that continue relentlessly to destabilize Sri Lanka. However, we choose selective amnesia with regard to facts in looking for change following the end of the war. This must be replaced with awareness and education about what goes on in the global arena that can come to roost on our doorstep too.

What really is the change needed in Sri Lanka? From all utterances and the arguments thrown around, there is no substantial action plan for the country. The election is being fought by undoing what the current regime has done, or changing actions of the other side to appease voters without regard for consequences to the country. The country is the least important in addressing 'change' while the citizens who vote believing in change have different expectations that may never be met.

Do we just look for a different face with a different set of promises that cannot be delivered by personalities that differ being at two ends of the spectrum with respect to experience and political savvy. It does not take rocket science to determine that commanding an army with all powerful control is not the same as governing a nation. Especially a small nation such as Sri Lanka that is dependent on global influences while being mindful and aware to protect itself from global interference. There are invisible hands that reach out to vulnerable areas in countries like Sri Lanka because big powers that have lost empires make a global shift to control small countries as underdogs. The leadership of small countries is met with disapproval merely for standing on their own or developing their agenda in keeping with the aspirations of normal citizens if it differs from multinational interests. This is unacceptable to the new world. In the new world, there are many unobtrusive ways to remove leaders who do not toe the line.

Change with undefined goals that do not meet the expectations of its people can be dangerous to the very existence of a country. Although the voter "expects" some changes, there are no guarantees. At this critical moment, after the end of the war in May 2009, barely eight months later which is shorter than the gestation period of a human baby, we cannot expect a 360-degree turn around of 30 years of damage. We cannot make decisions based on anecdotal references to corruption and nepotism until they are properly investigated and proven. At the same time, this is not unfamiliar to Sri Lanka or any other developing world. However, there is a difference when corruption has connections to the outside world and that is the area in which a majority of Sri Lankans are totally in the dark and need to be educated. When the debris on a road is cleared and the workmen are removed before the road is fixed, it is not a good scenario unless the next crew knows what to do. As far as the nation can see, the next crew is focussed only on one thing — eradicating corruption and nepotism while the road is heading back to a state of chaos. Nepotism is a necessary evil considering the very low trust threshold among Sri Lankans in every walk of life including those who hold the highest office in the country.

Reversal of the agenda of the ruling party to win an election is a childish game that can burn the country. Annexing the north and east of the country and reducing intelligence forces while releasing all terror suspects is a perfect recipe for disaster. These are the types of ludicrous actions that are promised by those who are used as go betweens to ruin countries and make senseless decisions as set ups that are well compensated by those who desire ruinous results.

Corruption in third world countries can take two forms. One being internal where bribery on a small scale can be considered a lesser evil. However, corruption at international level, and the participation of opposition politicians in willful actions to destabilize democratic governments that are trying to benefit the citizens of the country, is a phenomenon that has ruined many small countries throughout the world. The charges of bribery and corruption, raised internally by citizens, is encouraged by multinational interests that encourage bribery on a large scale through incentives to corrupt nationals of third world countries with promises of first world lifestyles. Many such individuals cry wolf about bribery of their opponents but accept bribes outside the counties in secret accounts while the multinationals turn a blind eye Bartering state secrets for personal gain with large-scale international bribery is an invisible way of life among the rich and powerful and those who aspire to become that category.





