World famous authors from Gore Vidal to Vikram Seth are preparing to gather in Sri Lanka in one month's time to take part in the internationally renowned Galle Literary Festival.

Following its outstanding debut on the literary calendar in January 2007 and being awarded the 'No. 1 Literary Festival in the World', by Harpers Bazaar, the 2008 event is expected to be even more of a success with hundreds of people expected to attend.

The four-day programme of writing workshops and competitions, panel discussions, topical debates on issues such as climate change, poetry readings, theatre and children's activities is being staged within the magnificent and historic UN World Heritage Fort, which organisers say proved the perfect setting last year.

An impressive line-up of celebrity writers includes acclaimed novelist, essayist and playwright Gore Vidal talking about his six-decade writing career and a rare chance to meet and listen to the renowned poet and novelist Vikram Seth. Creator of the international best selling series The No 1 Ladies' Detective Agency, Alexander McCall Smith is another high profile newcomer to the Festival. Other highlights include journalist Simon Winchester, biographer Jung Chang and award winning cookery writer and TV celebrity chef, Sophie Grigson.

Festival Director Libby Southwell said: "Last year's Festival exceeded all our expectations and put Sri Lanka firmly on the literary map. Our line-up of authors and contributors this year is simply outstanding and there is a real buzz about the event here and around the world."

The contribution of many of Sri Lanka's finest authors to English Literature is also celebrated with appearances by Shyam Selvadurai, Yasmine Gooneratne, Carl Muller, Jean Arasanayagam and Karen Roberts among the most notable. Festival committee member Ashok Ferrey also hopes it will attract book lovers from around the world: "For lovers of literature it's a wonderful chance to meet their favourite international and Sri Lankan authors, but it's also a chance for us to promote what's great about Sri Lanka to the rest of the world - its beauty, its history, its culture and, of course, its literature."

Far from being a festival just about reading books, the event also looks to celebrate the use of the English Language whether it's written, heard or spoken. Libby Southwell explained: "We want to show how language and communication can help improve educational opportunities, stimulate debate and can be a force for change. The Festival has been set up to act not just as a platform for writers, but as a forum for ideas, creativity, sharing of perspective, knowledge and experiences."

The Festival has a stronger community focus this year with local school children taking part in a debating competition, a number of teachers from the Southern Province invited to attend and then share their experiences with other teaching professionals and pupils, and 60 university students being given complementary passes to attend.

A special pricing structure has been introduced for students this year and a number of events are also being staged free of charge.





