The Ceylon Teachers Service Union (CTSU) yesterday accused the government of failing to take disciplinary action against Education Secretary Nimal Bandara who had been found guilty of an irregular land transaction by the Presidential Investigation Unit.

The union affiliated to the JVP expressed serious concern over the attempt to protect the corrupt official despite mounting evidence against his alleged shady deal. Education Minister Susil Premajayantha and all government officials are protecting him, the Union alleged.General Secretary of the CTSU Mahinda Jayasinghe told a press conference that according to the PIU report, Education Secretary Nimal Bandara had misused public funds in the purchase of a land in Heraliyawala, Kurunegala for an industrial complex during his tenure as Secretary of the North Western Provincial Council (NWPC).

"The Government Assessor had valued the land at Rs 10 million but the then Secretary of the Provincial Council Nimal Bandara had initiated steps to purchase it at Rs 23.6 million. The PIU said that the deal had been sealed even before the receipt of the report of the Government Assessor. The PIU report also proposed that Education Secretary Nimal Bandara be suspended from service for his alleged involvement in a fraudulent financial transaction while he was serving in the capacity of NWPC secretary," Jayasinghe said.

He said that during Nimal Bandara's period at the Education Ministry, there had been several malpractices though he was still serving in the post at the Ministry.

There were several spelling and other mistakes in the recently concluded G.C.E. (Ordinary Level) English paper. The Ministry had to hold a fresh G.C.E. (O/L) Mathematics II paper due to the previous paper being set outside the syllabus taught, he said.

Education Minister Susil Premajayantha when contacted by The Island said that there was no legal power for the PIU to remove a government officer and it would have to come through the Public Service Commission (PSC) or Auditor General's Department. He said, however land deals have nothing to do with the Ministry of Education. It was alleged to have taken place while he was at the North Western Provincial Council, he said.

"A PIU investigation could only make a suggestion. We can't remove our officers according to its suggestion. We can follow the orders only from the PSC or the AG to remove an officer. But those two institutions still not informed me to remove the Secretary," Minister Premajayantha said.

If the Ministry removes an officer according a PIU investigation, he would go to court. Several times during the tenure of former President Chandrika Kumaratunge, such suspects were reinstated to their posts after they obtained a court ruling, the Minister said.

Education Secretary Nimal Bandara told The Island that these trade unionists are shouting without investigates the whole process of the deal. The land owners refused to sell their land at Government Assessor's rates. Finally they agreed to sell the land at Rs. 8032. The 40 blocks of the land to be sell to industrialists at Rs. 11,000 per perch. Half of the total blocks already sold and by doing so there is an immediate profit of Rs. 2968 per perch. The government receives a Rs. 300,000 income per year. It will generate 1000 jobs too.

"The project was put into effect on the collective decisions made by the North Western Provincial Cabinet of Ministers, not a single decision was my own private individual decision. Presidential Secretary Lalith Weerathunga had also confirmed that it was not a corrupt deal. There is no need to vacate the post," Bandara said.





