We must tell the world Sri Lanka is safe to visit - DewapuraAggressive global campaign should be launched

by Harischandra Gunaratna

Anura Dewapura, the new General; Manager of Mount Lavinia Hotel said the hotel will lay more emphasis on Information Technology (IT) and adopt modern business practices where the overall operations will be computerised to render more efficient,"

This unique beach property with one of the oldest buildings dating back to the colonial times makes it one of the prime locations for the holiday makers, he said.

Asked how the hotel plans to attract more guests when the the tourist arrivals are dwindling Dewapura said in the first place the drop in tourist arrivals is a passing cloud. On the other hand, we need to launch an aggressive promotional campaign globally to convince the international community that the country is safe to visit.

"With the 30 year old war coming to an end, more tourists would want to visit here and we have to be geared to meet this demand," he pointed out.

The Mount Lavinia Hotel well known internationally for its old world charm and the scenic beauty of its surroundings. But, it all depends on how one markets a hotel he noted.

The management has plans to introduce new innovations he stressed.

THe hotel has a number of plans to upgrade its services, introduce new innovations, more restaurants, different cuisines with a variety of food and beverage activities and concepts in the near future Dewapura said.

Dewapura counts over 30 years experince in the hospitality industry in different parts of the world , having served as an Executive Chef, F&B Director and General Manager in top class hotels, restaurants and international cruises.

Food & Beverage promotions

on the pipeline at MLH

= A New Orleans style brunch on the terrace every Sunday with Jazz ands blues. The spicy Luciana Cajun food, which would very well suit the Sri Lankan palate.

= From 24 February, an all inclusive lunch including beverages. A popular band will be in attendance.





