The Island-FeaturesTourists have been warned to stop "harassing" Japan's famous kimono-clad geisha as they wander the streets of the ancient city of Kyoto.

Tourists have been warned to stop "harassing" Japan's famous kimono-clad geisha as they wander the streets of the ancient city of Kyoto.

A growing number of geisha have complained to the authorities about being pursued down the street and tugged on the sleeves of their kimonos by groups of tourists keen to take their photograph.

As a result, residents and local businesses have joined forces to protect the geisha by launching patrols of the streets of the Gion entertainment district of the city in order to prevent tourists from pestering them.

Local government officials have also published English-language warnings on websites urging overseas visitors to respect the geisha and not pursue them down the street with their cameras.

An official at Higashiyama Ward Office, which conducted research into the harassment of geisha by tourists last year, said: "Some tourists seem to have the impression that Gion is a theme park, and geisha and maiko [apprentice geisha] are walking the streets as part of a performance."

Kyoto, the ancient capital of Japan, is one of the jewels in the nation's tourist crown, attracting more than 49 million visiting tourists last year.

While the city is brimming with ancient temples, shrines and zen gardens, it is also famously home to the nation's largest surviving community of geisha.

Catching the rare sight of an elusive pale-faced geisha clipping on wooden sandals down a narrow lantern-lit Kyoto street has emerged as the holy grail of many tourist trips to the city.

As a result, geisha are increasingly pursued by tourists keen to take a photograph, as they travel between appointments in local teahouses.

With their elaborate kimono, white painted faces, red lips and exquisite manners, geisha - which translates as "person of the arts" - are traditionally trained from a young age in a range of Japanese arts such as classical dance and music in order to entertain upmarket guests at exclusive teahouses.

Complaining about the persistent attention of foreign tourists, one 18-year-old maiko told local media: "[People] approach me without saying a word and suddenly stand beside me to have photographs taken, so I get taken by surprise."

While there were more than 80,000 geisha across Japan in the 1920s, it has become an increasingly dying art form in modern day Japan with estimates today of as few as 1,000 existing geisha.



