Building Governance for SustainableSmall-Scale Fisheries: Bridging Human and Ecosystem Wellbeing-1

by Dr. Oscar AmarasingheUniversity of Ruhuna

Post-independence Sri Lanka saw significant developments in the field of fisheries. Fish production, consumption, exports and fishing incomes have all increased. There have been both winners and losers. The latter have often been the artisanal and small scale coastal fishers. Today we are left with a degraded ecosystem and fishers often break laws that aim at protecting it. All systems of governance have failed in addressing the clash between the human development goals and the ecosystem sustainability concerns. This article proposes a new strategy to address these issues based around wellbeing and interactive governance approaches.

The Issue

Today, Sri Lanka produces 319,120 MT of fish, of which 86 percent comes from the marine fisheries sub-sector, while the rest comes from inland fisheries and aquaculture. Fishing is carried out by about 200,000 fishers operating 49,000 small-scale fishing units. The total fisheries dependent population is estimated as 1 million. With the advent of blue revolution in late 1950s and the growth of the offshore and deep-sea sub-sectors, the total fish production and exports have grown continuously and, Sri Lanka today has become a net exporter of fish. The sector's importance stems from its ability to provide employment, meet 65 percent of the animal protein needs of the populace and earn valuable foreign exchange through exports.

Sri Lanka's fisheries sector is generally considered as small-scale. The coastal sub-sector, where fishing is carried out within the continental shelf up to a maximum distance of about 40 kilometres, employs 90 percent of all fishers. These individuals operate traditional crafts and small motor boats with a 2-3 member crew, producing both for subsistence and for the market. Their catches consist mostly of small pelagics, which form the major form of animal protein eaten by the rural population of Sri Lanka. This sub-sector accounts for 60 percent of total marine landings. Offshore and deep sea fishing carried out by large mechanised boats with inboard engines, is a more recent phenomenon. These crafts are mostly owned by non-fishing, asset-rich individuals, who employ fishers in their boats as crew labourers. Many aim at catching tuna and other fish demanded in international markets.

Fisher people exploiting marine resources are settled along the coastal belt in 2,200 fishing villages, but many face insecure land rights. Although negotiated entry into fisheries is possible for those outside of the fisheries sector, exit is quite difficult. Geographical separation, caste, taboos, rituals, norms and customs unique to fishing communities give rise to strong inter-personal relationships bound by trust and reciprocity. For fishers, fishing is not only an occupation, but a way of life. In respect of social organisation, fisheries cooperatives play an important role in assisting fishers in securing diverse livelihood capitals to meet their varied wellbeing goals.

While fisheries were governed according to community norms until the time of Independence (1948), with the state playing a minor role, increased state intervention occurred in the post independent era. After Independence, the state spearheaded a mechanisation drive, introducing mechanised crafts and new gear and fishing techniques. Increased fish production and consumption were the objectives of fisheries development. Apart from community governance the state entered fisheries as another actor of governance. The modern developments, including trade liberalization in 1977 exerted heavy pressure on fisheries and signs of resource degradation began to emerge. In order to protect the resources from further degradation, the Fisheries and Aquatic Resources Act was enacted in 1996. Yet, fisheries laws are very weakly enforced and incidences of law breaking giving rise to conflicts are often observed.

While fish production, exports and consumption have all increased, the impact of the present state of affairs on fisheries sub-sectors has been different. The coastal fisheries resources show signs of degradation mainly due to high fishing pressure and the use of destructive gear. Ecosystem research is either inadequate or whatever knowledge generated by research does not reach the policy table. State regulations on the prohibition of banned gear and the introduction of lobster ban (during two months of the year) are often violated. While increased vulnerability of fishers, their weak access to livelihood capitals, and lack of alternative employment could push fishers to engage in resource overexploitation, market driven forces could also push others to exert heavy pressure on resources by breaking laws that prohibit the use of destructive fishing gear, such as monofilament nets, dynamite, etc. Rule breakers are often the winners.

Competition and conflicts among fishers operating gear having differential catch capabilities, and between inshore fishers and those offshore crafts 'illegally' operating in coastal waters are also evident. Moreover, costal resources are now being increasingly used by non-fisher stakeholders, who include, among others, the tourist interests. Fishers (in Hambantota for example) have lost their traditional landing sites, beach access roads and beach seine sites due to expanding tourist interests, seriously affecting their wellbeing. Most of these affected fishers find little employment outside fisheries and being powerless they are also been exploited by middlemen monopsonies. Although fishing incomes seem to have increased, fishers are hard hit by their weak access to other kinds of resources important to their livelihoods and wellbeing. Neither the community nor the state governance systems have been able to address these issues effectively. While the government has now changed its focus from coastal to the offshore and deep sea sector, it has not been able to shift fishing effort from the heavily exploited coastal sector to the offshore sector. The beneficiaries of state assistance for such a shift have been new entrants having no history of fishing.

The deep sea sector is also confronted with a number of problems: those associated with conditions of work and arrest at sea. Conflicts among owners and crew labourers are on the rise. While crew labourers in multiday crafts earn higher incomes than those in the coastal sector, their work conditions have declined tremendously: they have less shore leave and enjoy no social security benefits. Moreover, when arrested at sea, they are imprisoned for long periods of time and the wellbeing of their families is seriously threatened. Although, the incomes in multi-day fishing have risen with export growth, very little benefits of trade have trickled down to the labouring fishers. Multiday craft owners, traders and exporters have been the usual winners.

Women's contribution to fisheries in Sri Lanka often remains invisible and under-valued. They play an important role in pre-harvest activities and processing in all coasts, collecting mollusks (gleaning) in coastal lagoons in the West and East coasts, and in trading on the West coast. Women also support men's fishing activities through household management and provision of credit. Most of women's fisheries-related activities are under-remunerated, with negative consequences for the well-being of their households.

We have a lot more to do in fisheries, especially in the war affected coastal areas of the North and the East, which in 1983 accounted for 60 percent of the country's fish production. In our efforts at finding solutions to the multi-faceted problems in the North and the East, we should not repeat mistakes we have earlier made in the South. With the ending of the war against the LTTE, the government is burdened with the responsibility of rebuilding the Northern and Eastern regions and improving the wellbeing of the people, which include among others, fishers, their families and the resources on which they depend. There are number of questions to be answered including the following: How are communities to be organised? What are the wellbeing issues of the people? What institutional mechanisms are required to address these issues? What is the status of the ecosystem and how can the wellbeing needs of the ecosystem and those of the fishers be balanced? Another issue is the large scale exploitation of Sri Lanka's resources by Indian trawler fishermen, which have given rise to conflicts between fishers of both countries.

If these issues continue to remain unattended, we will have an ocean with a few fish and a community of fishers threatened with acute poverty, food insecurity and illbeing, exerting more pressure on resources. "If they don't fish they starve, and if they fish, they will degrade the resources and then starve" (Jentoft Svein, (2008) "Unravelling the Vicious Circle: Poverty Alleviation and Sustainable Livelihoods in Small-scale Fisheries", Research Hand Book, Povefish Project, MAREMA, University of Tromso,). What has caused this sad state of affairs, after so much work has been done to develop the fisheries sector? We are now compelled to accept that we have failed in our efforts to ensure both the wellbeing of the fishers and that of the ecosystem- which is indeed a governance failure.





