Readers of The Island who read my response titled " President's Iran Visit: Barking up the wrong tree" in the Dec 7th issue, to the two part feature on 'President's Iran tour in retrospect- part I and those who read part II by a special correspondent, would have been more than convinced that the writer of the two part series, apart from looking forward to being picked up by the US network in Sri Lanka for an award to visit the US for free, was certainly an ex- foreign ministry guy who seems unhappy that present day foreign ministry officials, whom he had sought to fault are no longer wasting time debating on diplomatic niceties and nuances but working on achieving concrete benefits to Sri Lanka both diplomatically and economically.

The special correspondent, while admitting that the US decision to de-list Sri Lanka from countries which receive American military aid, had been taken prior to the Sri Lanka President's visit to Iran and that therefore the US decision had no bearing on the visit, nonetheless seems to regret that by supporting Iran's nuclear programme for the peaceful purpose of generating electricity, Sri Lanka had lost the opportunity of persuading the US to change its decision. Though the argument sounds rational one must not forget that the opportunity to change the US decision never existed with or without the Iranian visit for the reason US policy makers had their own agenda on Sri Lanka, to which I shall refer later on. In any event I dare say, it is penny-wise pound-foolish for Sri Lanka to dance to the tune of any one country.

If the US is sincere in helping Sri Lanka to crush terrorism, the US needs only 10 days of fire power, I repeat TEN DAYS only, over the Wanni hide-out of Prabhakaran to totally eradicate terrorism in Sri Lanka, a menace, which had been bleeding Sri Lanka for over 25 years! The US needed only 30 days to crush Saddam Hussain, that too, waging an illegal war!

After all, the US is a country driven by the arms industry. Nearly 500 arms manufacturing factories existing in the US and Israel, decide between war and peace in the rest of the world. Everyone knows, that the Americans are not that foolish to finish off in 10 days time what is good business for over 25 years and perhaps for many more years- at the cost of our blood, body and bowels!

It is a pity that your special correspondent is looking for diplomatic 'niceties' and hair splitting 'nuances' to please the US, which is of course holding the carrot but whacking us with the stick, ever more strongly, posing off however all the while, as the saviour!

Let me quote from what Dr. Dayan Jayatillake had to say, 'The Island' of 25th December 2007

'Personal Perspective: Make 2008 the year of victory', "these western states seem determined to prevent the military victory of the Sri Lankan state over the tigers, and seem to prefer the survival/ existence of the tigers as a military entity. Sri Lanka cannot afford to be deterred by these pressures, and sacrifice its future Sri Lanka cannot be oblivious to the use of the slogan of "humanitarian crisis" to dismantle the former Yugoslavia. Today, the west stands ready to ignore the UN resolution that reiterates that Kosovo is a part of Serbia and to recognize Kosovo as an independent state."

That, notwithstanding, Sri Lanka needs to ensure good relations with all the countries, west or east. It is important that your special correspondent urges the west, to respect Sri Lanka's rights to deal with any and every country it considers necessary to secure its economic needs. After all, Iran buys nearly 20% of our tea exports. And for years, we have been buying our requirements of our crude oil from this country. It is wrong for the US, which may have its own problems with the Iranian revolution for driving out the Anglo American puppet the Shah of Iran, to take revenge on Sri Lanka, for getting economic support, at a time, when Sri Lanka needs it most.

Your special correspondent has in the part II of his article referred to the economic benefits that Sri Lanka will gain, if the promised projects are implemented. However, he is yawningly pessimistic that they would be implemented. Probably, he is influenced by how western countries promise and implement very little. This pessimism is like the story of "sour grapes" that the proverbial fox could not reach! I cannot speak for the Iranians but unlike western aid, none of which had been promised at heads of state level, the Iranian aid had been pledged by the President of Iran in the presence of the President of Sri Lanka and reduced into MOUs, signed by the Ministers of the two countries, in the presence of the two Presidents, the Ambassadors and the media. I do not think they were all acting for an Iranian film or a Sri Lankan teledrama, to entertain the Americans!

Another matter the special correspondent has raised is regarding the MOU for media cooperation between the two countries and has expressed the view, without giving reasons, that this could 'embrace' Sri Lanka in another problem with our neighbouring countries! I am, of course, unaware of this MOU, or its contents, but all I wish to ask is what is wrong with third world countries joining hands to exchange news and views? After all the media is heavily dominated by the west and what is wrong in having our direct channels of communication!

It is also well known that western news agencies have been boosting governments which are pro-western while constantly putting out negative reports of countries which are not perceived as pro-western.

Why is the special correspondent silent on the media co-operation that Sri Lanka enjoys with the Voice of America(VOA) and the BBC, with the BBC having special access to Sri Lankan audience everyday to broadcast directly and through the SLBC, programmes in English, Sinhala and Tamil? And, they do carry a heap of pro-tiger propaganda! Who is the neighbour, who is worried?





