Afghan villagers burn U.S. flag during a protest rally against the U.S. and Afghan governments following a U.S. operation in their village, in Mehterlam, capital of Laghman province, east of Kabul, Afghanistan on Sunday, Jan. 25, 2009. Afghan President Hamid Karzai's latest criticism follows a Saturday raid in Laghman province that the U.S. says killed 15 armed militants, including a woman with an RPG, but that Afghan officials say killed civilians. (AP)

There is currently a great deal of 'hope' that the area of International Relations will usher in a new era of diplomacy on the international stage by the new Obama administration. Some influential voices within Barack Obama's administration have hinted at a doctrine of "smart power" as a means of furthering U.S. interests abroad while moving away from the doctrine of "war on terror". During his campaign, President Obama declared Afghanistan and Pakistan the "central front" in the international counterterrorism effort. However, due to political constraints, President Obama has stayed away from mentioning the Kashmir issue as being a major reason for regional instability, now that he is on office. President Obama quite correctly pointed out that more attention has to be paid to Afghanistan and realised that the Americans and the coalition forces are struggling in the war against the Taliban. There is reason to believe however, that the Obama administration will not usher in major changes in foreign policy with regard to Afghanistan.From an administrative standpoint,Robert Gates continues to be the US Defense Sectary, which is a remnant from the Bush administration. On the 23rd of January 23, 2009 several missiles were fired from U.S. drone aircraft struck two targets in North and South Waziristan that have said to have killed at least 18 people. The two strikes were the first taken under the Obama administration and seemed to signal that the practice of attacks on militants in Pakistan through drone air predator aircrafts that invade Pakistani air space will continue. Even though the Obama White House is currently working together with the State Department and the Pentagon on a new strategy for dealing with Afghanistan and Pakistan, there are signs that that there will be no major changes in policy. Many speculated that the air strikes would end under the Obama administration mainly due to a more soft policy approach espoused during the campaign.

There have been calls by some in Afghanistan for the continuation of the previous administrations policies. Kai Eide, the Norwegian diplomat who has been heading the U.N. mission in Afghanistan for the last nine months ,has warned against any major change in policy from the Bush administration. During an Associated Press interview in Kabul, Eide said that the incoming U.S. administration, "has a unique opportunity to gather strength, gather energy ... and build on the trends we have seen" toward building the Afghan security forces and propping up the country's economy. He further went on to state, "my appeal is not grand strategy discussion, and my appeal is concrete implementation effort." Eides comments do make sense, since the ousting of the Taliban there have been numerous Afghan Ministers, Governors, Public officials and development strategies that have come and gone with little work being done. There have been also major movements in Provincial Reconstruction Teams (PRT) that have been stationed in different provinces whose responsibility has been to engage in development projects. Thus, there has been a lack of consistency that has led to a lack of development in many of the provinces.

The major change that is eagerly anticipated under the new administration is the new troop surge. There is to be an influx of 30,000 additional troops, joining the 36,000 stationed in Afghanistan. This move is said to be essential in bringing about security in the country. However, boots on the ground does not necessarily mean that the country would be governable. During the Soviet occupation there were up to 235,000 Soviet troops supported by 300,000 Afghan troops fighting the Mujahideen, though these forces had little or no control over much of rural Afghanistan. Thus, numbers by itself does not guarantee success against the Taliban. On the other hand, the Taliban exhorted absolute control over most of Afghanistan with an estimated force of 25,000- 50,000 depending on the operational needs of the leadership. President Obama has to be rather wary of this reality in Afghanistan.

The relationship between the Karzai government and the Obama administration has also been strained. President Karzai, whose local popularity has plummeted, has sought to distance himself from some actions by the U.S., since being seen as too close to the U.S may imperil his re-election bid. President Karzai has questioned the logic of using air strikes and other assertive military tactics to kill or capture insurgents embedded in civilian populations in the past. President Karzai, addressing the Afghan parliament, stated a day before the Obama inauguration, "we never complained about the killing of our soldiers. We did not complain about the killing of our governors. We did not complain about the killing of our ministers. We never complained about the killing of our parliamentarians and senators," Karzai said. "But we do not accept civilian casualties in the war on terror."

President Karzai's administration has also come in for criticism by the Democrats. Ahmed Rasheed a regional expert said, " the kind of criticism we have seen by the Democrats so far on President Karzai — and the lack of good governance — and insufficient dealings with the drugs problem and corruption" , it is expected that this criticism will continue under the newly appointed special envoy to Pakistan and Afghanistan- Richard Holbrooke- He outlined the challenges in Afghanistan and Pakistan by stating, " (Afghanistan and Pakistan) two very distinct countries with extraordinarily different histories, and yet intertwined by geography, ethnicity, and the current drama." Though, he stayed well away from commenting on India and Kashmir.

It is true that most moves made by the new administration are steps in the right direction. But one must note that there have been no major departures from the Bush administration policies. As Husain Haqqani remarked on the appointment of Richard Holbrooke,"he brings tremendous experience and knowledge, and proven diplomatic skills."9 This is in fact true; yet, if the issue of Kashmir is not dealt with any meaningful manner all the qualities of this man may well go to waste.

Perhaps the greatest challenge in Afghanistan will be to reconcile the imbalance between what Afghanistan is — a complex mosaic of traditional tribal structures, ethnic groups, war lords and now politicians — and what the United States wants it to be — a burgeoning nation-state governed centrally from Kabul. Thus, before planning on eradicating the Taliban the Obama administration will have to take a closer look at what it wants Afghanistan to be and then set about going to achieve it.





