The Health Ministry denied allegations levelled by the All Ceylon Health Services Union that the National Blood Transfusion Service with support from the Health Ministry, had sold 750 litres of human plasma to India. Addressing the press, Director, National Blood Centre (NBC), Dr. Ananda Gunasekare said yesterday (12), all what they had done is to send it to India where life saving elements from it is extracted to be utilised on needy patients.

Sri Lanka does not have the technology to retrieve this life savings factors from blood plasma, he explained.

He further said that the NBC annually collects around 300,000 litres of blood. After dividing its components namely; the red blood cells, white blood cells and platelet, around 50,000 litres of plasma remained. Only fifty percent of this is utilised. The remaining amount would prove an environmental hazard if discarded. Therefore it is put to good use by sending it to India and retrieving the life saving elements, Gunasekare pointed out.

The plasma is sent to Reliance Life Services (Pvt) Ltd, an Indian company.

Sri Lanka spends Rs.380 million importing plasma factors. "However if the endeavour of retrieving life saving factors in India turns out to be successful, we would be able to cut down on the expenditure," he said.

Dr. Athula Kahandaliyanage said that this year's budget for drugs alone was thirteen billion rupees and a part of it could be saved by saving on purchasing blood saving factors.

Sri Lanka had agreed to trade a part of the fractionised factors with India while acquiring the national requirement. India paid seven US dollars for a litre of plasma while the money has been deposited in the National Health Development Fund.

Fielding questions, he said that the Ministry would continue sending plasma for fractionising should this trial venture be successful. "We would continue to send human plasma to India or any other country which has the technology till Sri Lanka was able to handle it locally. Dr. Kahandaliyanage stated that the method was used in developed countries to deal with the remaining plasma content.





