Asian kid living in London enters home. His school friends shout: "Happy birthday! Surprise! "The kid continues on his way to his room, saying: "I have homework. Enjoy the party. I may join you later."

That's a true story. That kid was me. I wasn't being obnoxious. Asian kids are rigidly conditioned to a) study; b) have bad haircuts; c) like maths; and d) eat foods that other kids find disgusting like dried squid or sliced, char-grilled dissident. My upbringing did me no harm at all, except to turn me into the drooling, unstable, gun-polishing, stairwell-lurker that I am today.

These days I live in Asia and half the moms I know are Tiger Moms (a term popularized by US monster-mom Amy Chua), while others take a kinder, gentler stance. Let's compare them.

1) What do you ask when you meet your child's teacher? Nice Mom: "Is my daughter happy?" Tiger Mom: "Is my daughter top of the class?"

2) What do you say when your child brings home a finger-painting? Nice Mom: "Lovely! This blob looks like a cloud and this one looks like a rabbit." Tiger Mom: "Eww! Horrible! This looks like a CHILD painted it." Nice Mom to teacher: "She loves art. Can you cultivate those skills?" Tiger Mom to teacher: "She loves art. Can you beat that out of her? Here's a stick."

3) What guidance do you give the child about life? Nice Mom: "Eat your vegetables and grow up big and strong." Tiger Mom: "You must try, try, try, to succeed. Even then you'll probably fail. Life is HARD."

4) How do you handle work-life balance? Nice Mom: "After your homework, we'll go to the playground." Tiger Mom: "Work, work, work. Even then you probably fail. Life is HARD."

5) How do you help her chose a career? Nice Mom: "So, sweetheart, do you still want to be a dancer or a singer or a princess?" Tiger Mom: "You can choose from this list: doctor, medical practitioner, surgeon or physician." Nice Mom: "What's important is to do what you love." Tiger Mom: "You gotta earn a lot of money so you can look after me when I'm old. Life is HARD."

6) How would you help your child learn a poem? Nice Mom: "Let's make up a funny limerick." Tiger Mom: "If you have to memorize something, here's the Periodic Table."

7) What do you say to her father? Nice Mom: "Good news, she's making friends." Tiger Mom: "Bad news, she's making friends."

8) What do you say at the parent-teacher conference? Nice Mom: "We want her gently stretched without being intimidated." Tiger Mom: "Can you guarantee she'll get straight? Before you answer, I want Which do I recommend? Neither. I'm a guy. Men play no part in this decision. Amy Chua lives in the west with a Caucasian husband but her kids are raised Asian-style. Your humble narrator lives in Asia with a Caucasian wife, but our kids are raised Western-style.

You see, moms may come in two flavors. But female spouses only come in one flavor: Tiger Wives. When it comes to family decisions, women rule.





Having a clear vision about the task and the ability to remain firm without any ambiguity will make the path for development smooth. By the same token we can create a better country if we work according to a strategic plan as we did during the war, stated Defence Secretary Gotabaya Rajapaksa in an interview with The Manila Times published on Sunday (30).

These days with peace firmly in place and development the mounting creed, Defence Secretary Gotabaya Rajapaksa believes that "the commitment and discipline of each individual, is crucial in achieving success in the development process," The Manila Times said.

"Now that every part of the county is accessible to all Sri Lankans we should all be on our guard to ensure internal security will never again be compromised or undermined", Defence Secretary added.

"We have created an environment for everybody to live in peace as Sri Lankans, as one nation. The ground reality is we must give people the opportunity to live peacefully, with jobs and education. That is what they want, and that is what the government will ensure they get in Sri Lanka", he added.

Following is the full text of the report:

Outlining the dividends of peace in Sri Lanka

HE is credited as having played a decisive role in giving Sri Lankans (Sinhalese, Tamils and Muslims alike)—who during the dark and dismal days of the three-decade old separatist conflict were reduced to leaving their homes each day unsure if they would ever return home from work, school or even routine journeys without encountering bloodshed—their lives back.

But by cruel irony it's not a luxury Defence Secretary Gotabaya Rajapaksa can claim to enjoy. Two years after the end of the war—that brought into play in the Tamil Tigers one of the world's deadliest terrorist outfits—he still has to live in an intrusive security cocoon.

Sitting in his well-appointed (and well-defended) office at the Ministry of Defence complex that is an oasis of calm and green he accepts this twist of fate with a weary shrug of his shoulders. "Of course, I wish it was different. But that is something I have to accept since being complacent can be a dangerous thing.

In fact, that's the message I am trying to spread nationwide because now that every part of the county is accessible to all Sri Lankans we should all be on our guard to ensure internal security will never again be compromised or undermined".

He goes on, the pride and awe in his tone palpable: "You know, at the beginning of this war in the early 1980s I was a junior army officer in Jaffna leading a small platoon of soldiers, all of whom had never, or for that matter even wanted to, fire a gun in anger. And there I was almost 30 years later having the honor and privilege to play a leading hand in putting in place not only a well-equipped 200,000 strong military force, but also instilling in them the mind-set to be a mean but disciplined fighting force primed to bring the hostilities to an end".

There were, of course, other factors that also came neatly into play. Not least of these being that the Defence Secretary's boss, Commander-in-Chief President Mahinda Rajapaksa, was his older brother, thus giving him unprecedented and unfettered access to the supreme seat of political and military power.

And as Defence Secretary Rajapaksa is quick to note, four Presidents of eight previous governments failed to defeat the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Elam (LTTE) because of domestic political posturing (which too often left successive defence secretaries operating with hands tied behind their back) and international pressure brought about at the cynical behest of Tamil Tiger surrogates abroad. This caused the military operations to be stopped half way through, resulting in the LTTE believing that they were invincible.

The Defence Secretary points out that President Rajapaksa tried hard to bring the LTTE to a democratic path several times but finally gave up when the Tamil Tigers' only response was to target him for assassination. "That's when the President decided that the LTTE should be defeated militarily and gave me my mission orders", he says.

But that was then and this is now. These days with peace firmly in place and development the mounting creed, he believes that "the commitment and discipline of each individual is crucial in achieving success in the development process". He adds: "Having a clear vision about the task and the ability to remain firm without any ambiguity will make the path for development smooth. By the same token we can create a better country if we work according to a strategic plan as we did during the war."

On the question of discipline, Defense Secretary Rajapaksa—acting on his wide brief which also includes peace and order—has spearheaded a move to install Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) cameras all over the capital Colombo in order to curb crime, and over a hundred have been installed in strategic locations already.

This early he has done his bit on the development front too. Five months ago when a top management team from the international luxury hotel chain Shangi-La came to Sri Lanka to check out the possibilities of investing there, Defence Secretary Rajapaksa, in a matter of just a day, made a favorable decision on the prime ocean-view location that the Shangri-La coveted for a hotel and residential complex that would infuse dollars worth hundreds of millions to the country's economy.

It did help that the 12-acre site which sold for $125 million came directly under the purview of the Defence Ministry. But nonetheless, Chairman/CEO Shangri-La Asia Ean Kuok (son of Malaysian sugar baron Robert Kuok who founded the hotel group) was quoted as saying that it was "the fastest deal the company had sealed anywhere in the world".

In a parting shot at its detractors on the global stage Rajapaksa remarks: "In recent weeks some people have tried to make a big deal about the diplomatic cables leaked on WikiLeaks. But if you study the postings on WikiLeaks you can see that much of it pertaining to Sri-Lanka before and after the war is based on diplomatic cocktail circuit chatter. And it amazes me that mature countries like the United States and the United Kingdom would make policy decisions relating to Sri Lanka based on nothing more than gossip."

"Today we have a situation where the former top three leaders of the Tamil Tigers after its slain leader Velupillai Prabhakaran are working with the government. Two are actually in government positions while the other is working with us in a non-governmental capacity. Unfortunately, there is still a dwindling—but vociferous—band of Tamils living overseas with erstwhile Tamil Tiger affiliations who consider that good news from our side is bad news for them. But the truth will always prevail.

"We have created an environment for everybody to live in peace as Sri Lankans, as one nation. The ground reality is we must give people the opportunity to live peacefully, with jobs and education. That is what they want, and that is what the government will ensure they get in Sri Lanka".





Dr. Sarath Abeyakoon appointed to the Board of Ceylinco Healthcare Services

January 31, 2011, 10:40 pm

Ceylinco Healthcare Services Limited (CHSL) has announced the appointment of senior Consultant Oncologist Dr. Sarath Abeyakoon to the company's Board of Directors.

One of Sri Lanka's most senior medical professionals in the field of Oncology, Dr. Abeyakoon MBBS, MD has served as Senior Oncologist and Medical Director of the Ceylinco Radiation Treatment Centre since 2007.

The Centre, which introduced state-of-the-art Linear Accelerator technology to the country for the treatment of cancer, is one of three facilities owned and managed by CHSL, a wholly-owned subsidiary of life insurance leader Ceylinco Life. The other two facilities are the Ceylinco Healthcare Centre and the Ceylinco Diabetes Centre.

"Dr. Abeyakoon's extensive knowledge in the field of cancer treatment including Intensity Modulated Radiation Therapy (IMRT) and his vast experience as a senior medical administrator will be of immense value to the Board as CHSL considers its next phase of development and growth," the company's Chairman R. Renganathan said.

Trained in Sri Lanka and at the Royal London Hospital, Whitechapel, UK, Dr. Abeyakoon counts more than 20 years of experience as a senior consultant in the field of Oncology, and has served as Consultant Oncologist at the Maharagama Cancer Hospital, the country's largest facility for the treatment of cancer. He was also the Senior Specialist Medical Officer in charge of the Cancer Unit at the ANGAU Memorial Hospital in Papua New Guinea for three years. From 2003 to 2006, Dr. Abeyakoon served as Chairman of the Board of Study in Clinical Oncology in Sri Lanka. He was awarded the Presidential Award for Scientific Research in 2010.

The Ceylinco Radiation Treatment Centre is equipped with the country's first Linear Accelerator, the international 'Gold Standard' in the delivery of high precision radiation therapy for the treatment of many forms of cancer, including 3D Conformal Radiotherapy and Intensity Modulated Radiation Therapy. The Centre located at Park Street, Colombo 2, also offer Brachytherapy (short distance radiation treatment) with the most advanced equipment available, and Radioactive Iodine Treatment.





The Governor of Central Bank of Sri Lanka, Ajith Nivard Cabraal declared open the new headquarters of the rising star of the finance industry, Vallibel Finance, paying glowing tribute to the company's meteoric rise. "This new office is a great reflection of how far Vallibel has come over the last 4 years," said the Governor.

Situated at 310, Galle Road, the new 5-story office is merely a few metres away from the previous Vallibel Finance head office and houses the expanding operations of the company as it seeks to infuse fresh impetus to its development strategy.

"It really is a pleasure to see our finance sector's progress reflected in the achievements of this young company. Vallibel should be very proud of these new premises and I believe we can expect great thing from them in the future", the Governor told a large gathering of top business and finance industry professionals and Vallibel's loyal customers.

"At this time, the nation is pushing forward with a development drive unlike anything it's ever seen before," elaborated Cabraal. "In terms of the financial sector, we are establishing all the necessary elements to take this sector forward." He went on to say that Vallibel is very fortunate to be under the leadership of Dhammika Perera, who is rightly acknowledged as being the most influential and successful young investor of the contemporary era.

"As an investor, I believe this a key period for us," stated Dhammika Perera, Chairman of Vallibel Finance and the Vallibel Group, as well as the main individual shareholder of Hayleys PLC and Sampath Bank. "Now the business community must do its duty to the country by investing in local businesses and creating local opportunities. This is the time for us as investors to assume leadership in the drive for development and take the nation forward. I for one am ready to take this stand."

Having successfully opened several branches across the island, the company had been planning these new premises for some time, according to Jayantha Rangamuwa, Managing Director of Vallibel Finance. "This new office is a great leap ahead of Vallibel Finance," stated Rangamuwa. "We have grown immensely over the last 4 years, and these new premises will be instrumental in helping us deliver a better calibre of service to our customers."

"The strength of Vallibel as a young challenger in the financial industry has inspired much confidence in us, as demonstrated by our highly successful IPO in April 2010," said Rangamuwa. "Our impressive rise is the product of our talented and highly motivated team's hard work, as well as the guidance and leadership of our illustrious Chairman, the dynamic young Dhammika Perera, and our exceptional Board of Directors. Of course we are ever-grateful to the public and the business community for their confidence in us."





Chairman Sunshine Holdings PLC Rienzie T. Wijetilleke told shareholders the improved performance was based on contributions from all major sectors, with plantations recording a 49 percent increase backed by record rubber prices and FMCG segment margins and the healthcare sector improving sales of higher margin diagnostics and surgical segment sales. The other segments of the group are packaging, travel and leisure and hydro power.

The Company's has moved into the leisure sector with the setting up of two 'Mandira' boutique bungalows in the Upcountry with more to follow in the months ahead. Increased tourist arrivals as well as effective marketing have led to higher than anticipated occupancy during the period. We forecast this sector to grow into a sizeable business in the group as we expand across the country and tourist arrivals improve," Wijetilleke said.

"The Company's active interest in Hydropower through Sunshine Energy Ltd, has resulted in the construction of our first project, a 1.7 Megawatt unit in Waltrim estate, Lindula. We anticipate project completion by December 2011.Two other projects have been finalized and work will begin soon, ensuring we achieve our target of 10 Mw by 2013," he said.





Cutting out meat could save almost £200 on the average person's food bill each year and help reduce greenhouse emissions, a new report out today claims.

The first guidelines for an environmentally-friendly diet recommends just 4% meat to meet the 2020 climate change targets.

According to the Livewell report released by wildlife charity WWF and the Rowett Institute of Nutrition and Health, red and white meat are ''hotspots'' for environmental impact.

Latest figures showed the UK diet currently includes around 16% meat.

The Livewell 2020 regime would also involve eating more fruit, vegetables and cereal, and less processed products to reduce the environmental impact of the food industry.

Authors of the report said the low-carbon diet, which still allows for chocolate, crisps and chips, would cost £28.40 per person per week compared with an average spend of £32.12 per person in 2009. The savings would amount to £193 a year.

It said: ''With increasing recognition of the environmental impact of food and drink, future food policy and dietary advice need to go beyond the traditional focus on nutrient recommendations for health to include wider issues of sustainability.''

As well as a small percentage of meat, the Livewell 2020 diet also includes 35% fruit and vegetables, 29% bread, pasta, rice and potatoes and 15% dairy products.

A seven-day sample menu included a breakfast of high-fibre cereal with semi-skimmed milk, wholemeal sandwiches for lunch and dishes such as chicken curry and rice, macaroni cheese and chilli beef tortillas for dinner.





Advise Colombo not to attack Indian fishermen, Karunanidhi appeals to PM

January 31, 2011, 11:10 pm

By S. Venkat Narayan Our Special Correspondent

NEW DELHI, January 31: Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Muthuvel Karunanidhi today appealed to Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh to advise Sri Lanka in "strong terms" to refrain from attacking Indian fishermen in the sea between the two countries.

Karunanidhi met Dr Singh at his 7, Race Course Road residence and took up the issue of recent "brutal attacks" allegedly by the Sri Lankan Navy on fishermen from Tamil Nadu.

He suggested to the Prime Minister that the presence of Navy and Coast Guard along the International Maritime border between India and Sri Lanka should be strengthened to avoid recurrence of such incidents.

"During the meeting with the Prime Minister, the Chief Minister raised the need to advise the Sri Lankan Government in strong terms to refrain from such uncalled for attacks," an official statement from the Chief Minister's Office said.

Sharing the concerns of the Tamil Nadu Government on the issue, Dr Singh said he has directed External Affairs Minister SM Krishna to depute a high-level delegation to Sri Lanka to "personally convey our serious concern" to the Sri Lankan Government.

Dr Singh also assured Karunanidhi that he will speak to Defence Minister AKAntony on the issue of strengthening the Navy and Coast Guard along the Indo-Sri Lanka maritime border.

The meeting between Dr Singh and Karunanidhi comes against the backdrop of two fishermen from Tamil Nadu being killed last fortnight in two separate incidents, allegedly by the Sri Lankan Navy after they inadvertently crossed into the Sri Lankan waters.

Opposition AIADMK has been accusing the Centre and State Governments of failing to send a stern warning to Colombo.





The tea Board 'Tea Market Update' Volume 6 no. 3, July – September 2010, which presumably is the latest news on Tea in the Tea Board web site carried details of export markets. Details included traditional export points, mainly Russia, most Middle East Countries, Turkey, and the outsider, Japan. Egypt was nowhere in sight. Egypt was one of our lost markets, not UK as well.

Tea Board details did not include any new markets in Europe, the US, or for that matter Australia. (ref table 9 indicating top ten destinations of Ceylon Tea.) Information contained therein was already published by us as 2010 progressed.

What this meant was that the Tea Board web site needed urgent updating.

Contents in the web site report also contained a Ministerial visit to Kenya ion September last year. The report said a 'Tea promotional tour of Kenya.' But there was no consequential feed back on results from this visit.

Reverting to the Tea Board letter dated 21st January, news on production to end 2010, was good. Contents were that green Tea exports had increased to 3.2 million kilos so too CTC; Cut twist & curl, up to 18.3 million kilos. Further details included Bio, Instant, Reclaimed, Orthodox, grouped together had export figures which read307.7 million kilos.

Production figures were that last year produced 329.3 million kilos, was the best ever tea year on record. Surpassing 2008. That year production returns were harvests of about 318 million.

This news too was carried in our Tea column last week.

Phenomena of good weather, tranquility in the Plantations, contributed to an outstanding year. Could these results be repeated? Was the next question to be asked. We consulted two private holdings who were confident given usual weather patterns these results could be bettered. The formal sector were not quite that enthusiastic forecasting expected results.

Lanka Commodity Brokers Ltd., said in their Weekly Tea market report, last week Low grown production was sustaining the industry. Green leaf suppliers, consequent to good prices obtained from most Private Tea Factory owners, most of whom are in the environs of Galle and Ratnapura are making substantial profits. Small timers get as much as SLR 65. To SLR 70. Per kilo for green leaf supplied.

Costs are comparatively low, because most such holdings are worked as family units.

They urge that the Small- holder sector be adequately advised to enhance growth and crop through good cultural practices.

The gross sale price to date this year was recorded at SLR. 393.32. Last year during the same period it was SLR. 388.30 Likelyhood of these prices improving could not be ruled out they said.

The second sale in February , sale of 8th/ 9th will have barely 6 million kilos on offer.

All brokers reports recorded that last week the market held and prices were good.

Expected seasonal Tea from The Western districts, of Talawakelle, Hatton, Maskeliya, Bogowantalawa, and the Lindulla Valley, will score good prices. So Too Nuwara Eliyas.

Market conditions being what they are Ceylon Tea will be a strong marketable commodity exported From Sri Lanka over the next few weeks.





Etisalat's vision of enabling our children to access knowledge was once again fortified with its most recent CSR project at the Sri Dhammananda Vidyalaya in Yapamma, Hopton. This heart-warming initiative saw the generous donation of a fully equipped library and education equipment including a large volume of books, TV, DVD player and a projector, as part of Etisalat's drive to provide opportunities for our children to 'access today's world through education'. As part of this initiative, Etisalat has selected some of the most deserving and deprived schools to set up an Etisalat knowledge center. Most of the reading materials available are relevant to the student's everyday academic lessons, thereby aiding them with the proper required knowledge to be well informed in these respective areas.

While the Sri Dhammananda Vidyalaya comprises many talented students, the lack of direction and resources restricts and limits their future potential and pursuance of education. Etisalat believes that the knowledge center will assist them in their cognitive development thereby paving the way for a brighter tomorrow. Notably, the teachers at the school are planning to form a reading club providing access to the library to the entire student population.k

Having already opened such knowledge centers in Awissawella, Padukka, Mahagoda and Ahangama (Galle) this is the 5th opening in a nine phase plan. The Sri Dhammananda Vidyalaya Yapamma, Hopton is school to 100 students from grade 1 through Ordinary Level. The School Principle Rev. Kandawinnw Gunanada Thero expressed his gratitude for the resources and the opportunity, saying that the students are talented and keen to learn' "We embraced this gesture with open arms, thanking Etisalat for enriching Sri Lankafuture generations with the gift of knowledge. Meanwhile, Etisalat CEO Dumindra Ratnayaka said, "As a company that recognizes that knowledge is the foundation of tomorrow's generation and future professionals, Etisalat takes pride in providing such opportunities through the knowledge center." The project was well received by the students and the community alike with a vibration ceremony showcasing the numerous talents of the students.





Himalayan glaciers not melting because of climate change, report finds

January 31, 2011, 9:58 pm

Himalayan glaciers are actually advancing rather than retreating, claims the first major study since a controversial UN report said they would be melted within quarter of a century.

By Dean Nelson, New Delhi and Richard Alleyne

Researchers have discovered that contrary to popular belief half of the ice flows in the Karakoram range of the mountains are actually growing rather than shrinking.

The discovery adds a new twist to the row over whether global warming is causing the world's highest mountain range to lose its ice cover.

It further challenges claims made in a 2007 report by the UN's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change that the glaciers would be gone by 2035.

Although the head of the panel Dr Rajendra Pachauri later admitted the claim was an error gleaned from unchecked research, he maintained that global warming was melting the glaciers at "a rapid rate", threatening floods throughout north India.

The new study by scientists at the Universities of California and Potsdam has found that half of the glaciers in the Karakoram range, in the northwestern Himlaya, are in fact advancing and that global warming is not the deciding factor in whether a glacier survives or melts.

Dr Bodo Bookhagen, Dirk Scherler and Manfred Strecker studied 286 glaciers between the Hindu Kush on the Afghan-Pakistan border to Bhutan, taking in six areas.

Their report, published in the journal Nature Geoscience, found the key factor affecting their advance or retreat is the amount of debris – rocks and mud – strewn on their surface, not the general nature of climate change.

Glaciers surrounded by high mountains and covered with more than two centimetres of debris are protected from melting.

Debris-covered glaciers are common in the rugged central Himalaya, but they are almost absent in subdued landscapes on the Tibetan Plateau, where retreat rates are higher.

In contrast, more than 50 per cent of observed glaciers in the Karakoram region in the northwestern Himalaya are advancing or stable.

"Our study shows that there is no uniform response of Himalayan glaciers to climate change and highlights the importance of debris cover for understanding glacier retreat, an effect that has so far been neglected in predictions of future water availability or global sea level," the authors concluded.





Sri Lanka is the only country which spelt out growth strategies and development goals for the next five to ten years. This indicates that Sri Lankans want to achieve set targets from the medium to long term perspective, Central Bank Governor Ajith Nivard Cabral said.

"Sri Lanka is way ahead in achieving vibrant growth, which was at one time considered impossible," Cabraal said at the National Chamber of Commerce of Sri Lanka's Annual General Meeting in Colombo. Asoka Heetigoda was inducted as the new President of the chamber for the year 2011/12.

He said Sri Lanka was moving ahead despite great challenges, proving to the world that we have risen through the crisis caused by external and internal shocks. "When the GSP plus was removed everybody said our garment sector is heading to a disaster but today we have done fairly well, better than we expected," he said.

"Notwithstanding the global financial crisis and turmoil we have shown resilience. Today, our rupee is being appreciated against the US dollar and everybody thought that our exports will be affected but the Central Bank reports indicated that our exports have grown by 15 percent last year," Cabraal said.

Cabraal said that Sri Lanka took 56 years to reach a per capita income of US$ 1000.To double that amount i.e. US$ 2000 it took only five years. Since growth strategies are in place such as new highway projects, airports, including international and domestic and many more other development projects taking place, doubling the per capita income in the next five years is possible, he said.

"Our economy becomes more resilient because we have placed our macro economic fundamentals in place, which did not happen overnight because we took bold decisions to stabilise the economy step by step. This has resulted in reducing the unemployment rate to five percent, and our exchange level has come to a stable position and on top of that political stability and peace in the country positively impacted the economy, he said.

Cabraal called upon the business community to think out of the box, which would give a new dimension to business ventures. "Therefore, if we think out of the box or think big we will achieve something," he added.

Minister of External Affairs Prof G.L Peiris said Sri Lanka's peace and tranquillity and the unprecedented stability could achieve a double digit growth for the country.

He said that drastic reduction in interest rates have given business entities opportunity to raise loans for various business enterprises, which will definitely help the local SME sector which is considered to be the life blood of the economy.

Prof Peiris said the chamber has supported more than 800 SMEs engaged in different industries and businesses and thereby uplifting the socio economic conditions of regions. The new vistas of opportunities that were not there during the past two decades are now opened, he said.

Sri Lanka was placed on the highest place in per capita income in the region and with the dawn of peace has opened a new chapter for the country, he added.

Heetigoda said that as the new president he would focus on skills development, improve trade and investment and productivity development in the SME sector, which is the need of the hour to face future challenges when we compete in the international markets.





LONDON (AP) - Liverpool's hold on Fernando Torres may be slipping Monday with the Spain striker reported to be on the way to Chelsea on the final day of Europe's January transfer window - in what could be English football's most expensive ever transfer.

Torres left Liverpool's training ground Monday and British media widely reported that Chelsea is prepared to pay 50 million pounds ($79.5 million) for the Spain striker.

Liverpool expects to complete the signing of Uruguay forward Luis Suarez from Ajax on Monday and could be one of the busiest clubs in the market. The club has also been linked with Newcastle's Andy Carroll and Bayern Munich's Mario Gomez, apparently as a replacement for Torres.

"We're going to look after ourselves first and foremost," Liverpool manager Kenny Dalglish said. "Is that not the same in any business? If someone's going to go you've got to have a replacement.

"There is as good a chance of us getting someone else in as there is someone going out."

Liverpool turned down Torres' request to leave the team he joined for a club-record 20.3 million pounds (then $40.6 million) from Atletico Madrid in 2007.

Torres, who is contracted until 2013, is one of the most sought-after players in world football despite a disappointing contribution to Spain's World Cup win last year. He scored the winning goal in Spain's 2008 European Championship win over Germany and has struck 81 goals in 142 games for Liverpool.

The biggest transfer between two English clubs was Manchester United's 2002 signing of Rio Ferdinand from Leeds for 29.1 million pounds (then $44.5 million).

Argentina striker Carlos Tevez is widely recognized as the most expensive player in English football. Manchester City has never confirmed the cost of his 2009 transfer, which has since been reported as costing about 47 million pounds.

Liverpool has already been busy.

Suarez passed a medical examination and is on course to complete his euro26.5 million ($36 million) transfer, while Liverpool has allowed defender Paul Konchesky to join second-tier Nottingham Forest on loan. Daniel Ayala has been loaned to Derby by the Reds.

United States midfielder Michael Bradley was undergoing a medical examination with Aston Villa, with the 23-year-old son of U.S. coach Bob Bradley set to join the central England club on loan until the end of the season from Borussia Moenchengladbach.

Villa has already signed Darren Bent, Jean Makoun and on-loan Kyle Walker during the January transfer window.

Tottenham's attempt to sign Sergio Aguero from Atletico Madrid ended when the Argentina star signed a new contract with his Spanish club, while Stoke may let Tuncay Sanli join Wolfsburg after the Turkey forward traveled to Germany for contract negotiations.





Grama Niladharis will be empowered to monitor development activities and curb anti-social and criminal activities in their areas, with the support of the Police, Minister of Public Administration and Home Affairs W. D. J. Seneviratne says.

He said that it would be mandatory for all Grama Niladharis to remain in their offices up to 11.00 am five days a week, except on Wednesdays, when they have to report to the AGA's Office and Sunday would be their day off.

Disciplinary action would be taken against the Grama Niladharis who flouted the government directive, the Minister said.

"These decisions have been taken in keeping with the vision and commitment of the Mahinda Chinthanaya to accelerate the development of the country. The Grama Niladharis found efficient would be recognised by way of promotions to higher grades," Seneviratne said.

He said the educational qualification for future recruits would be passing the GCE Advanced Level examination.





Sri Lanka Under-19 who have dominated the five-match Youth ODI series with two consecutive victories will look for the series triumph when they meet their England counterparts in the third Youth ODI at Colts Ground today.

Sri Lanka Under-19 will go unchanged for today's encounter. Team coach Naveed Navaz said that team management has decided to retain the side that won the second match by a huge 137 runs.

Sri Lanka made one change to the team that won the first Youth ODI bringing in Royal College captain Ramith Rambukwella to replace Trinity College opening batsman Niroshan Dikwella in the second Youth ODI.

Rambukwella clobbered 66 runs in 39 balls after being dropped on eight to add value to his inclusion in the Sri Lanka Under-19 pool. The second Youth ODI saw Sri Lanka reaching a commanding 325 runs in their allotted 50 overs with Shehan Jayasuriya and Dananjaya de Silva also contributing with half-centuries.

With the spinners playing a key role in Sri Lanka's bowling department the coach said that the team will stick to just two pacemen.

Nawaz told The Island yesterday that a series victory in the third encounter is what the team is aiming to achieve today.





HNB small holder agriculture finance innovations showcased at World Bank seminar in Washington

January 31, 2011, 10:40 pm

The success of Hatton National Banks' Small Holder Agriculture finance innovations were showcased at the quarterly Agrifin Seminar organised by the Agrifin Team of Rural Infrastructure, Markets and Finance and Agriculture and Rural Development Department of the World Bank on 24th January 2011 at the World Bank office in Washington DC.

The seminar was chaired by Mark Cackler, Sector Manager of Agriculture and Rural Development Department of the World Bank and was attended by a large number of World Bank professionals who recognised Chandula's presentation as an excellent showcase of a successful small holder agriculture finance model. The presentation was web casted to a number of field level World Bank officials across USA and other parts of the world. The presentation lasted for 45 minutes and the question and answer session went on for another 11⁄2 hours.

The presentation drew a significant amount of interest and attention of many of the participants who commented that it was a great showcase of a successful Sri Lankan model of Small Holder Agriculture Finance by a commercial Bank. A number of innovations, ideas, thoughts and practises done by HNB were greatly highlighted. Among the participants who recognised and commended the presentation are Henry Bagazonzya, Senior Financial Sector Specialist, World Bank, Renate Kloeppinger-Todd, Rural Finance Advisor, World Bank Margie Peters-Fawcett, Knowledge Management Co-ordinator, World Bank and Maria E. Pagura, Senior Program Officer, World Bank.

Henry, who is a Senior Financial Sector Specialist of the World Bank, particularly commented that the presentation was excellent and the ideas could be replicated by other Financial Institutions across the world. Most of the participants were taken up with HNB's corporate partnership, which has created a significant and sustainable finance programme for small holder farmers in Sri Lanka.

The presentation made by Chandula on January 24, at the World Bank Agrifin Seminar would be hosted on the Agrifin Website of the World Bank for the benefit of many who would want to understand a success small holder agriculture finance model.





Two Sri Lankan fishermen, who left Mirissa Fisheries Harbour on January 4, for deep sea fishing have been shot dead by Somali pirates and their bodies thrown to the sea, according to messages received by the owner of the craft.

The two fishermen were accompanied by three others in a multi-day fishing boat named Dharsahana-6. owned by G. D. Priyantha Jayalath, has lodged a complaint with the Weligama Police about the incident. He said the message had been received by the Mirissa Harbour around 4.30 p.m. on Sunday and it was also confirmed by another Negombo based fishing vessel in the Somalia area.

The deceased have been identified as Priyantha Pradeep Kumar (46) and Ajith Priyadharshana Pradeep Kumar (39) both, fathers of three children each.

Priyantha Jayalath said that from the day they left he was in contact with the boat every day at 9.00 a.m. through the communication facilities at the Mirissa Harbour. However, since January 27, he was unable to contact the boat. Another boat Jayamali that left along with the ill fated vessel was contacted and requested to ask the crew to contact the owner. However, on Sunday afternoon he was informed that Somali pirates had shot dead two of the fishermen and thrown their bodies to the sea.

The owner, quoting the skipper of the vessel, Weerasuriya Sudumalli, said that on realising the fishermen were Sri Lankan the Somali pirates had regretted their action saying that both countries had many things in common.

Promising food, fuel and other facilities and release, the pirates had anchored the boat at a Somali harbour, Jayalath said.





The UNP blames the government for not adopting effective measures to prevent Indian fishermen from poaching in Sri Lanka's territorial waters in the North.

UNP National List MP D. M. Swaminathan said that the government had turned a blind eye to repeated calls by northern fisheries societies to thwart Indian fishing fleet crossing the Indo-Lanka maritime boundary.

MP Swaminathan, in a recent statement, which dealt with the situation in the Northern Province, alleged that government had also ignored northern fishermen's call for the provision of 40-foot fishing craft on easy payment terms.

He blamed the Navy for still denying northerners an opportunity to enter two major 'fishing grounds' at Myliddy and Kaddaikadu on the basis of them being security zones.

The MP said that in spite of the relaxation of fishing restrictions in the northern waters, fishermen couldn't exploit the post-war situation for want of larger fishing craft. With the available 21-foot and 28-foot fishing craft, they couldn't operate on the high seas, he said, emphasising the need to take tangible action on the part of the government to upgrade the fishing fleet.

The UNP statement comes in the wake of fresh allegations by some Indian politicians that the Sri Lanka Navy has recently killed two Indian fishermen and wounded several others in separate incidents.

Navy headquarters said that there was absolutely no truth in Indian allegations. Senior government officials told The Island that some Tamil Nadu politicians were trying to make political capital out of alleged attacks on fishermen.

A group of TN politicians tried to blame the massacre of five Indian fishermen and the seizure of fishing trawler 'Sri Krishna' in 2007 by the LTTE on the Sri Lanka Navy.

Former Navy Commander Admiral Thisara Samarasinghe told the Lessons Learnt and Reconciliation Commission (LLRC) last year how the Indian fishing fleet invaded Sri Lankan waters regularly causing immense problems. Admiral Samarasinghe stressed the need to check the movement of Indian fishing craft, while warning that the situation could further deteriorate unless effective measures were adopted. The Admiral also warned that there could e clashes between Indian and Sri Lankan fishermen.

Military sources based in the North told The Island that Jaffna fishermen were angry over the government's failure to prevent regular forays by Indian fishing fleet into Sri Lanka's territorial waters. Sources said that Jaffna fishermen expected the Navy to take measures to discourage the Indians.

During the war, particularly at last stages, the Navy threw a cordon to thwart Indians and went to the extent of detaining about 300 trawlers as part of its strategy to discourage the Indian fishing fleet.

Military sources said that a section of the Indian fishing fleet had collaborated with the LTTE to transfer arms, ammunition and equipment.





"For fear of the newspaper politicians are dull, and of late they are too dull even for the newspaper. – Gilbert Cheston

I refer to your well crafted Editorial of January 29, on the above topic. Deshabandu Karu Jayasuriya, the deputy leader of the UNP has some worthy and sincere advice for the Commissioner of Elections Dayananda de Silva, on the nominations day, when he appealed to the commissioner to be fair and just at the local government polls and "Retire with dignity".

Karu J, as the Mayor of Colombo, idled for three years; this city father, did not 'retire with dignity' after he failed miserably to do anything worthwhile. Over a century -old infrastructure and systems were left untouched. He failed to introduce an efficient garbage disposal system let alone a project to beautify the city.

The gentlemen politician Karu J, having failed to persuade his leader Ranil Wickremesinghe, who had brought him to politics, to 'retire with dignity', and hand over the reins to him, disgruntled and impatient, instead of 'retiring with dignity' bolted to the rival camp together with a group of seventeen senior dissidents, inflicting the worst ever damage on the Grand Old Party in its history and crippled it, to accept a cabinet portfolio in the Rajapaksa government.

Receiving shoddy treatment in that camp, he did not ' retire with dignity', from politics, but deserted the 'golayas' and did a 'U' -turn , and returned to the UNP's fold depriving that up and coming young man who deserved that position.

At the last general elections, leading the party at Gampaha, the 'matured politician' Karu J, introduced a young Teledrama actress, a complete political novice, who pushed him to the third or fourth position in terms of preferential votes. Did Karu J 'retire with dignity'? He remained there issuing controversial press statements somewhat funny and of traitorous nature and later blaming the scribes for distortion, in a desperate bid to maintain his fast eroding popularity and possible loss of position, due to the ongoing intra-party squabbling.

It is advisable that Karu J stops inviting representatives from both factions of the beleaguered party to secret talks with selfish motives creating further splits. Karu J the 'honest politician' has just one option: he may advise his mentor and leader to "Retire with dignity", and he himself follow suit for the benefit of the party, the Opposition and the country as a whole.

They say, "All political lives, unless they are cut off mid-stream at a happy juncture, end in failure".





Media Minister Keheliya Rambukkwella on Monday (31) said that those, who had carried out the latest attack on the media wanted to embarrass the government.

The Minister said that the attackers struck shortly after the close of nominations for the forthcoming Local Government elections, while a section of the international community was targeting the government on the 'human rights' front.

The Minister said that President Mahinda Rajapaksa had directed police headquarters to initiate an immediate inquiry. He emphasized that the government had allowed several websites to operate and there was absolutely no need on the part of the administration to target them.





Poetry is the spiritual excitement of a rhythmic voyage of self-discovery among the magic islands of form and name in these inner and outer worlds. – Sri Aurobindo

In his poem, "Lines on Ireland", composed in 1896, Sri Aurobindo exclaims at the fall of Ireland: How changed, how fallen from her ancient spirit!/ She that was Ireland, Ireland now no more,/ In beggar's weeds behold at England's door ..."

The seeds of fervent nationalism or patriotism, which were to blossom over the coming decades, could be traced to his poem on Ireland. Sri Aurobindo's prescription for Irish redemption, was not a military strategy but a return to its roots, self-introspection, deeper spiritual communion, revival of its past glory and distinctive cultural identity. For the subjugation and subservience of Ireland, he doesn't accuse the alien power but blames the enslaved state:

But thou to thine own self disloyal, hast/ Renounced the help divine, turning thy past/ To idle legends and fierce tales of blood,/ Mere violent wrath with no proposed good. The poet's attack culminates in the line which emphatically asserts: How fallen art thou being ruled by these!

His personal frustration is a spontaneous condemnation of a shameless surrender to foreign domination. As Shyam Kumari rightly observes in the critical essay "The Spirit of Indian Nationalism in Sri Aurobindo's Early Poems": "It is a sweet journey to follow in the footsteps of Sri Aurobindo's early poetry and trace the first dawn of the Indian spirit."

Sri Aurobindo's entrapment in an alien culture did not impede his quest for search of the traditional roots of Indian heritage. His stress was on spiritual regeneration and rediscovery of the cultural roots for an emphatic assertion of nationalist identity.

Sri Aurobindo was influenced by Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay, who fused spirituality with nationalism in Anandamath. He advocated a confrontational path for the sanyasis as their means of liberation or nirvana.

Patriotism or nationalism is not alienated from spirituality. Cultural self-discovery, especially the rekindling of inherent tradition and heritage, has a sacramental dimension. The sanctity of the latter has to be preserved against all odds. This is at the root of the spiritual resilience of a nation against external subjugation. It is this spiritual empathy that Sri Aurobindo celebrated when he described the novelist in his poem entitled "Bankim Chandra Chatterji" as "The sweetest voice that ever spoke in prose." In his obituary lyric "Saraswati with the Lotus", he evokes the muse of learning and bemoans the sad demise of the author:

Thy tears fall fast, O Mother, on its bloom,/ O white-armed mother, like honey fall thy tears;/ Yet even their sweetness can no more relume/ The golden light, the fragrance heaven rears,/ The fragrance and the light for ever shed/ Upon his lips immortal who is dead.

Spiritual heritage and individuality are intrinsic to national identity. Sri Aurobindo started from this point and made spirituality and nationalism concomitant like a glorious and invincible union of the Ganga and Jamuna, thereby upholding the sacred past and the "mighty godhead of Sanatana Dharma".

It is this spirit that is echoed in the celebration of the sacrifice of the Irish nationalist, Charles Stewart Parnell (1891): O pale and guiding light.../ Thou too wert then a child of tragic earth,/ Since vainly filled the luminous doom of birth.

Sri Aurobindo's identification with Parnell and correlation of India with Ireland is distinctly clear in the following lines:

Deliverer lately hailed, since by our lords/ Most feared, most hated, hated because feared,/ Who smot'st them with an edge surpassing swords!

These early poems testify that Sri Aurobindo was searching for an apt metaphor for his own Mother India. The general refrain in most of these lyrics is a clarion call to regain the lost pride and glory, which would pave the path for liberation from alien rule.

Behind the guise of Ireland, Sri Aurobindo revealed his concern for his own country. The mask however lies uncovered, though in a different context altogether, in the poem "Night by the Sea":

In thy bosom's snow white walls ... Shut my heart up; keep it closed/ Like a rose of Indian grain ..." Having resurrected the faith in his roots he became acutely conscious of how he "had wronged" his "youth and nobler powers" by "weak attempts, small failures, wasted hours". The call for homeland and its freedom is distinct and resonant.

CR Das once described Sri Aurobindo as "the poet of patriotism, as the prophet of nationalism and the lover of humanity". Among the poems that express his sense of nationalism and quest for liberty, the most notable is "Baji Prabhu", a long narrative poem that eulogises the fortitude and valour of the Maratha warrior against the Mughals.

Inflicted. And from time to time the gaze/ Of Baji sought the ever-sinking sun./ Men fixed their eyes on him and in his firm/ Expression lived. So the slow minutes passed.

The poem marks a remarkable blend of form and content. Sri Aurobindo's "Vadula", first published under the title "The Mother to her Son", also explores the theme of valour and courage. The following extract echoes the clarion call of Mother India to her children:

Shrink not from a noble action, stoop not to unworthy deed!/ Vile are they who stoop, they gain not Heaven's doors, nor here succeed ~ When thou winnest difficult victory from the clutch of fearful strife, I shall know thou art my offspring and shall love my son indeed.

The notion of the Nation as Mother seemed a natural continuation of Swami Vivekananda's evocation of the goddess in the poem "Kali the Mother". Written in Kashmir in 1898, the poem was composed during his pilgrimage to Kshir Bhavani. Sister Nivedita, who accompanied Swami Vivekananda on that pilgrimage, has observed:

His brain was teeming with thoughts, he said one day, and his fingers would not rest till they were written down. It was that same evening that he came back to our house-boat from some expedition, and found waiting for us, where he had called and left them, his manuscript lines on Kali the Mother. Writing in a fever of inspiration, he had fallen on the floor, when he had finished ~ as we learnt afterwards ~ exhausted with his own intensity.

In the poem, Swami Vivekananda glorifies Kali as an embodiment of power and glory. The evocation of divine Shakti is an indirect evocation of the energies of the universe to liberate the human spirit from its ignorant entrapment. The poet makes a fervent plea in this context: Come, O Mother, come!"

In a similarly co-related poem, "A Hymn to the Divine Mother", Swami Vivekananda's personal prayer merges with the universal cry for freedom:

Manifestations of Her glory show/ In power of immeasurable might,/ Throughout the universe, powers that swell/ The sea of birth and death, forces that change/ And break up the Unchanged and changed again./ Lo! Where shall we seek refuge, save in Her?

Both Swami Vivekananda and Sri Aurobindo advocated a massive upheaval for the spiritual resurgence of the country and Shiva serves as a triumphant symbol of such a spiritual revival.

(ANN/The Statesman)

(To be concluded)

The writer is on the faculty of the Department of English, St Xavier's College, Kolkata





The Department of Railways is planning to introduce low cost electric trains for goods and passenger transport by the end of 2013.

The Railway Department's Director of Planning Wijaya Samarasinghe said "the feasibility study on introducing the electric train service is being carried out by a team of experts. Initially the train service will be launched between Veyangoda and Kalutara and thereafter it will gradually be introduced to the other parts of the country."

The power will be mainly supplied by the Ceylon Electricity Board and in addition, two power stations, close to Panadura and Ragama, will be built to provide electricity to those trains.

"Through the introduction of these trains the Railways Department plans to cover the high costs incurred and also introduce an environmental friendly, speedy and efficient transport service to the country where the emission will be minimized," Samarasinghe said.

A high level discussion was held in this connection in Colombo recently with the participation of Transport Minister Kumara Welgama, Power and Energy Minister Patali Champika Ranawaka, Railway Department authorities, engineers of the Moratuwa University Engineering Faculty and the CEB authorities.

The latest electronic signal system, to minimize the frequent signal failures, would be installed once the trains are introduced in the country, he said.

Initially, five electric trains will be in service. Later, the Department of Railways has planned to convert diesel trains into electric ones. The project is to be carried out as an internationally funded venture and already few countries, including China, have shown interest in investing in this, Samarasinghe said.





GOSL Statement in response to comments made during an "Exchange of Views on Human Rights in Sri Lanka in the post-conflict period" at the Meeting of the European Parliament's Sub-committee on Human Rights on 6 December 2010

The Government of Sri Lanka (GoSL) welcomes this opportunity to respond to the number of unsubstantiated allegations made of it during the over one hour long "Exchange of Views on Human Rights of Sri Lanka in the Post, conflict period" that took place at the meeting of the European Parliament's Sub-committee on Hunman Rights on 06 December, 2010.

While we reiterate our strong protest against the refusal of the Chair at the time of the above discussion to permit Sri Lanka's Ambassador a 'right of reply', following a protest made by the Ambassador, we appreciate the step taken by Ms. Heide Hatuala. Chair of the sub-committee through her letter dated 16 December 2010, to correct this procedural anomaly and enable GoSL to share its views denied to it previously, with the assurance that it would be distributed to the members of the sub-committee. We are also thankful to the 'Friends of Sri Lanka' group of the European Parliament, Coordinators of the Human Rights Sub-Committee and officials of the Parliament cutting across political group and country lines, for supporting Sri Lanka's demand for a 'Right of Reply'.

While the panelists Prof. Francois Howtart (Chairman) and Dr. Jude Lal Fernando (Coordinator) of the 'Permanent People's Tribunal' based in Ireland had nothing good to say about Sri Lanka, in an otherwise lengthy list of accusations against Sri Lanka, Mr. Alen Keenan, Sri Lanka Project Director of the International Crisis Group (ICE) grudgingly conceded three important points:

With respect to resettlement he noted that, "of the nearly 300,00 people displaced from their comes by the last two years of fighting the large majority have lefts the military run camps in which they were locked for months";

With respect to ex-combatants he noted that, "of the estimated 12,000 people who surrendered or were detained at the end of the war on suspicion of involvement with /he LTTE, many, perhaps most, have now being released";

He also noted that, "since the end of the war and the active counter insurgency campaign, there have been much fewer reports of extra-judicial killings and enforce disappearances".

One would have expected that these vast strides by Sri Lanka in a little over a year alone, would have called for some commendation by the Human Rights Sub-Committee for a job well done. This is particularly so in the context that at the last hearing of this committee relating to Sri Lanka held on 01 October 2009, the Communications Director of the 1CG Mr. Andrew Suoehlein had claimed that GoSL "has been imprisoning without charge over a quarter of a million ethnic Tamils displaced by the conflict", that "the state has locked them in internment camps in the North of the country", that "all talk of release dates and resettlement schedules is nonsense" suggesting that they would be held indefinitely, and urged that "no donors should funds any substantial development work until there is a clear plan".

The 15 months that have passed since, has made abundantly clear that the lCG, as its other fellow travellers, have been wrong in both its assessment, as well as its prescription for addressing the massive challenge the Government of President Mahinda Rajapaksa faced in the aftermath of having defeated the ruthless terrorist organisation the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Elam (LATE) which had plagued Sri Lanka for over 30 years. On that occasion Sri Lanka asked that "displaced persons in Sri Lanka be not used as a political tool" and assured that "we will ensure that they get back to their homes in safety, not because anybody tells us to do so, but because we want them to do so". The GoSL has kept this pledge and in less than 18 months since the end of the conflict has made tangible progress in re-settling the IDPs, reintegrating ex-combatants and also set in motion an effective program of action for reconciliation between communities and development of previously terrorist affected areas.

Internally Displaced People (IDPs)

On IDPs, we are all aware that in the immediate aftermath of the defeating of terrorism in May 2009, as at 17 June 2009, a total of 295,136 IDPs were located in 37 welfare villages in the 04 districts in the North, with the bulk of them in one single location – the Menik Farm Welfare village complex in Vavuniya.

Much of the success of Sri Lanka's restoration of normalcy to the lives of the IDPs is owed to the systematic manner in which GoSL set about the task of mine clearance, an area in which very little foreign support was forthcoming at the time. Soon after phase I of the demining was completed, in September 2009, the GoSL launched an accelerated programme to return internally displaced persons (IDPs) to their places of origin in the North. The progress made in this resettlement process has been aptly described by the UN's Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) in its Joint Humanitarian Update report No. 29 of October – November 2010 "as at 02 December, some 21,000 IDPS were still in Menik Farm" and "most of the remaining IDPs originate from heavily mine contaminated areas where wine action operations are still on-going". As at the end of December 2010, these figures have changed even further and according to the latest reports by the Commissioner General Rehabilitation of the Ministry of Rehabilitation and Prison Reforms, only 19,840 IDPs remain in 3 welfare villages functioning in Vavuniya and one of those villages (Arunachalam Relief Village) is scheduled to be closed in January 2011. The remaining IDPs will be resettled in their places of origin in due course as the mine clearance is completed. Similarly, those who are with host families are also now returning to their places of origin. The MOCHA Joint Humanitarian Update of October- November 2010 also indicates "In October, 9,816 persons returned to their areas of origin, mostly 1DPs from the host families" which exemplifies that their return is a continuous process.

As for all those who are returning to their places of origin, considerable effort by GoSL has gone into facilitating restoration of normalcy to their lives with the assistance of friendly countries, regional groupings, the UN and local and foreign NGOs. The returnees receive a 'package of support' which includes six months dry rations, shelter grant of Rs. 25,000 non food relief items (NRFI), roofing sheets (12 nos.), cement (8 bags per family) etc. Moreover, assistance is given to rebuild the houses of these returnees by security personal in their areas in both man power and materiel. The Indian Government has extended supports in rebuilding houses and has committed to build 50,000 houses in the North. The pilot housing project of 1,000 houses at Ariyalai funded by the Indian Government was handed over to the IDPs in November 2010. The Australian Government has provided 07 Million Eros for the UN-Habitat program for similar housing projects in the North of Sri Lanka.

In order to establish their livelihoods agricultural tool kits, lands preparation cost of Rs. 4000 per acre, provision of seed paddy 2 bushels per acre per family for 2 acres and provision of fertiliser is also provided. 2 acres of land has been also given to those who do not own land for agricultural purposes. Tractors are also donated to community groups. Key irrigation tanks have been restored and waterways have been rebuilt to distribute water. During them last season, most of the farmers were able to cultivate their lands and it is expected that the paddy cultivation will be doubled during the next season. For the fishing community, new boats have been distributed, and contrary to what the ICE says, the fishing restrictions have been completely lifted.

In order to direct more economic opportunities to the returnees, the GOAL has undertaken a majors development programme to expand access to the North. Under this programme, the main roads have been repaired and upgraded. Restoration work of the Jaffna-Colombo railway line which was completely destroyed during the conflict has also commenced. In order to meet the demand for power, it is proposed to construct a 500 MW Thermal Power Plant at Trincomalee in Eastern Sri Lanka. Telecommunication facilities have been expanded (both fixed Line and mobile) and all the communication networks of all the districts in the North have been restored.

The GoSL has also made provisions for the sociocultural needs of the returnees. Being predominantly a Hindu area, the key Hindu Cavils which were destroyed have been reconstructed. Ally the base hospitals are now functioning and the GoSL has appointed afresh batch of doctors and nurses to serve in these hospitals. Several NGOs including UNICEF are also involved in providing psychological support programmes is hospitals and schools. Many of the schools which had been previously closed are now functioning,

Also contrary to what ICG says, there are 89 NGOs/INGOs and UN organisation that have access to the North. So too does ECHO. These organisations are involved in various activities ranging from providing shelter, to psychological support programmes. Some of these NGOs are now moving out as they have completed their projects involving the IDPs or have run out of funds.

The Presidential Task Force (PTF) on Northern Development is responsible for coordinating the activities of the Government and NGO/INGOs in resettlement, rehabilitation and development activities. The GoSL appointed this body in order not to repeat the mistakes made in the aftermath of the tsunami, as most of the tsunami development work did not yield the desired results. The decision making process which centres in the PTF has achieved positive results as could he seen in the resettlement and development in areas in the North.

Also contrary to what the ICE says, while GoSL has deployed the military in the North mainly to provide security to the people in the areas, they area also involved in the rebuilding process such as rebuilding roads, bridges, schools etc. and also taking part in distributing resources within the area such as food and also providing transport It must also be noted that in the areas of lesser sensitivity and where the Police and the local authorities are fully operational and there is a robust distribution systems in place, there is no military presence.





In reply to De Mazenod College 125 runs, St. Sebastian's College were 52 for four wickets when rain forced an early end to their Inter School Under-19 cricket encounter which started at Kandana yesterday.

Deciding to field first St. Sebastian's restricted the home team to 125 runs as spinner Anuk de Alwis picked up five wickets for 29 runs.

In their essay St. Sebastian's were 52 for four wickets at close with off-spinner Madushan Fernando picking up three wickets.





When Singapore-based advertising trade publication, AdAsia, decided to move away from print production and go digital, it looked for a partner who could offer full agency services for advertisers via the Internet.

The result was an agreement signed in January between AdAsia Media Pte Ltd and Colombo-based Triadhot.com, a subsidiary of Triad, the largest local agency in Sri Lanka.

The link between the two companies came about at a press conference in Singapore's famous Raffles Hotel.

Publisher and Editor of AdAsia, Allein Moore, had for some time been planning to move away from a paper and ink production after ten years of building up the magazine. He felt that the Internet had changed communications and publishing for ever and that, digitally, he could do a lot more. Moore says that with the restriction on the number of pages due to print production costs and shipping expenses holding back a wider distribution, it seemed the digital route offered more opportunities to grow and increase the content.

"I met the team from Triadhot.com when they decided boldly to launch their digital agency in Singapore instead of on their home turf. I was impressed by their enthusiasm and the effort they had put into to develop new systems to make this idea work", said Moore. "Ï knew the reputation of the Triad because of its creative wins in the Effies (effectiveness awards), the Singapore Outdoor Awards as well as the local Chillies show. Clients and brands operate in a multi-national environment and I was impressed by the fact Triad had not followed the traditional agency route of opening offices here, there and everywhere but adopted a business model more in tune with today's world.

He went back and wrote up the story in his publication but the Sri Lankan agency and its idea stuck in his mind. As he began to develop his new digital publication and consider the content, he remembered Triadhot.com and decided a "virtual" agency would be a valuable service to offer readers, many of whom are marketing directors in large and small companies.

"Ï floated the idea to the team in Sri Lanka and received an immediate positive response to their inclusion on the new site," explained Moore, "We swiftly moved on from that point to sign this partnership agreement. A special page was developed in Sri Lanka and incorporated into the development of the new AdAsia home site.

For its part, Triadhot.com, saw this partnership as an opportunity to make a greater impact on the world- wide marketing community. Sarva Ameresekere, COO, Triadhot.com said "this partnership not only instantly widens our global footprint but also recognizes our ability to compete in the in the global playing field as the only Sri Lankan multi-national agency".

Clients will, by next month and via the AdAsia site (www.adasiaonline.com), access a full service agency, brief the team and track the progress of the project from start to finish. Being a virtual agency, Triadhot.com is not restricted to its own creative and marketing experts but can call on the right people from markets around the world. The fees will be appropriate to the job so even more modest companies can feel comfortable. The lack of offices and reduction in the need for travel also helps keep costs down.

"National borders are being swept away in the communications business and our move reflects this. A Sri Lankan agency and a Singapore publisher are now plugged in - connecting themselves and the global marketing community," says Allein Moore.









Heavy rains that prevailed when the West Indies were here in November and December returned as the first of the three match ODI series between the countries was washed off here at the Sinhalese Sports Club grounds yesterday. Inclement weather abandoned the five match ODI series between the teams in December and the warm up for the teams ahead of the World Cup was hit by rain again as Sri Lanka were not able begin their run chase after the West Indies complied 245 for five in 50 overs.

West Indies won the toss and elected to bat first and after Chris Gayle was dismissed cheaply for four runs, Adrian Barath hit his maiden ODI century, helping the West Indies to consolidate.

The 20-year-old Trinidadian had just a solitary half-century prior to his knock yesterday in ODIs and during a 165 run stand with former captain Ramnaresh Sarwan, reached three figures for the first time.

Mahela Jayawardene missed a difficult chance at first slip with the batsman on 54 off the bowling of Ajantha Mendis and he reached three figures by crashing Mendis through extra cover for four.

Sarwan had been dropped from the side when West Indies arrived in Sri Lanka for the last series and on his return to international cricket, he looked solid posting his 34th ODI half-century.

When the pair were batting, West Indies looked set to post a 280 plus total, but Lasith Malinga removed both batsmen in the space of three deliveries to make things even.

Barath made 112 in 129 balls, with eight fours and two sixes, while Sarwan made 75 in 100 deliveries with four fours and a six.









Hatchlings killed as domestic traders cannot compete with Indian imports

January 31, 2011, 12:00 pm

By Lal Gunesekera

Eight to 10 percent of the poultry industry are hesitant from purchasing day-old chicks from the hatcheries who complain of an excess of chicks and have even started destroying them or culling the senior batches.

The President of the Poultry Producers Association Dr. D. D. Wanasinghe told The Island Financial Review that most of the small scale farmers are in dire straits due to the import of chicken from India and are temporarily moving out of the market as they do not possess sufficient freezers to stock their chicken, and for this reason the price of a kilo of chicken in Ja-Ela, Kandana and Wattala areas have dropped to between Rs. 300 to Rs. 310. He said that the big time producers stock their chicken in freezers, which could be stored for about two months.

Dr. Wanasinghe said that there was plenty of locally produced chicken in the market at the controlled price of Rs. 350 (skinless) and there is about an estimated 200,000 kg in stock at the moment. He said that production has also shown a marginal increase in production and that there was absolutely no necessity for any imports of chicken from India.

He said that the Indian chicken was 'not moving' at Lanka Sathosa outlets as they are heavier in weight (more than 1 1⁄2 kg) than the local chicken which weighs about 1 kg 200 grams with consumers preferring to purchase the local chicken.

Dr. Wanasinghe also said that a kilo of chicken in India is Rs. 47 (Rs. 110 Sri Lankan), while an egg costs Rs. 2.86 (Rs. 7 Sri Lankan). India employs three million persons in the industry and produces 2.3 million tons of chicken annually, while 118,000 tons are produced in Sri Lanka each year.

Where the Indian eggs were concerned, Dr. Wanasinghe said that they were small in size and weighs about 50 grams though sold at Rs. 12, while the eggs produced in Sri Lanka weighs more than 55 grams though costing anything between Rs. 15 to Rs. 17 with the consumer getting more nutritional value.

A major egg distributor who wished to remain anonymous said that the imports of eggs and chicken were paralyzing the local poultry industry. He too commented that prices of these two commodities always increased during December for Christmas and again in April for the Sinhala and Hindu New Year and also during the Ramazan festival.

He told The Island Financial Review that millions are involved in the industry and felt let down by the government, who should encourage and not discourage the local poultry industry. He blamed the import of 150,000 day old chicks from England and sold at Rs. 210 per chick. He said: When it was in demand it was sold for Rs. 70, but now increased to Rs. 210.

He said that there was even a ban on Indian poultry products by Oman, Bhutan, Saudi Arabia and Qatar due to avian flue two years ago, but lifted now. This was mostly in the eastern part of India who are now setting their sights on Sri Lanka with egg prices escalating.





CALCUTTA, India (AP) - The Indian cricket board has nominated Bangalore's Chinnaswamy Stadium as a replacement venue for the World Cup match between India and England on Feb. 27 that was originally to be played at Calcutta's Eden Gardens.

The Eden Gardens was last week ruled out as a venue for the match because of delays in construction work at the stadium. The Board of Control for Cricket in India was asked to suggest an alternate venue for the group B match.

BCCI secretary Narainswamy Srinivasan said in a statement Monday that "the BCCI has recommended Bangalore as the alternate venue."

The Eden Gardens is also scheduled to host three other matches - South Africa vs. Ireland on March 15, Netherlands vs. Ireland on March 18 and Zimbabwe vs. Kenya on March 20.

An ICC inspection team is expected to make another visit to Eden Gardens next week before it decides whether it will be able to host the remaining three matches.

"The first match may not take place there but the rest of the three matches could have a chance if the requirements are fulfilled," ICC president Sharad Pawar said in New Delhi on Sunday.

"We have written to BCCI regarding this. I spoke to BCCI president Shashank Manohar to get the stadium ready so that other matches are staged there," he said.





Friendships are often shallow and self-serving but Janaka Bogollagama was the proven exception to the rule.

I met Janaka and his devoted wife Sunetra in 1988 and have had the pleasure of a bond that has transcended our common devotion to the UNP. I soon realized the level of integrity with which he perused his life, be it his considerable business interests or in his personal life. Janaka is a true son of Kurunagala and his concern for the people of the area was legendary.

Janaka was always grateful to his alma mater, Ananda College, for the solid foundation upon which he built his guiding principles. He was a keen sportsmen and his particular passion was tennis, a sport at which he excelled and made him the Public Schools champion at the time. On completion of his studies he stared a career in planting before embarking on founding a very successful real estate company. With him, integrity was never negotiable and this commitment was embedded into every transaction he participated in. 'Service with absolute trust' was his motto – a motto that he made an integral part of every decision he took.

I am personally aware of his philanthropy – be it land for soldiers who were disabled in defending his beloved country or in the form of scholarships to disadvantaged students with potential to pursue their university education. His commitment to Buddhism was paramount and the temples of the North West of the country benefited from his generosity.

Apart from his business and sports, his other interest was politics. I know that his involvement in this sphere was a selfless one – and one based on a genuine interest of Sri Lanka. His commitment to his beloved United National Party was unconditional – serving the leadership with loyalty and unwavering dedication. No sacrifice was too large for the Party and his personal contribution, both in individual efforts and as a team leader made him a trusted and integral part of the UNP.

I had the fortune of his company and that of his supportive and dynamic wife, Sunetra when they visited Kuala Lumpur during my tenure as High Commissioner in Malaysia. Here again, his interest was in how the progress of that country could benefit ours. I also recall our visit together to the Jaffna peninsula, where I experienced at first hand his genuine concern for the people of the areas and for the armed forces personnel carrying on duties under very trying circumstances. He was there again for the people after the devastating Tsunami, helping those affected with no regard to ethnicity.

His genuine warmth and sincerity made him standout and this sentiment is shared by all who had the good fortune to know him. He treasured his beloved wife and his two daughters above all – he was the ultimate family man.





Business Law is a developing area in the Asian Pacific region, which needs to be strengthened in Sri Lanka when pursuing a high economic growth and also to attract foreign direct investments into the country, Former Attorney General and the President of the Bar Association of Sri Lanka (BASL) Shilby Aziz said.

"Sri Lanka heading for development and investors, entrepreneurs and government officials who are involved in international trade and commerce would immensely benefit if we have a well developed business law in the country" Aziz said at a media conference.

He said in order to facilitate and strengthen the business laws in the country they are planning to establish new commercial courts and also arbitration centers in the country. At present they are now in the process of setting up 65 new court houses including commercial courts throughout the country, he said.

He also said that a new arbitration center will shortly be established in Sri Lanka, which would be similar to Singapore and Malaysian system, which would be functioned like an alternative dispute resolution centre especially for commercial cases.

Aziz also said the BASL in with LAWASIA organize the LAWASIA Business Law Conference in Sri Lanka to develop areas of the law in the Asian Pacific Region including Sri Lanka and 400 local participants comprising senior and junior members of the Bar, judges, investors, entrepreneurs and government officials who are involved in international trade and commerce locally will be benefited from the said conference.

LAWASIA Conference will be held from March 12 -13 at Hilton Colombo with the assistance of the government agencies including BOI and Sri Lanka Tourism.

LAWASIA is a professional association of representatives of bar council, law associations, individual lawyers, law firms and corporations principally from the Asia Pacific region This facilitates its members participation in the most dynamic economic region in the world.









Australian Open men's singles winner Novak Djokovic has achieved much success throughout his tennis career, but at times it seems it's been hard to take him too seriously, even though he has serious talent.

It's been unfortunate that most of his career so far has been played in the shadow of arguably two of the greatest ever male players, Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal.

However, you get the impression the talented 23-year-old might be about to shake himself free of that shadow and start to have a real impact on the grand slam tournaments over the next few years.

When he won his first Australian Open in 2008, it looked like his time to take it up to and maybe usurp Nadal and Federer had come.

But it was something of a false dawn as he made just one other grand slam final after his 2008 triumph, at last year's US Open.

He wasn't ready and his game was full of inconsistencies and contradictions at times, although his sublime talent couldn't be faulted.

It appears now a more mature Djokovic has arrived and his days as the perennial and fun-loving joker are fast disappearing.

He was outstanding at the Australian Open this year and deserved to win the tournament as he was the best player.

There's no doubt Nadal is a better performer than Djokovic, but injury and illness stopped him from producing his optimum, while Federer has lost to Djokovic in his last two grand slam semi-final appearances.

Last Thursday night he played well in patches but Djokovic was much better, and you get the impression now in the big matches he can beat Federer more often than not.

There's no denying that Djokovic will struggle to win the French Open as a fit Nadal could win that for the next decade, but he has a good chance of leading the way on hardcourts and even having an influence at Wimbledon.

It's been an incredible domination in recent years of men's tennis by Nadal and Federer, but all great things have to come to an end and it seems it's the Joker's turn.

Although I think with the way Djokovic played in Melbourne over the past fortnight especially in the semi and the final, he is fast becoming the ace in the pack.





He said SLMC Leader Minister of Justice Rauff Hakeem was waiting until the Commissioner of Elections Dayananda Dissanayake officially informed the Party of the rejections to file action in the Supreme Court.

He said the SLMC had the highest number of candidates, 207, in the Mahanuwara district followed by 91 in Ampara, 83 in Kurunegala, 82 in Anuradhapura, 81 in Badulla, 63 in Kaluthara and the balance in small numbers in the other districts.





Arrangements have been made by the Buddhist Association of the Sirimavo Bandaranaike Balika Maha Vidyalaya, Colombo to hold an all night pirith ceremony tonight to mark the 38th anniversary of the school.

The ceremony would commence at 8.30 pm at the school and there would be an alms giving for the Maha Sangha the following day, the organizers said.

The Principal and the organising committee invite all students, past pupils and well wishers to attend the anniversary celebrations.





The second round of Bi-Partisan talks, between the government and the Tamil National Alliance (TNA), towards finding a permanent solution that would be acceptable to all parties, has been scheduled to take place at the Presidential Secretariat on Thursday February 3, commencing at 2.00 p.m.

TNA Parliamentarian M .A. Sumanthiran said yesterday that it was decided, during the inaugural round of Bi-Partisan talks, held in the Committee Rooms of Parliament on January 10, that the committee would meet once a fortnight.

Meanwhile governmental sources said that the high level committee appointed by President Mahinda Rajapaksa would give utmost priority towards finding a solution that would be acceptable to all parties.

Sumanthiran said that though the TNA delegation was committed to giving priority to finding a solution to resolve the longstanding Tamil national problem, it hoped to raise the immediate grievances of the Internally Displaced Persons during their first session next Thursday.

The government delegation comprises of former Prime Minister Ratnasiri Wickremanayake, Leader of House Minister Nimal Siripala De Silva, Minister of External Affairs Prof G. L. Pieris with Presidential Advisor on International Affairs Sajin Vaas Gunawardena, as the Secretary to the Committee.

The Tamil National Alliance (TNA) delegation in the absence of Leader MP R. Sampanthan, still recovering in a private Hospital in New Delhi, following a heart ailment, would comprise Presidents Counsel K. Kanag Isvaran, ITAK General Secretary MP Mavai Senathirajah, TNA Spokesperson MP Suresh Premachandran and MP M. A. Sumanthiran.





Zahira College Colombo beat Hameed-Al-Husseinie College 2-0 in the grand final of the 4th All Island Inter School Invitational Football Tournament to clinch the Best Deal Trophy at the Sugathadasa Stadium on Sunday.

Forward Ahmed Shazny scored the two goals either side of the lemons for Zahira to regain the trophy after a lapse of one year.

Zahira College were the winners of the first and the second editions of the tournament before they were beaten in the finals by St. Benedict's College last year. For Hameed-Al-Husseinie College it was their maiden final experience.

Zahirians were in attacking mood from the kick off (at 5.30 pm) but were disappointed when two scoring opportunities went awry in the 28th and the 34th minute. However, forward Ahmed Shazny managed to boot the first goal just seconds before the lemons for Zahira to take a 1-0 lead.

The second half, which was played under flood lights saw Hameed-Al-Husseinie playing under pressure. They lost two goal scoring opportunities before Ahmed Shazny sprang in to action again to extend the lead for Zahira with a 46th minute goal.

Shazny was adjudged the player of the final. He was also the highest goal scorer of the tournament with eight goals. T. Irshad of Hameed-Al-Husseinie College won the award for the best player of the tournament, while his teammate Randika Perera took away the prize for the most stylish player. Arshad Madarkhan of Zahira College was adjudged the best goalkeeper.









Sri Lanka's central bank has spent about 11 billion rupees last year to sterilize excess liquidity generated mainly from external sources, and existing excess liquidity is not a threat at the moment, officials said.

"At the moment the money is with the banks and we are absorbing it daily," Central Bank Governor Nivard Cabraal said.

A pegged exchange rate central bank generates rupees mainly by the purchase of inflowing dollars when it keeps a rate with an anchor currency fixed.

Inflows are attracted when the interest rate in a pegged exchange rate area is higher than that of the anchor currency country, helping build up foreign reserves.

Unless rupees are printed by purchasing Treasury bills to finance budget deficits, such a central bank can avoid foreign exchange shortages and high levels of inflation easily.

But sterilizing liquidity generated from even current transactions can push up foreign reserves which yield low and increase the monetary cost of sterilization.

A large stock of foreign reserves, significantly higher than the local monetary base, can make seigniorage losses for a central bank until the interest rate differential narrows. By December Sri Lanka had foreign reserves of 6.6 billion rupees, according to Central Bank data.

Cabraal said the cost of sterilizing rupee liquidity was about 11 billion rupees last year. By January excess rupee reserves in the banking system, deposited daily at the Central Bank was 125 billion rupees.

Cabraal said several other central banks were also facing the same issue and Sri Lanka was not alone.

The US Federal Reserve has record levels of excess reserves which are about half the monetary base. In Sri Lanka it is about one-third. The Federal Reserve has come under fire for firing a fresh global commodity bubble by its lax policies pushing global food prices in particular to record highs amid a weakening dollar.

K D Ranasinghe, director of economic research at the Central Bank said though the monetary authority was concerned about excess liquidity it was not a big threat at the moment.

In November private sector credit growth was 32.1 percent from a year earlier. But he said broad money defined as M2b was still growing slower than 15 percent, allowing the central bank to make the last interest rate cut.

The central bank's repo rate at which excess liquidity is drained is now about 7.00 percent, which is the active rate amid excess reserves while the rate at which liquidity is added or the reverse repo rate is 8.5 percent.

Sri Lanka's inflation was 6.9 percent in December, almost the same as the repo rate





Revellers could be forced to pay hundreds of pounds to hire "traffic management companies" if they want to stage traditional street parties in celebration of Prince William's marriage to Kate Middleton.

Legislation introduced by Labour seven years ago prevents locals from blocking through roads using home-made signs and says party organisers must use professionals, say local authority officials.

Some councils are waiving road closure charges for Royal Wedding street parties on Friday April 29 but say they have no power to by-pass Government legislation about traffic management on through roads.

Cambridgeshire County Council is one local authority which says it will not charge to close roads for royal wedding street parties.

But a nine-page online council form organisers are asked to fill in says that if parties are being held on through roads, "unqualified members of the public will not be allowed to carry out road closures on the highway (or) put out signs".

Organisers are asked: "Which traffic management company are you using to provide traffic management?"

One village party organiser said she had been given quotes "upwards of £500" to hire traffic management firms.

Cambridgeshire's Information Strategy Manager, Debbie Maith, said the council's hands were tied by the provisions of the 2004 Traffic Management Act and added: "We have done as much as we can. We have to abide by the legislation."

The council said if parties were staged in cul-de-sacs or on unadopted roads traffic management firms would not be required.

Shortly after the Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition came to power in 2010, Communities Secretary Eric Pickles said he had "succeeded in his quest to ban the reams of forms, high costs and red tape getting in the way of communities organising street parties".

"Fetes, street parties and fairs should be fun, and everyone's energy needs to go into the fun part - not trawling through endless reams of guidance and dusty rules," he said in August.

"I want to banish the myths around laws preventing people from putting on events."

Local Government Minister Bob Neill said today: "We have worked across government and with Streets Alive, the Big Lunch and local government partners to agree a consistent approach for councils to follow, and produce a good practice guidance for councils setting out more up front transparency on what organisers need.

"Whitehall rules aren't holding councils back. Councils now need to do their bit to cut unnecessary red tape and help foster a sense of community spirit on this national day of celebration."

Jennifer Ravenhill, who is organising a street party in Shepreth, Cambridgeshire, said villagers traditionally held street parties in the High Street but had decided to switch to an unadopted lane to avoid the cost of hiring traffic managers.





Sri Lanka's leading menswear specialist Hameedia has been chosen to be featured in "Exclusive Resorts and Day Spas", an award-winning television show featuring leading Resorts, Hotels and Attractions from around the world. The show is aired on the Cox Media network in the USA, and is soon to be aired on other networks around the world.

Alexander Shambly, the programme's celebrity host who was in Colombo recently singled out Hameedia

to be featured on the programme. "In my opinion, Hameedia is one of the best tailors in the world of fashion. I have been very impressed by the quality of its work and its sheer professionalism. Although the show is mainly about leading Resorts, Hotels and Attractions, I thought it fit to include Hameedia in the Sri Lanka segment and promote it as among the best in this region," he said.

"As a former international model myself and having been at the forefront of the fashion and beauty business for over 25 years, I admire Hameedia for its creative design. Its products are world class and there's no reason why Hameedia shouldn't do well on the highly competitive international market", Shambly added.

The programme has been in production for the past six years and has done numerous episodes. More

popular destinations have been the Maldives, Dubai, Hong Kong, Vietnam, Australia, Thailand and Singapore. Primary viewership is from the USA, Australia and Europe with web-based traffic attracting viewers across 35 countries.

Exclusive Resorts and Day Spas has featured the leading Resorts and Hotels including Luxury brands such as Raffles Hotels, Kempinski, John Keells Group, W Hotels and Taj Hotels to name a few.

Shambly has written articles for leading Lifestyle and Travel publications including Mode Bride, Nosatras Magazine as Fashion and Travel journalist; Wentworth Courier (Travel article), The Bulletin and other international lifestyle and travel publications to name a few.

Shambly's company "Lifestyles Incorporated" operated in the major fashion centres of the world with an international reputation for delivering world class service and keeping abreast of changing fashion trends throughout the world.

He has successfully presented fashion shows around the world designed for the corporate woman

in mind. His symposium covers fashion, day and evening make-up techniques, latest hair care trends, health and nutrition as well as dressing for success. During these years he wrote a book which was accepted for publication by Vantage Press, New York, New York titled "Beauty - a Special Message" which focused on the latest trends in beauty and lifestyle enhancement.

Shambly has lectured for Prime Ministers and Heads of State both in Australia and overseas. He is one of the most respected authorities of Lifestyle Television in the world, as he often appears on leading Resorts and Hotels of the world's websites.

The programme's website receives 1 million hits a week with viewers from Europe, Asia, North America and the Indian Ocean region. This has generated an extraordinary amount of DVD sales globally.





NEW DELHI (AP) - As Indian batting great Sachin Tendulkar heads into his record sixth cricket World Cup, a nation of 1.2 billion are hoping he can cap a phenomenal career with a win for host India.

Tendulkar is the holder of virtually every major batting record in Test and one-day cricket, including most runs and most centuries in either form, and most believe a World Cup win will complete his career of achievements.

Former West Indian batsman Vivian Richards said during a World Cup promotional event here last month that "the World Cup would be the icing on the cake for Sachin Tendulkar."

Just as Tendulkar's consistency has been credited with India's superb recent form, runs from the Mumbai player's bat have had a direct bearing on the team's fortunes in the World Cup.





President Mahinda Rajapaksa on Monday (31) met visiting Indian Foreign Minister Secretary Nirupama Rao at Temple Trees, where the President assured her that the Navy hadn't carried out recent attacks on Indian fishermen.

Mrs. Rao, a former Indian High Commissioner in Colombo was accompanied by Indian High Commissioner in Colombo Ashok K. Kantha. External Affairs Minister Prof. G.L. Peiris, Foreign Secretary Romesh Jayasinghe, presidential secretary Lalith Weeratunga and Sri Lanka's High Commissioner in New Delhi Prasad Kariyawasam were also present.

Sources said that Rao had informed President Rajapaksa of India's concerns over the recent attacks on Indian fishermen. (SF)





The prevailing situation in Jaffna has received considerable attention in Parliament and the media. The debate has centered around the alleged increase in lawlessness and impunity in the peninsula. Some 24 killings have been reported in the past two months in addition to robberies, incidents of housebreaking and other crime. Most of these incidents have taken place outside of Jaffna town and in the more interior parts of the peninsula. Government spokespersons have by and large hotly denied that any situation of crisis exists and cited comparable statistics of crime in other parts of the country. Political analysts have also pointed to the forthcoming local government elections as being a possible factor in the sudden spiking of violence.

Those who visit Jaffna either for business, pilgrimage and tourism may be inclined to agree with the government description of Jaffna as a success story of post-war normalization. There have been a substantial number of visitors to Jaffna since the end of the war, surpassing the three million mark if government figures are correct, and hardly any incidents of violence with regard to them. There are visible signs of economic recovery in Jaffna, with new shops and shopping complexes, and several financial institutions competing with each other for the savings of the people. The visibly large presence of the Sri Lankan armed forces in Jaffna does not hinder the free movement of people and economic goods into and across the peninsula.

However, the situation in Jaffna is different from other parts of the country on at least two counts. No other part of the country has such a heavy concentration of military personnel. Jaffna was the most heavily defended part of the war-affected north and east during the three decade long war with the LTTE. This was both on account of its concentration of population and its status as the future capital of an independent state of Tamil Eelam. Even when the LTTE was at the height of its powers in the period following 1999 and expanded its territorial hold over vast tracts of the north and east, its inability to secure Jaffna was a major setback to its dream of a separate state. Nearly two years after the defeat and elimination of the LTTE, the size of the Sri Lankan security forces in Jaffna remains undiminished.

Armed Groups

The consolidation of the military presence in Jaffna after the war has been one of the more unexpected features of post-war Sri Lanka. There was a reasonable anticipation that in the aftermath of the war, the government would wish to downscale the armed forces in the former war zones, if only to save on the economic burden of maintaining them at full strength. The process of winning the hearts and minds of the people would also have led to the belief that the role of the armed forces would diminish in a time of peace and yield to the imperatives of democratic and civilian government. During the presidential election of January 2010, President Mahinda Rajapaksa and his rival former Army Commander General Sarath Fonseka both appeared to be competing with each other in this regard.

One promise both presidential contestants made was to make major reductions in the presence of high security zones. This is a promise honoured in the breach. Little has changed on the ground in Jaffna although much changed in politics after the Presidential election. The other unchanging feature of Jaffna is the prevalence of armed groups associated with the government. The chief amongst these is the EPDP which also functions as a mainstream political party not only in Jaffna but in other parts of the north and east as well. EDPD leader Douglas Devananda survived numerous assassination attempts by the LTTE. During the years of the war, the EPDP played an invaluable role for successive governments in being their eyes and ears on the ground, in addition to undertaking tasks that the regular armed forces could not.

The thoroughness of the military conquest of the LTTE has been shown by the absence of any terrorist attack or violence in the post-war phase. The recent terrorist strike on an airport in the Russian capital highlights the Sri Lankan success. It is likely that the anti subversive and intelligence gathering role played by parties and armed Tamil groups has contributed in no small way to the prevention of similar attacks in Sri Lanka. The government can conceivably justify its security policy, including the deployment of vast numbers of military personnel in the north and east, and the use of armed Tamil groups, by referring to its success in preventing any post-war terrorist strike. Perhaps unsurprisingly, many of those killed in recent days in Jaffna are those who have had some association with the LTTE or with Tamil nationalism.

Civilian Rule

The restoration of normal conditions to Jaffna after the war has therefore been accompanied by its continued militarization. The Sri Lankan armed forces continue to play the dominant role in governance to the exclusion of the civilian administration. The emergence of the issue of the national anthem being sung in Sinhala and not in Tamil in the north and east can be attributed to the militarization of government in those parts of the country. As the Sri Lankan armed forces are almost fully Sinhala in ethnic composition, it is natural that they would feel more comfortable having the national anthem sung in the Sinhala language even if most of the Tamil people they rule over do not know that language.

On the other hand, the conduct of the Sri Lankan military has been exemplary in the main. The higher ranks of the officer corps have earned praise from ordinary civilians and also from the international community. The Jaffna army commander Major General Mahinda Hathurusinghe has won an international peace award, the Gusi peace prize from the Philippines. Nevertheless it is a difficult prospect for the people of Jaffna to be satisfied with the present situation in the peninsula. In this democratic age, no group of people would wish to be governed by military personnel, especially those from a different ethnic nationality. Nor will they wish to be intimidated by armed personnel even if they are from their own community and working on behalf of the government.

It is necessary that the government should address the dilemma it faces. On the one hand, having gone through a war that lasted nearly three decades and almost divided the country, the government would not wish to relax its security measures too soon. Although two years may be a lot of time from the perspective of individuals who have suffered and seek to put the past behind them, two years is a short time in the history of a country. The absence of progress with regard to finalizing a political solution that would address the roots of the ethnic conflict is a sign that the government is still not prepared to trust the democratic process. The government's apprehension is that the Tamil parties will demand too much which cannot be conceded at this time.

On the other hand, ensuring the security of the country by relying primarily on militarization of the Tamil-majority areas of the north and east is likely to hopelessly alienate the Tamil people. It will not win their hearts and minds. In this democratic age it is ultimately the willing consent of the people that is necessary for governance that is peaceful, successful and productive. In the case of the Tamil people of the north and east, and especially Jaffna which is the civilisational capital of the Tamil people in Sri Lanka, it requires ensuring that they are governed by those they willingly vote for, and not by those who coerce them with their guns.

LLRC Recommendation

In recent days there have been two positive developments in regard to fostering peace and reconciliation in the country. One is the dialogue between the government and TNA, which is the main Tamil political party. This dialogue has received encouragement from India. The visit to the United States by President Mahinda Rajapaksa last week may also have included a component relating to the government's receptiveness to political engagement with the Tamil parties to ward off international pressures on it due to war crimes allegations. He other positive development is with regard to the government's responsiveness to the recommendations of the Commission on Lessons Learnt and Reconciliation.

The interim recommendations of the Commission on Lessons Learnt and Reconciliation appointed by the President are significant in relation to the situation in Jaffna. There are some who see the LLRC as simply the government's answer to the demands by sections of the international community for accountability on human rights issues during the war. However, the LLRC has a larger purpose. This is to chart out for the government and for Sri Lankan society a vision of what the future should be, based on the lessons of the past. The LLRC has been meeting a wider cross section of the people and intellectuals than any comparable body in recent times. It is composed of eminent persons with a range of expertise and representing all ethnic nationalities.

The government recently accepted one of the LLRC's interim recommendations for implementation. This was with regard to the issue of investigating the cases against LTTE suspects without delaying them further. In a similar spirit the government needs to take on board the LLRC's recommendation that all armed groups be disarmed. This could be the commencement of a new phase in the relationship between the government and the people of Jaffna. The forthcoming local government elections can also provide a political motivation to the government to do what is right and just and politically advantageous.





I read with alarm and concern Shamindra Fernando's recent report on the plight of students keen to learn English and the future they face especially in under privileged areas. It says that about 1,437 schools are without a single teacher of English in spite of a surplus of 1,512 teachers of English in some educational zones. Among the most striking contributory factors, as the reporter had rightly pointed out are the innate, intrinsic lethargy and the yawning gap between their public pronouncements and genuine, abiding commitment to the task in hand. Scale of the problem and its immediacy seem to be so vast that the President could do well to knock the heads together of those responsible to drum some sense into their swollen heads. The irony of it is that their children are not affected as they enjoy special privileges to ensure the best for themselves. "I am alright Jack" mentality pervades the length and breadth of officialdom and ministerial ranks who are in cahoots with each other. Sri Lanka needs action and not rhetoric to capture the headlines and media limelight. Our propensity to pomp and pageantry take us nowhere but down into the doldrums of deprivation. As they would say in the UK, those responsible and guilty are not simply fit for office before they are kicked out. There is zero tolerance for elected public figures in UK, be it misappropriation of funds or abuse of privileges. Currently, a few high ranking people are serving sentence in prison for their wrong doings in public office. That is what we need in Sri Lanka: accountability and consequences for the lack of it.

Britain as the seat of English Language is best placed to help Sri Lanka if only the powers that be know how to communicate. British High Commission in Colombo would be able to get the message across to VSO (Voluntary Services Overseas) where there is no shortage of well trained, educated English teachers willing to teach English in under developed countries. Their sole motivation for voluntary work is to help and not profit and perks. Imagine the real tangible difference it would make to our children when dedication and commitment replace profit and perks. Our children need not be living in the cities attending better known schools to benefit as VSO would only target the rural communities.





MELBOURNE, Australia (AP) - It was another Scottish day for Andy Murray.

The lanky 23-year-old has joked that when he's on a winning streak he is adopted as British in the United Kingdom of England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales but when he's losing he's more likely to be called a Scot, the nation of his birth.

Novak Djokovic's 6-4, 6-2, 6-3 victory over Murray at the Australian Open on Sunday fits squarely into the latter category, making Murray 0-3 in Grand Slam finals and extending a nearly 75-year drought for British men in the majors.

The reaction in the notoriously strident British press was swift.

"Andy Murray handed a vibrant, hungry Novak Djokovic his second Australian Open title today in two hours and 39 minutes of truly wretched tennis," The Guardian newspaper wrote on its web site. "At the third time of asking the Scot could not win a set in a Grand Slam final."

The story said he "moved with the bounce of a sloth, served meekly and lacked any of the vim that had carried him this far."

Normally racier than its broadsheet cousins, tabloid The Sun was a little kinder, noting at least that all of Britain had high hopes going into the match.

"We were all hoping for a bit of Murray magic, a humdinger of a final, a real rollercoaster ride," the paper reported from Melbourne. "Instead it was the dampest of squibs for our boy and the millions watching back home."

Fred Perry was the last British man to win a Grand Slam singles title, the U.S. Open in 1936.

Murray has borne the next-big-hope tag since he reached the U.S. Open final three years ago and has been consistently ranked in the top five ever since. He reached his second major final here last year, but lost to Roger Federer, who also denied him the U.S. Open title.

With Federer out after a semifinal loss to Djokovic, Sunday's match was considered Murray's best chance yet for a major.

A crestfallen Murray was offered reminded that Andre Agassi lost three Grand Slam finals before going on to win his first, and then seven more, and asked if that gave him hope.

"I'm not Andre Agassi, and I don't claim to be like any of those guys," Murray said. "I hope one day, I can get there."

CHAMPION MOTHER

Kim Clijsters wore the glow of a Grand Slam winner and the perspective of a working mother who worries about spending too much time on the road.

The 27-year-old Belgian hoisted her trophy for the cameras Sunday for a day-after photo shoot at Melbourne's Brighton beach, where she posed in front of historic huts and dipped her toes in the bay on a hot summer's day.

The night before, Clijsters defeated China's Li Na to win her first Australian Open and her fourth major - her third since returning from a 2 1/2-year break from tennis to start a family.

Her daughter, Jada, who turns 3 next month, accompanies her on tour, along with husband Brian Lynch and other members of her family.

It's the kind of world Clijsters, whose father was a professional football player and whose mother was a Belgian gymnastics champion, has long known, and one she doesn't wants for her daughter.

"I know in our situation because my dad was a little famous that it was a little hard sometimes," Clijsters said Sunday. "People have a prejudgement and that's something that I felt when I was younger and I used to get teased in school and it was very bad at some points.

"So those are things that I don't want her to go through," she said of Jada.

Clijsters said 2011 will probably be her final full year on the tour, though she would like to play at the London Olympics in 2012 and told the crowd after winning her title here that she'd like to come back and defend it. She also wants another baby, though there are no firm plans.

Clijsters' comeback has served as an inspiration for many women, including some of the top players.

"Wow I'm so impressed! Mommy and winner??? U r my hero!! kiss kiss," Serena Williams wrote in a Twitter post to Clijsters soon after the final. Serena Williams won the Australian title last year but was unable to defend it due to a persistent foot injury.

Jada doesn't seem so impressed.

"To her it really doesn't matter," Clijsters said "I mean, she's always excited. Although when she saw the trophy, she was like, 'Who is that trophy for?' And then she's like, 'Did you win that?"

DEDICATED TO SERBIA

In the past, Novak Djokovic has attributed some of his toughness to growing up in war-ravaged Serbia. On Sunday, he dedicated his Australian Open victory to his country.

"There has been a tough period for our people in Serbia," Djokovic said after beating Andy Murray in the final and kissing his trophy on the winner's podium. "But we are trying every single day to present our country in the best possible way. So this is for my country, Serbia."

Fellow Serbian player Ana Ivanovic sat in the stands, smiling and clapping.

The No. 3-ranked Djokovic, along with Ivanovic and Jelena Jankovic - both former No. 1-ranked women - have focused attention on the potential of Serbian players who overcame war and limited tennis infrastructure to rank among the world's best.

As children growing up in Belgrade, Djokovic and Ivanovic trained at a club that used an empty swimming pool as a makeshift tennis court.

The trio of talented Serbs were approached at different points of their careers to play for other countries - Djokovic for Britain, Ivanovic for Switzerland, and Jankovic for the United States. All declined. Nine-time Grand Slam winner Monica Seles was born in a part of the former Yugoslavia that later became Serbia, but became a U.S. citizen at the peak of her career in the 1990s.

Djokovic also helped Serbia win its first ever Davis Cup title in December, and has described capturing the international team competition as among the high points of his career.

"The Davis Cup win may have a big role in my great performance here in this tournament," Djokovic said Sunday. "After we won the Davis Cup title I was feeling great on the court, just eager to compete."

BY THE NUMBERS

If it weren't for the racket stringers, the towel washers and the 49,000 tennis balls, none of this would have been possible.

Now that the Australian Open has ended, the final numbers have been crunched.

Records were set and history was made, notably by 28-year-old Li Na for becoming the first Chinese player to reach a Grand Slam final.

There were 256 players in the main singles draw from 46 nations including big-serving Canadian Milos Raonic, who set a record for having 46 rackets restrung on his run to the third round. The 20-year-old Raonic fired the fastest serve at 230 kph (143 mph) and had the most aces, at 94 aces.





In the wake of complaints that many private hospitals are overcharging patients, Health Minister Maithripala Sirisena has set up a 12-member committee to explore ways and means of setting up a monitoring mechanism. He intends to amend the Private Medical Institutions Regulatory Act.

Minister Sirisena told The Island that amendments were necessary to supervise, advise, monitor or to check private hospitals with regard to quality of healthcare services, drugs and payments.

He said that for want of government intervention those who sought treatment at some private hospitals were at their mercy.

The Polonnaruwa District MP said that recently a retired top Health Ministry official had been charged Rs. 100,000 for a pint of blood by a certain private hospital. The hospital had later withdrawn the bill after the victim pointed out that blood was given free to all private hospitals by the National Blood Centre.

Minister Sirisena said that the Healthcare Ministry would also launch checks on mushrooming medical diagnostic centers to prevent quacks and para-medics without required qualifications running them.





The U.S. Embassy urges Americans to leave the country. Sunday's protests are less unruly but fervent. Police vacate cities, and citizens arm themselves with bats and steel bars against looting. Thousands of Islamist prisoners reportedly have escaped from a Cairo prison.

Egyptian authorities scrambled low-flying fighter jets and dispatched helicopters over thousands of protesters gathered Sunday in the central square of the capital for a sixth day of demonstrations against the regime of President Hosni Mubarak.

On the first day of the Egyptian workweek, witnesses also reported protests in the city of Alexandria as the military announced full control over major cities, and an ominous sense of impending violence swept across the country. Gas stations, banks and many businesses were shuttered in the capital.

The U.S. Embassy in Cairo on Sunday urged Americans in Egypt to consider leaving the country for security reasons, news agencies reported.

Sunday's protests were less boisterous than in previous days but just as fervent. Arab television channels showed large crowds gathering in Cairo's Tahrir Square chanting, "The people want the regime to fall."

For nearly a week, Egypt has been rocked by its worst civil unrest in recent history. Inspired by the popular uprising that toppled the 23-year regime of Tunisian strongman Zine el-Abidine ben Ali, ordinary Egyptians have taken to the streets to oppose Mubarak, who has ruled the country for 30 years. Led by a new generation of youth, they have defied Mubarak's extensive security apparatus, including police, which have largely fled their posts and left the cities of Cairo, Alexandria and Suez to the army.

As the protests continued, the despised Egyptian police have vacated cities, sparking fear among residents, who stood guard in their neighborhoods armed with bats and clubs against potential looting. Adolescents were seen wielding steel bars. Al Arabiya television reported that shops had been targeted in a rash of looting incidents and that the army had arrested an unspecified number of outlaws in the act of stealing.

Arabiya also reported in urgent screen captions that thousands of Islamists held in prisons had escaped from the Wadi Natroun prison north of Cairo. State television interviewed some members of the outlawed Islamist opposition group the Muslim Brotherhood who earlier had been freed in an apparent goodwill gesture by Mubarak's regime.

The Associated Press cited unnamed security officials as saying prisoners had escaped from four prisons. But many wonder whether the regime is creating a security panic — even directing plainclothes agents to riot and loot — in order to send protesters scurrying back to their homes and justify a harsh crackdown, a tactic used by the Iranian government to crush 2009 protests and Ben Ali in a failed attempt to halt protests earlier this month.

"This is an unwritten rule regarding the nature of urban war and uprisings, and it's meant to gain power over the street," said Theodore Karasik, an analyst at the Institute for Near East and Gulf Military Analysis, a think tank in Dubai and Beirut. "It backfires when others from other security or military units see what happens and try to mitigate or encourage it. I think its commonplace, more commonplace than we believe."

The army appeared to have bolstered its presence. Soldiers stood guard on streets, preventing drivers from accessing key roads. The army has pleaded with Egyptians to abide by a 6 p.m. curfew that has so far been brazenly flouted.

Cellphone and Internet coverage continued to be spotty, the result of the regime's attempt to prevent protesters from organizing by way of text messages and social-networking websites such as Facebook.

Mubarak's regime also has taken heavy-handed measures against international media. Al Jazeera on Sunday condemned the closure of its Cairo bureau by Egyptian authorities. The Doha-based channel, which has energized activists with its nonstop coverage of widespread protests against authoritarian regimes throughout the Arab world, vowed to continue its work.

"Al Jazeera sees this as an act designed to stifle and repress the freedom of reporting by the network and its journalists," the network said in a statement. "In this time of deep turmoil and unrest in Egyptian society, it is imperative that voices from all sides be heard."

The Tunisian and Egyptian uprisings are motivating people around the Arab world to voice solidarity. Protesters gathered Friday in front of the Egyptian embassies in Amman, Jordan and Beirut.

"We would like to see all authoritarian regimes change their policies or risk the wrath of their people," Hamza Mansour, secretary general of the Islamic Action Front, the political arm of the Jordanian branch of the Muslim Brotherhood, was quoted as saying.

He added that the event was a sign of Arab solidarity. "Arab reform has started in Tunisia, and we expect to see it everywhere."

Protests against authoritarian Arab regimes also have broken out in Jordan, Yemen and Algeria. In Lebanon on Sunday morning, several hundred protesters marched in Beirut to demand that the country's fragmented political elite quit squabbling and address economic concerns.

"Tunisia and Egypt had only one dictator," said Maytham Kassir, 20, a student at the Lebanese University. "We have 15 or 16."





UNP and Opposition Leader Ranil Wickremesinghe yesterday warned that unless the government took urgent steps to reduce the high cost of living people would take to the streets like in Tunisia.

Addressing a party rally at Gampaha, Wickremesinghe said that the food prices, especially that of rice, were bound to increase further during the festive season aggravating the people's woes. Wickremesinghe said the people had been made to pay for the government's economic mismanagement. The government lacked a clear vision and direction, he said calling upon the people to vote for the UNP

which had earned a name as the party capable of building the economy.

The volatile situation in Tunisia should serve as a warning to the government which was groping in the dark, unable to give relief to the suffering masses crying out for help, the Opposition Leader said adding that the people had got an opportunity to register their protest by voting for the UNP at the March 17 LG polls. He said he was confident that his party would fare extremely well at that election and be in a position to turn the tables on the government.

The end of the corrupt, inefficient Rajapaksa government was near, he said.





Inflation in Sri Lanka 6.8 percent in January

January 31, 2011, 10:24 pm

Sri Lanka's headline inflation, the rate at which prices increase, as measured by the Colombo Consumers' Price Index (CCPI), fell marginally to 6.8 percent in January 2011 from 6.9 percent in December, but this is due to a technicality called the base effect in statics, but prices, especially food prices, continued to increase.

"The rate of inflation as measured by the CCPI on a Year on Year basis decreased to 6.8 percent further in January 2011 from 6.9 percent recorded in December 2010, due to the high base prevalence in January 2010," the Department of Census and Statistics said yesterday (31).

"Sri Lanka's 12 month moving Average inflation as measured by the CCPI settled in the month of January at a single digit figure of 6.0 percent for the eighteenth consecutive time since August 2009," the department said.

The 12 month moving average has risen continuously since reaching 3.1 percent in January 2010.

"On a year to year basis, the highest contribution to the overall increase of around 78 per cent came from food commodities which increased by 5 percent in January 2011. The combined effects of both domestically produced and imported food commodities contributed to the increase in the food sub index," the government statistic office said.

"Among the food commodities, vegetables, coconut and coconut oil which have significant weights in the CCPI basket recorded price increases on a year to year basis. Under the non-food category, the prices of gas rose by 8 percent while Petrol, Diesel and Kerosene Oil remained unchanged," the department said.

On a month-to-month basis, food items experienced increases in prices such as most varieties of vegetables, fish and sea food, red onions, green chillies and coconut due to bad weather conditions in the island and less supply to Colombo from main producing areas. However, rice prices have decreased due to more supply from main producing areas during the month of January 2011. On an average, expenditure value on items in food group increased by Rs. 442.20," the statistics office said.

With floods affecting the North and East in January, food prices are expected to increase further and its affects on the index would be seen in the months ahead, but market analysts, like the Central Bank, are confident this phenomenon would be temporary. However, the main concern these days remain as to how global commodity prices move.

The government has already moved to cut import duties on petrol and milk powder so that domestic prices could be maintained as they are. Petrol prices usually has no bearing on other domestic prices such as food, but the move to reduce its import tax was to avoid strain on the heavily subsidised diesel, widely used for transportation purposes.

Meanwhile, the Central Bank has said there was no need to tighten monetary policy rates at this stage based on inflationary pressures brought upon by the flooding. It fact, the Central Bank said there was room for more private sector credit growth without causing the economy to overheat.

The Central Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF) believe, as highlighted previously in The Island Financial Review, there is room for interest rates to fall further in the medium term. However, rising global commodity prices could change this stance.

The Central Bank said it was committed to maintaining inflation within single digit levels, and with the government's fiscal performance showing signs of improving this may be possible. However, as inflation means the rate at which prices increase, people continue to feel the burden of the rising cost of living.





Vehicle carbon emission causes increased environmental concerns in Sri Lanka. With the increase in vehicle ownership, carbon emissions levels have to be controlled and maintained at an environmentally acceptable limit. CleanCo Lanka Limited, the owners of DriveGreen, is not only contributing to increasing the cleanliness of the environment but is also helping its customers improve the fuel economy of vehicles that they use. This contributes towards reducing the carbon footprint of the vehicles by controlling the usage of fuel as well as reducing the harmful emissions overall.

By testing the vehicles for the harmful emissions accurately with the state of the art equipment which CleanCo uses, the customers can appreciate what condition their vehicle is in. Based on these findings, the CleanCo staff can provide the customers with initial recommendations on the steps that they should be taking to improve the fuel usage efficiency of the vehicle. This will allow the customers to identify and rectify any problems related to their vehicle's fuel usage at an early stage. This also saves the repair cost of such vehicles. Generally, most vehicle related problems can be corrected at a fraction of the cost at the initial stage compared with repair at later, more aggravated stage. Thus, CleanCo provides a necessary health check of vehicles to detect any negative signs on their fuel efficiency.

Out of the total number of vehicles passing through CleanCo's vehicle emission testing centres in an average month, over 50% are motor cycles, while around 15% are motor cars; the remaining 35% consists of other vehicles Their testing procedures and recommendations on improvement provides a massive saving on fuel to the consumer as well as contributing to reducing country's import expenditure of oil.

CleanCo Lanka Limited operates over 50 DriveGreen vehicle emission testing centres, spanning 90 locations across Sri Lanka. The emission testing certificate is mandatory for all vehicles on an annual basis. Having been in the business since 2007, CleanCo Lanka is one of the only two companies licensed to carry out annual emission tests for vehicles registered with the Department of Motor Traffic in Sri Lanka. With the new duty rates in effect from 30th June, the total number of vehicles population is expected to increase. In keeping with this increasing need, DriveGreen hopes to expand its network to 115 locations by the end of 2011, while enhancing the facilities provided in the current stations. CleanCo Lanka is a subsidiary of a local family owned company, Akbar Brothers Pvt. Ltd.





Melbourne: International Cricket Council chief executive Haroon Lorgat says an upcoming verdict on spot-fixing allegations against three Pakistan players will not tarnish the World Cup.

"There's some time between when the verdict is released .... we were keen to have it well before the start of the World Cup," Lorgat said on Saturday.

An anti-corruption tribunal against Pakistan cricketers Salman Butt, Mohammad Asif and Mohammad Amir ended last week with no decision and a verdict was deferred to Feb 5.

The trio was alleged to have accepted payments for bowling no-balls at pre-arranged times in the fourth Test against England at Lord's at the end of August so as to fix spot betting markets. England won by an innings and 225 runs, handing Pakistan its worst Test defeat. Within days, Butt, Asif and Amir — named Pakistan's player of the series — were suspended by the ICC and charged with corruption.

However, the tribunal acquitted Asif and Amir of all charges relating to the third Test at The Oval and Butt of all but one charge. The charges had never been made public until last week, and the tribunal did not say what the trio was accused of doing in that match. Pakistan won that Test by four wickets.

The World Cup begins in India, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh on Feb 19 and Lorgat said the subcontinent will be ready, although five grounds have yet to be completed.

The final is scheduled to be played at Mumbai's Wankhede Stadium on April 2, although the venue is still a building site.

"Five stadia are still to be completed but there are no alarm bells ringing and I'm sure they will be ready well before the World Cup," Lorgat told a media conference in Melbourne on Saturday.

Mumbai will host two group matches on March 13 and 17 in addition to the final. Calcutta will host four group matches, the first on Feb 27 between India and England.

Both venues missed the original deadline for construction of Nov 30, and the ICC ordered faster progress so the stadiums will be ready for handover to the ICC on Jan 31.

Criticism of the slow construction was similar to the buildup to the New Delhi Commonwealth Games last October, when officials raced to the last minute to prepare venues and accommodation.









The long awaited funds from the International Rugby Board (IRB) to promote rugby-football in the country, has been given the green light and should be in the SLRFU coffers shortly.

These funds had not been received by the Sri Lanka Rugby Football Union (SLRFU) since 2008 due to interim committees being in control of the game in the island. Now that the SLRFU has an elected body, with no less a person than the Chief of Defence Staff, Air Chief Marshall Roshan Goonetilleke at the helm of affairs, all rugby fans can breathe a lot easier.

Now that IRB funds are on the way and with a good set of officials at the helm of things, including Vice President Lasith Gunaratne, it is hoped that rugby will prosper once again and will also spread to the liberated North and East as well.

Roshan's climb to the topmost ladder in the local rugby hierarchy was long anticipated. He has played rugby for St. Peter's, Air Force and the Defense Services. He is the son of the late Air Force Chief, Harry Goonetilleke. It can be said that Roshan practically has been breathing rugby from the days that he was a toddler.

Due to people like Y. C. Chang, a former Sri Lanka skipper and one of the toughest prop forwards produced by Sri Lanka, rugby thrived in the '90s, particularly in 2000. Adding much power to the movement was Arjun Dharmadasa of Kelani Valley. Under the movement spearheaded by these two stalwarts, the sport blossomed in Sabaragamuwa and gradually spread to the South, Uva, Wayamba, Central Province, North Central Province and the Western Province. The hard work was done by representatives of the SLRFU with funds provided by the IRB.

This sudden resurgence bore fruit almost immediately and a host of rugby players emerged from the Sabaragamuwa Province who went on to don the National jersey.

Several female rugby players too emerged during this period. This resulted with the Sri Lanka women's team winning the Bowl at the Asian Women's Championship in Singapore (2005).

Then a sudden dearth hit the sport. This was due to the sudden halt of the IRB funds. Many development plans came to a grinding halt. Those students who learnt the game during this period suddenly found themselves at a loose end. Officials and school children idled.

Y. C. Chang and his officials' hard work went down the drain. Rugby was taught at grass roots level and a lot of hard work was involved. Masters and masters-in-charge of schools were put through a crash course in rugby, as a means of promoting the game. These new rugby trainers were presented with a rugby ball each at the end of their training sessions, mainly to keep the sport alive in these far off places.

Sarath Ranaweera (former Manager, Rugby Development Committee) said that the most number of participants were from the South, a province that suffered greatly from the Tsunami. "They came in great numbers to participate. The results are now bearing fruit with St. Aloysius' College and Richmond College, Galle, doing well in rugby.

Kumar Abeywardena, the former Trinity and Havelocks player and President of the Ruhunu Rugby Football Union, has been another who gave of his best to uplift the standard of rugby in the Southern Province.

Rugby in the Central Province, Sabaragamuwa and Uva too thrived and a successful camp was held at St. Aloysius' Grounds, in Galle, in 2006.





Indian Consultant E. N. T. Surgeon Dr. K. Meganarth has trained Sri Lankan E. N. T. surgeons on new techniques of nose surgery without external cuttings. The Sri Lankan E. N. T. Surgeons Association says the Indian training can help its members in a big way.

E. N. T. Surgeon Dr. Chandra Jayasooriya told The Island that the Indian E. N. T. surgical team, headed by Dr. Maganarth had trained several Sri Lankans on the latest techniques applied to nose operations through the use of endoscopy. In this new surgical breakthrough, patients who had nasal operations would be able to go home within a few days. The operations could be performed without external cuttings of the nose.

He added that the Indian surgical team had performed a number of operations in the island. This new technology would enhance the operating methods used by the surgeons.





A Sri Lanka stock investment website has closed after warnings against misleading investors by the capital markets regulator, whose officials said they were cracking down on such sites.

An official at the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) said they warned the people operating the website, saying misleading advice that influence share prices could violate SEC regulations.

The operator of the site, investnow.lk, decided to close last week after the warning by the regulator.

A notice posted on the website said it was "temporarily suspending" the forum in order to "rework" its strategy and create a "professional entity that will continue to help investors navigate the great depths of the market and act to be a credible guide with the help of you all, the community."

It said it would act in a manner that "best serves the community . . . and be free from manipulative control through education and creating awareness."

The site offered to refund members for any services paid for that are still valid.

The SEC official said they were also monitoring other websites that offer advice on investing in the stock market which has been on a bull run since the island's 30-year ethnic war ended in 2009.

The SEC was also investigating stock brokers believed to be behind some of the websites that offer advice to investors, he said.

The Colombo bourse was Asia's second-best performing market last year.













The tirade against doctors, mostly the specialists and not so much the general practitioners does not seem to end, but appears to extend almost non-stop with each complainant trying to outdo the other, quoting their own experiences which no doubt had been pitiful and harrowing at the hands or feet of medical specialists.

Some of those who have so suffered are keen to put their cases/versions across in a veritable sense of the genuinely aggrieved and thus relieve themselves to some extent of the mental agony they have suffered.

Some of them, in their agony, seemed to have adopted near-abusive language to deride and condemn some of the medical specialists who are alleged to have had no sense of politeness and kindness in their dealings with the patients and their escorts.

Aspects of these allegations and counter explanations need to be looked at in a broad perspective, giving due consideration to the fact that the entire social set up in the stranglehold of the current consumerist economy drives all of us entrapped in its ever tightening tentacles to outdo and outsmart others, in a mad rush in the rat race for one upmanship.

It is at this juncture that the oft quoted dictum "to err is human to forgive is divine" should come into play, to soften up frayed and heated nerves in mind and body of all affected parties. This is the time to dispassionately analyse the whole situation without rancour to any quarter and in fairness to all concerned. All involved parties should not only be human, but palpably humane as well, shutting out any lingering streaks of wrathful thought and action.

In a article entitled "Doctors not the root cause of all evil", carried in 'The Island' of May 11, 2001, Dr. Sarath Gamini Silva, a learned medical person had convincingly dealt with all aspects pertaining to both the mental and physical attributes, along with the limitations and tribulations of medical specialists in their restricted work field. Aspects of their character and professional practice were also pointed out, indicating the gamut of trial and error some of them are subject to as human beings.

Dr. Silva, in his exposition, has pointed out some of the sins of omission and commission of the government too, in the non-provision of essential necessities and adequate staff to maintain state hospitals. He has also commented on the vulnerability of a handful of medical specialists to stray away from the accepted norms and course of patient-friendly health care services which of course will have to be mended and rectified by themselves through their own free will and clear their conscience of any feelings of misdemeanour.

In these circumstances, the patients and their caretakers should give some thought and consideration to these ground realities and be reasonable in their judgement of the medical specialists. If some of them are intransigent and unable to reform themselves, it is incumbent on their religious mentors, personal friends and spouses – if they have any - to prevail upon the concerned medical men to be humane in their outlook, so that they could gradually give up their unrestrained avarice for the filthy lucre at all times.

In this context, it maybe relevant and coincidental to make some reference to a recent press report that highlighted the exorbitant emoluments paid to some medical specialists in a high grade Colombo Hospital (emanated from some audit queries) which inevitably caught the attention of all concerned to the vast earning potential of the concerned medical specialists, in addition to their private practice on a daily basis.

They will have to be moderate in such pursuits. Healing and caring patients should be uppermost in their mind. That should be the prime concern and ultimate attainment of all medical practitioners.

When such a change of attitude and patient friendly service is establihed, people will always respect them as godly life givers.

It is only a miniscule section of medical specialists who have so far been dishonoured, whilst the majority of them have earned the respectful gratitude of ailment, afflicted and cured people all over.





When will these self righteous nationalist 'patriots' give up on their barb of elitism and grouse that Sinhala and Tamil literature and vernacular writers of the past and present are not featured at the Galle Literary Festival? I comment on the article in The Island of 31st January titled : Galle Literary Festival: Myopia or Ignorance? The myopia and ignorance are in the writer of the article – Shyamalee Mahibalan and her ilk. Worthy criticism is salutary and I am sure the founder of the GLF, Geoffrey Dobbs, and this year's curator Shyam Selvadorai will welcome criticism and suggestions for improvement but not an allegation of elitism and racial/language discrimination and not featuring our great literary figures of the likes of Martin Wickremasinghe and Murugesu Ponnambalan to name but two of the persons Shyamalee mentions.

One can write much to refute what Shyamalee has said but I will limit myself to two points. She writes: "This is about the failure of the GLF from its first launch to recognize that there are two more languages in Sri Lanka and there are people who do write in these languages." Will hundreds of foreign language (mostly English) speaking participants at the festival (and the audience is roughly 50-50 expat to local) find it worth their time and money to listen to Sinhala/Tamil literature readings and discussions in the vernacular however distinguished the writers were/are and the speakers erudite?

Costs of passes and tickets to the various sessions are cited and thus elitism is deduced. Enabling us Sri Lankans to listen to, interact, question, converse with such as Jung Chang - coauthor of the very researched biography of Mao - to name but one famous author present this time and greats like Vikram Seth be possible unless a reasonable fee is charged? I find, having gone to all five GLFs that the festival pass still costs Rs 10,000. (Same as before). Maybe the lunches and dinners with one or two authors at each table is pretty expensive, but that too is not elitism. If you can afford it you sit and break bread with a world famous author and you have a super meal too. I don't go for these but I never ever grumble. Let others who like to spend that way, do it.

"How did the English speaking elites of this country simply forget that literature of Sri Lanka does mean Sinhala as well as Tamil," questions Shyamalee in the second para of her article. We are into world literature at the GLF, not merely Sri Lankan. The so called English speaking elites do not forget their own languages or mother tongue, but they feel it worth their while to go to a festival where English is the working language and listen to world renowned published authors of various countries – Sri Lanka, India, Bulgaria, Nigeria, China, Ukraine, Britain, the US. There is always a session on translation; last year Martin Wickremasinghe was felicitated by a visit to his birthplace; Galle and its culture take more than one session. Also it is not English literature that occupy all the sessions. There are workshops, cooking, environment, architecture, controversial issue sessions, music, singing, dance, tea promotion, whale watching and this year two programmes were taped to be relayed over BBC on an aspect of our culture and the trauma of war all over the world. Additionally, many Sri Lankan authors/intellectuals acted as moderators of the sessions – Bradman Weerakoon, Jayantha Dhanapala, Ashok Ferry to name but three of the many who brilliantly showcased the excellence of our own people. Except for Dobbs, all the organizers and helpers were Sri Lankan.

There were plenty of students in the audience since a specially sponsored student exchange programme facilitated some Jaffna students to attend the festival with university students from the south and, to interact with them. Sessions are arranged for school children in Galle and surrounding areas to improve their writing and reading skills with books donated to libraries. A person like Shyamalee might say, "Why not all students, all schools. There must be elitism in choice and discrimination." Any fool would know it is impossible to accommodate this ALL.

Here is the crux of the matter. Anything good has to be faulted, even unjustifiably, just to be heard or read. "If I cannot participate then it is elitist, discriminatory." "We have such an ancient culture – more than 2500 years old and we go for English." Such comments and false pride spread in the background.

I've said this all along and I repeat it: Why don't these promoters of Sinhala and Tamil plan, organize and hold a festival of the literatures of the two languages, or two separate festivals? They can hold it in Anuradhapura or Kandy - comparatively untainted by western colonizers. Or better go to Bintenne and have the BLF S&T. Of course it's so much easier to criticize and do nothing to rectify the criticism you are forwarding. This is a marked character trait of Sri Lankans.

Let not the Galle Lit Fes change its style, content, manner to accommodate crass nationalism and narrow bigotry, which cry the self designated literati-politicians may soon latch onto. A Sri Lankan pastime of politicians mostly and rabid nationalists is to kill the goose that lays the golden egg and go on grumbling and rumbling. No 'live and let live' either.

I find Shyamalee tying herself, and me, in knots in her article. She says: "If not for English translations, we would not have had the opportunity to enjoy their literary gems." (their - Tagore and Rumi). Her final line says she is faulting the GLF. "It's a pity the GLF failed to take cognizance of the fact. Literature is not only for the Colombo based English writers; aspiring writers live beyond the fringes of Galle fort across the country. There are those who aspire to be literary greats like Martin Wickremesinghe..."

('Fact' above is the youth uprisings of 1970s and 80s due to language barrier)

In reply I say, no questions were asked by the organizers whether we were from Colombo, elite or otherwise!!! Anyone around the country could travel to Galle by train or bus as many did for day by day participation. To cater to those who aspire to be great writers in the vernacular, critics of the GLF and/or the Cultural Ministry should get together and organize a lit fes for aspiring authors in the two languages. Stop bellyaching and do something positive is my advice to anyone who merely criticizes, the easiest pastime in the world.





Joint Communiqué on attacks on TN fishermen:

Sri Lanka and India on Monday (31) agreed that use of force couldn't be justified under any circumstances when dealing with Indian fishermen operating in the waters between the two countries.

The following is the full text of a joint statement issued at the conclusion of a two-day visit to Colombo by Indian Foreign Secretary Mrs. Nirupama Rao: The Foreign Secretary of India, Mrs. Nirupama Rao, visited Sri Lanka on 30-31 January 2011. During her visit, she called on His Excellency President Mahinda Rajapaksa and the Hon'ble Minister of External Affairs, Prof. G.L. Peiris, on 31st January 2011. She also met Secretary to the President Lalith Weeratunga, Defence Secretary Gotabaya Rajapaksa and External Affairs Secretary C.R. Jayasinghe.

During the discussions, Foreign Secretary Rao expressed the deep concern of the Government of India at the recent violent incidents in the waters between India and Sri Lanka, which had resulted in the tragic death of two Indian fishermen. She stressed that these incidents should be fully investigated and all steps taken to prevent their recurrence in future. The Sri Lanka authorities emphasized in this regard that it is the consistent policy of Sri Lanka to treat in a humanitarian manner all fishermen, including those from the Indian fishing community, who cross into Sri Lanka waters. Given the very close bilateral relationship between the two countries, any development which impacts on the wellbeing of the Indian fishing community pursuing their livelihoods in the waters between the two countries, is of the utmost concern to Sri Lanka. The Government of Sri Lanka is therefore committed to ascertaining the facts behind the incidents. While continuing with further inquiries, the Sri Lankan authorities have requested that additional information be made available by the Indian side. Both sides agreed that the use of force cannot be justified under any circumstances.

The two sides noted that the Joint Statement on Fishing Arrangements of 26th October 2008, which had put in place practical arrangements to deal with bona fide fishermen crossing the International Maritime Boundary Line (IMBL), had led to a decrease in incidents. They agreed on the need to discuss arrangements based on the current situation so as to strengthen the safety and security of the fishermen.

Accordingly, it was decided that the next meeting of the Joint Working Group on Fishing would be convened at an early date, which would, inter-alia, address various issues relating to fishing by the two sides. The Joint Working Group would also address the proposed Memorandum of Understanding on development and cooperation in the field of fisheries. It was decided as well to enhance and promote contacts between the fishermen's associations on both sides, since such contacts have proved to be mutually beneficial."





How many elections have come and gone! Now we have another around the corner. Apparently no country in the world has more democracy than this country. One of the smallest countries in the world we have the biggest elected cabinet with ten 'senior' ministers on full pay and perks enjoying their luxurious retirement at the expense of the poor people of this country. They are bribed; every single MP and cabinet minister is bought (commissions, protection from the law, tax free luxury vehicles etc.) at great expense to the Treasury. There are hundreds of Presidential advisors doing nothing more than twiddling their thumbs and getting richly paid for it. This is a ludicrous caricature of democracy.

The glaring example of this democracy is the ugly imprisonment of the presidential candidate, General Sarath Fonseka. The more they try to smear his image the more the people love him. They removed his freedom by putting him in jail. By removing his seat in the parliament they insulted him and deprived him (and also all those who voted for him) of civic rights. They removed his medals and cashiered him. They stopped his pension to starve him to death. They keep on dragging his name in the mud by concocting all sorts of silly charges against him and taking him to kangaroo courts again and again. Finally they removed even his clothes and put him in a jumper. Now only his life is left. The issue is not the 'white flags'. The issue is that democracy and the rule of law are at death's door. In this country there is neither the rule of law nor the implementation of the will of the people. 'Vermin' get away with any kind of wrong doing; the law does not apply to them. In fact the law is changed to accommodate a Chief Minister to become also a Basnayake Nilame. Double murderesses, drug distributors sentenced to capital punishment and shoplifters go scot free with a Presidential pardon!

With the 18-A, I think, we have crossed the Rubicon and we have entered the era of running the country at the whims and fancies of just one man. His will displaces the will of the people and his wish displaces the Constitution. Posts in the judiciary are filled with servile yes-men. All the top posts in all the forces and government ministries, departments and the commissions are filled with such weaklings without integrity or independence. The Taliban-like narrow minded, hypocritical bogus-morality rules are now being mooted! The future for democracy is bleak and hopeless indeed. The space for democracy in this country is diminishing day by day and soon it will be only a word in the dictionary.

The present regime is neither SLFP nor UNP, both being left in the lurch with the honest citizens of this country. It consists of all the stinking rotten eggs of all the parties, UNP, SLFP, JVP, leftists and so on. All of them have been bought off and they have betrayed the ideals of their parties, compromised their personal integrity, and sold their souls for a fistful of filthy lucre like any common street walker. The present UNP, whether led by Ranil or by Sajith, will not be able to topple the government and save democracy. For the present UNP is an empty shell. Not only has it lost most of its men but also its ideology and plans. The government is implementing "Regaining Sri Lanka" better than UNP ever could. "Mahinda Chintanaya" is no more; it was only a political gimmick. The people are groaning under the weight of the national debt, nearly two hundred thousand per head, while the legislating parasites are living it up and brazenly stealing without a qualm. The only solution to the present predicament, in my humble opinion, is for the remnant UNPers (only those with clean hands) with the JVP and some SLFPers with more or less clean hands to join in an alliance with the Tamils and Muslims of good will to form an Opposition with The General in the lead. They must give up all kinds of selfish horse trading for positions, pelf and power and will have to work out an agreement among themselves almost amounting to a constitution where the poor of the country are at the centre of concern and at the top of their priorities not their personal aggrandizement. We do not want to be the miracle of Asia; we only want three square meals a day, work, health, education and a little bit of leisure with peace and contentment. But these things can be achieved only if there is really, actually and truly democracy and 'good governance'.

Both democracy and the General are in the same boat; both of them are at death's door. The General has now only his life left and Democracy is on its last legs. But there is only one General in this country. Mothers will whisper his name into the ears of the new born and for generations to come he will be The General, no other. They will never succeed in removing him from the hearts of the people or from the history of this country. Common people are aware of the shameless injustices done to The General. People with unbelieving eyes are watching helplessly at the tragedy enacted before them. They are not worried about his uniform or his medals; they have seen pictures of the glorious scars of war on his tough, tall and straight body more beautiful than glittering pieces of metal. For them it is incomprehensible how his pension can be stopped; the pension he earned with sweat and toil for forty years; not something he earned fooling around in the parliament for five years while stealthily stealing the national wealth!

Will the People call upon, pressure and force all the politicians of the opposition to form a powerful Alliance with The General in the lead to rise up and save democracy and the country? The People should and who are the People if not we?





National pride turned into a "rally of abuse" for tennis player Li Na after she shouted at Chinese spectators not to teach her how to play tennis during Saturday's tense final against Kim Clijsters in the Australian Open.

While 28-year-old Li, regarded as a rare rebel in tightly controlled Chinese sporting scene, became a "national hero" after scoring brilliant victories against top pros in the tournament and becoming the first Chinese woman to reach Grand Slam final, her outburst in the summit clash, which she lost, did not go down well at home.

As she came under pressure from Clijsters in the second set, Li appeared fed up with shouts from Chinese fans giving her advise how to play, prompting her to complain to the British umpire saying "can you tell the Chinese spectators not to teach me how to play tennis?"

"There were a lot of people coaching me. It was really loud," Li said at the press conference in Chinese after the match.

Her remarks upset Chinese micro bloggers with some questioning her attitude, state run 'Global Times' newspaper said in a report.

"While being a Chinese, Li asked a foreigner (British umpire) to demand the Chinese spectators stop shouting, making her just like an outsider," it quoted a micro blogger as saying.

The Southern Metropolis Daily in its commentary said Li's request to the umpire represented her fragile state of mind in a game where she could not control her temper, and also had a bad impact on China's international image.

Commenting on the reaction, Zhou Xiaozheng, a professor of sociology at Renmin University of China, said that a nationalist mindset was to blame for the problem. "Chinese spectators have always attached the result of a sports game to the national image," Zhou said.

Apparently it was particularly sensitive for Li as she quit official tennis in China after she went ahead and married her coach Jiang Shan much against the advises of the officials of Chinese Tennis establishment.

And the coaching tips from the spectators apparently aimed at putting her husband who was present during the match in a tight spot, did not go down well with Li.

At the end of the match, she made it a point to make an emotional complement to her husband saying, "It doesn't matter if you are fat or skinny, handsome or ugly, I will always follow you, always love you."

Li's characteristic style remarks however drew praise from editorial of the Global Times where the official daily said Chinese should actually learn from "Li Na's personality".

"Some foreign media outlets regard Li as a 'Chinese tennis rebel'. Indeed, she has many characteristics to validate this new title - she wears a rose tattoo on her chest and employs her husband as personal coach; she first thanked her sponsor at the award ceremony, and even asked the chair umpire during the tense second set: "Can you tell the Chinese don't teach me how to play tennis?," the editorial said. (PTI)

"In fact, such "rebelliousness" didn't upset the Chinese, because they've been fed up with clichés like "thank my leaders" or "thank my comrades.

Furthermore, being reminded to behave with great care is probably the last thing they want while watching a game. Chinese society and its people need to relax. They need a little humour and open-mindedness to cope with small mistakes, and imperfection should be allowed from time to time.

"Being excessively "correct" can lead to untruthfulness and pressure. China is not as "correct" as it was in the past. However, isn't this China more lovely and real?" the editorial said.

"The story of Li Na becoming the first Asian to play in a Grand Slam singles final has enriched the narrative of China's rise. Nowadays, many Chinese like Li are going global and pursuing their life goals with their vivid personality. They are not obliged to represent China, but they demonstrate a more natural and realistic profile of the nation.

"China is neither perfect nor wicked - it is just a complicated, colossal developing country. Each and every one among us is a part of this complicated entity. With this thought, we can relax and be ourselves on many occasions," it said. (PTI)





The Foundation for Civilian Bravery, established by Act No. 4 of 2009, is now accepting, from citizens of Sri Lanka, nominations for Awards for Civilian bravery, conferred by the Foundation for the year 2011.

The criteria applicable:

Citizens of Sri Lanka who courageously without concern of danger to life or limb-volunteer to save others whose lives are imperiled by tide, fire, mine, and rough seas and similar dangers occasioned by natural disaster or man made disaster will be conferred upon them the, Budal Na Gold Award and Silver Medals for Civilian bravery.

Corporate sector is eligible to apply for "Civilian Bravery Corporate award" for project or activity attempting meaningfully to save life of others or a species of life from extinction which law does not qualify, innovative and courageous projects will rank priority.

A distinguished panel of judges will select awardees on interview and on supporting evidence available to them.

The following conditions apply:

Closing Date: 31 March 2011.

Applicable periods: 1st January 2010 to 31 December 2010.

Applications may be submitted personally by the candidate or anyone who is acquainted with the facts of the incident and in case of corporate sector, by an authorized officer.

The responsibility for providing evidence lies with the applicant and the candidate.





Consistent growth in sales across the chain and the expected seasonal spike in December 2010 have combined to generate robust nine-month fiscal results for Odel, Sri Lanka's public quoted fashion retailer.

In results released to the Colombo Stock Exchange this week, the group said it had posted pre-tax profit of Rs 287 million for the nine months ending 31st December 2010, reflecting a growth of 61 percent over the corresponding period of last year.

Profit after tax for the period topped Rs 176 million, up 43 percent YoY, while turnover was up 42 percent to Rs 2.49 billion, the filing said.

The nine months reviewed encompasses two quarters as a public listed company, consequent to OdeL's milestone initial public offer of July 2010.

Pre and post tax profits for the three months ending 31st December 2010, traditionally one of the strongest quarters on account of the festive season, reflected increases of 56 percent and 35 percent respectively over the third quarter of 2009-10.

The group's basic earnings per share for the full nine months grew by 43 percent to Rs 1.29 from 90 cents for the first three quarters of the previous year.

Commenting on these figures, Odel founder and CEO Otara Gunewardene said, "We are confident of seeing this positive trend continue with the increase in tourism and planned development of the country."

Two new Odel stores expected to come on line before March 31, 2011 will take the store network in Sri Lanka to 15.

Odel has declared an interim dividend of 25 cents per share in respect of the year 2010/2011 based on the current performance of the group. The Odel share was offered at Rs 15 at the company's IPO of 16.7 million ordinary shares, and commenced trading on the Colombo Stock Exchange on 4th August. The share was trading at Rs 46 as at January 20, 2011, up 206 percent from its issue price.





"The crowd support during the 1996 World Cup final was amazing. Everyone whom we met in Lahore said that they wanted us to win. They cheered us throughout and Arjuna very rightly thanked the Pakistani public for their support in the post match presentation," Sanath Jayasuriya, the Most Valuable Player of the 1996 World Cup described the support the Sri Lankan team got in Pakistan, during the final against Australia on 17 March, 1996.

The unprecedented support the team got that day made the Sri Lankans feel that they were indeed playing at home and ever since that famous victory, Sri Lankan teams have been popular visitors to Pakistan.

What made the Pakistanis support Arjuna Ranatunga's side so much? It wasn't just South Asian solidarity. For one thing, they dislike the Australians and Sri Lanka had gone onto beat India in the semi-final after the quarter-final clash between the arch-rivals had been won by India in Bangalore. But more than any of these, such was the brand of cricket Aravinda de Silva and Sanath Jayasuriya were dishing out that it was hard not to fall in love with them.

"I would like to thank Wasim and Azar for coming over to Colombo when we were in trouble," Ranatunga said, to thunderous applause, thanking the joint India-Pakistan team that played an exhibition game in Colombo after Australia and West Indies pulled out from their group games due to security reasons. "I would like to thank the Pakistani people as well. Thank you for supporting us," Ranatunga added.

The picture above is a section of Pakistani supporters cheering the Sri Lankan side.

The banner said;

'There was an umpire named Hair

Who has a body of an overgrown bear

With a brain as small as a Hare

Who treated Sri Lankans unfair'.

Sunil Wettimuny, the eldest of the three Wettimuny brothers who represented Sri Lanka in cricket, was in Lahore to witness the final. He was a pilot with Air Lanka and had taken the chartered flight to Lahore as several VIPs from Colombo flew to witness the historic match.

"I have never seen a nation supporting another nation like that," Wettimuny recalled. "It will go down in the history of sports. I don't think they would have supported their own country that way. If a Sri Lankan went shopping that day, he would not have had to pay for shopping. They gave goods free. At restaurants they gave food free. The only thing you had to say was that you were Sri Lankan. We wouldn't' have done that for Pakistan, but Pakistan did it to us," Wettimuny added.

Wettimuny, who played in two cricket World Cups in 1975 and 1979 speaks of a special bond between players of Pakistan and Sri Lanka. "Some of these Pakistani cricketers are so close to us. You ask Sidat (Wettimuny), he will tell you and some of them are like brothers to us. If I meet Imran now, he'll treat me like a brother and we feel so close," he added.

Those who governed and played the game in the pre-Test era are also quick to acknowledge the support Pakistan gave Sri Lanka to gain Test status and the efforts of one man, Abdul Hafeez Kardar is remembered with reverence.

Wettimuny explained how Kardar, as the President of the Pakistan Cricket Board, pushed Sri Lanka's case for full membership of ICC. "Although we performed at every given opportunity to be taken note of, I feel we owe a lot to Abdul Hafeez Kardar, the former Pakistan Board President. If not for him, they would have stopped us from getting Test status. When we went onto win the World Cup in 1996 it proved that Kardar was right," Wettimuny added.

Neil Perera, who served at the Board of Control for 25 long years in various capacities, including as Secretary is one to always acknowledge Kardar's role.

"Mr. Kardar has been bringing our case at the ICC level very forcefully in the 1970s. But unfortunately for us, Australia or England vetoed our chances on each occasion. But he kept on pushing our case and initiated the Ali Bhuto Trophy between our Under-19 sides," Perera said.

Wettimuny is one to have played in the Ali Bhutto Trophy and he recalled an experience during one of those tours. "Traveling in Pakistani is not that easy and when we were playing for the Ali Bhuto Trophy, Mr. Kardar sent an Air Foce plane to Multan for us to fly. It was a C130 big Air Force plane and he went out of his way to help Sri Lanka."

"I wonder whether we would have got Test status when we eventually got it, if not for Abdul Hafeez Kardar. When we won the ICC Trophy, it was the icing on the cake for Kardar. He really backed us."

Perera recalls how forcefully Kardar pushed Sri Lanka's case at an ICC meeting at Lord's, after Sri Lanka went onto beat Canada to qualify for the Prudential World Cup and then beat India in a group game.

"Sadly, India were a little hesitant in supporting our case for full membership," Perera revealed. "They were eventually compelled to back us because Pakistan was going out of their way to support us. We couldn't even find money to go for ICC meeting in London those days and I remember Mr. Robert Senanayake (Former President of the Board) spent his own money and attended these meetings. At one of those meetings, Abdul Hafeez Kardar spoke forcefully and stressed that both India and Pakistan were playing regularly against Sri Lanka and that the Sri Lankans were as good as Indians or the Pakistanis," Perera recalled.

"He went onto say that if the ICC doesn't grant us Test status, it's nothing other than racial discrimination. This was after continuous vetoing of our case by Australia and England. I feel that we owe a lot to Abdul Hafeez Kardar, but sadly very few people realize his contributions."

Kardar is considered the father figure of Pakistan cricket. Having made his Test debut for India before partition he became the first Test captain of Pakistan in 1952. He went onto lead his country in 23 Tests. Kardar is an Oxford Blue and represented Warwickshire in county cricket. After retiring, he became the Chairman of Selectors and went onto become President of the Cricket Board.

One month after Sri Lanka won the Wills World Cup, Mr. Kardar passed away.

On his death, cricket's bible Wisden went onto comment, "he ruthlessly modernized the organization of the Pakistani game and many of the themes he was advocating in the 1970s have become common currency among modern administrators: the need to do away with unwieldy committees, to break the post-imperial dominance of Lord's and to expand the game in Asia. He was an early advocate of neutral umpires. Little of this was well received by his colleagues in the ICC at the time. In later years, he removed himself from cricket and his last public role was as Pakistan's Ambassador to Switzerland. Diplomacy may not have come easily to him. Imran Khan said: After Kardar's retirement, Pakistan cricket was thrown to the wolves, the cricket bureaucrats whose progeny still rule the game."





Millennium consumption goals (MCG) could help make our development path more sustainable, by focusing on the 1.4 billion people in the richest 20 percentile of the world's population. They consume over 80% of global output, or 60 times more than the poorest 20 percentile. Instead of viewing the rich as a problem, they should be persuaded to contribute to the solution. The MCG will complement the Millennium development goals (MDG) designed to help the world's poor. The MCG need not be mandatory targets, but rather a set of benchmarks to be achieved by a combination of voluntary actions by sustainable consumers and producers, supported by enabling government policies.

Household consumption drives modern economies, but unsustainable consumption, production and resource exploitation have led to multiple crises that threaten the future survival of humanity. Climate change is now considered the ultimate threat multiplier which will exacerbate the formidable problems of development we already face – like poverty, hunger, illness, water and energy scarcities, and conflict.

The MCG pathway

While I have been arguing for MCG for many years in closed meetings, the time was ripe to formally propose the idea at the recent UN sessions preparing for the forthcoming UN Conference on Sustainable Development UNCSD 2012 in Brazil.

There are many advantages to this complementary path to global sustainability. First, the rich live in both developed and developing countries, so the idea cuts across country boundaries, thus reducing the potential for deadlock due to nationalistic self-interest. Second, since they account for over 80% of consumption and pollution (including carbon emissions), small shifts towards more sustainable consumption can significantly reduce the burden on the environment and free up more resources to raise the consumption of the poor. Third, by relying on influencing the behaviour of large numbers of individual households, the approach has the potential to yield quicker results compared to top down government policies and large, long term industrial investments. Fourth, it mobilizes, empowers and links up sustainable consumers and producers (many of whom operate global supply chains) into a virtuous cycle that could spread quickly. In fact, the focus is on setting targets for ACTION NOW by civil society and business, without having to wait for governments, which move glacially. This process also puts pressure on leaders who lack the political will to act quickly and decisively.

Basically, the MCG approach is only one element (albeit an important one!) of the overall goal of sustainable development. It is not just a nice catchy slogan, but has substance and a practical methodology underlying it. It is part of broader ongoing initiatives on sustainable consumption and production (SCP) and the green economy. In turn, SCP is an essential step on the path to sustainable development, and may be linked to a holistic and practical framework for making development more sustainable, called Sustainomics, which I proposed 20 years ago at the 1992 Rio Earth Summit. It would be fitting indeed if the MCG idea would become part of the agreements and programmes that will emerge from UNCSD 2012 (also called Rio+20)!

Some possible MCG target areas include: conservation of scarce resources like energy and water, efficient transport, sustainable dwellings, healthier diets and obesity reduction, healthier lifestyles and greater fitness, progressive taxation and taxes on luxury goods, sustainable livelihoods, reduced workweek and improved working conditions, etc. Some types of expenditures undertaken by governments on behalf of consumers, also need to be targetted – e.g., the US$1.5 trillion per year spent on armaments worldwide.

Current situation: economic, social and environmental bubbles

The MCG are needed because the world is currently facing economic, social, and environmental risks, best characterized by a "bubble" metaphor based on greed and false expectations. A few enjoy immediate gains while the vast unsuspecting majority would pay huge future costs. These threats can interact catastrophically, unless they are addressed urgently and in an integrated fashion.

First, the ongoing economic recession was caused by the collapse of a greed-driven asset bubble which inflated financial values well beyond the true value of underlying economic resources.

Second, a social bubble based on poverty and inequity is growing despite economic growth, excluding billions of poor from access to productive resources and basic necessities, like food, water and energy. Poverty has been exacerbated by the economic recession, worsening unemployment and access to survival needs.

Finally, mankind faces the bubble of environmental harm and resource shortages, due to myopic economic activities that severely degrade natural assets (air, land and water) on which human well being ultimately depends. Climate change is just one grim global manifestation of this threat, and ironically, the worst impacts will fall on the poor who are least responsible for the problem.

Unfortunately, human responses to these issues have been uncoordinated and inadequate. Governments quickly found over US$ five trillion for stimulus packages, to revive shaky economies. Meanwhile, only about US$100 billion per year are devoted to alleviate poverty, and far less to combat climate change. The recession has further dampened enthusiasm to address the more serious long term social and environmental issues.

Clearly, world leaders lost a major opportunity to allocate a much larger share of the stimulus packages to green investments, sustainable livelihoods, education and health, and safety nets for the poor, instead of mainly propping up banks and promoting unsustainable consumption. We should now seek to recapture the momentum for longer term change, by promoting sustainable consumption and production, including the setting of millennium consumption goals for the rich to complement the MDG for the poor.

Sustainable consumption and production

Anthropogenic carbon emissions exemplify modern resource over-exploitation. The arguments below apply equally well to other scarce resources like energy, water and food.

The consumption of 1.4 billion richer humans accounts for about 80% of total carbon emissions. Making their consumption patterns more sustainable will reduce carbon emissions (and other types of resource use) significantly – e.g., using energy saving light bulbs, washing laundry at lower temperatures, eating less meat, planting trees or using more fuel efficient cars. Such actions will not only save money, but are also faster and more achievable than many so-called big technology solutions. Furthermore, families that purchase low-carbon products and services can stimulate innovation in businesses, while encouraging politicians to take radical steps towards a lower carbon world. Many existing "best" practice examples can be replicated more widely, while innovative businesses are already developing the "next" practice products and services of the future.

A "virtuous cycle" of mutually supportive sustainable consumers and producers can cut across national boundaries and narrow interests. It complements the traditional top down emphasis on action by governments, who lack political will to take bold steps. Finally, the rich must share scarce resources with the many billions of poor and help them emerge from poverty. The affluent also need to set a better example that will encourage the poor to seek more sustainable growth and consumption paths.

The affluent can maintain or improve their quality of life, while reducing the burden on the environment, using existing technologies and policies. Several leading multinational companies have already set themselves challenging targets for reducing their carbon emissions, waste discharges, and energy and water use, in the coming decades. This is a welcome contrast to the continuing reluctance of world leaders to boldly address pressing climate change and sustainable development issues. Progressive business leaders have also pledged to overcome barriers faced by consumers, including the availability and affordability of sustainable products, lack of information and product labeling, and a sense of powerlessness. The same advertising that now promotes over-consumption and waste could be used to encourage more sustainable consumption. Over a period of time, social values and habits could be changed to favour sustainable behaviour, in the same way that public attitudes have shifted against tobacco smoking in recent decades.

* First, making development more sustainable (MDMS) becomes the main goal. It is a step-by-step method that empowers people to take immediate action. It is also practical because many unsustainable activities are easy to recognize and eliminate NOW. The MCG and sustainable consumption-production path epitomize this approach.

* Second, the three key dimensions of the sustainable development triangle (economic, social, and environmental) must be given balanced treatment. Consumers need simplified and relevant information on these aspects, to make sustainable choices, via pricing, advertising, labeling, and the media.

* Third, our thinking should transcend traditional boundaries. It is essential to replace unsustainable values like greed with sound ethical principles, especially among the young. People must be made aware that problems like climate change span the whole planet, play out over centuries, and concern every human being on earth. Stakeholders need to work together to meet the common threat – more than ever, government needs the support of civil society and business. Trans-disciplinary analysis will help producers find innovative solutions that cut across conventional disciplines. Sustainable consumption and production requires such a revolution in thinking and behaviour.

* Finally, full life cycle analysis using integrated tools is required. In particular, producers need to re-examine the entire value chain from raw material extraction to consumer end use and disposal, from the economic, social and environmental perspectives. This will help identify hot spots where innovation can improve production sustainability, reform pricing, and yield accurate labeling information (e.g., carbon footprint). The principles of industrial ecology would help to minimize both resource inputs and waste outputs. Many excellent examples of sustainable consumption and production already exist worldwide, based on the application of known technologies and policies.

Concluding Ideas

Ordinary citizens and businesses are often ahead of political leaders in terms of willingness to address sustainable development issues, including climate change. Given the many existing best practice examples, we do not need to wait for new technologies, laws or infrastructure. Consumers can be encouraged to behave more sustainably without lowering their quality of life, starting with millennium consumption goals for the rich that parallel the millennium development goals for the poor.

All human beings are stakeholders, when it comes to sustainable development and climate change. Consumers and producers can and must strive to make development more sustainable — economically, socially and environmentally. By acting together now, we will make the planet a better and safer place for our children and grand children.

About the author:

Prof. Mohan Munasinghe shared the 2007 Nobel Prize for Peace, as Vice Chair of the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC-AR4). Currently, he is Chairman of the Munasinghe Inst. of Development (MIND), Colombo; Professor of Sustainable Development at the University of Manchester, UK; Distinguished Guest Professor at Peking University, China; and Honorary Senior Advisor to the Sri Lanka Govt.

He has earned post-graduate degrees in engineering, physics and development economics from Cambridge University (UK), Massachusetts Institute of Technology (USA), and McGill University and Concordia University (Canada). Prof. Munasinghe has also received several honorary doctorates (honoris causa). Highlights from 40 years of distinguished public service include working as Senior Energy Advisor to the President of Sri Lanka, Advisor to the United States Presidents Council on Environmental Quality, and Senior Advisor/Manager, World Bank.

He has taught as Visiting Professor at several leading universities worldwide, and won many international prizes and medals for his research and its applications. Prof. Munasinghe has authored 92 books and over three hundred technical papers on economics, sustainable development, climate change, power, energy, water resources, transport, environment, disasters, and information technology. He is a Fellow of several internationally recognized Academies of Science, and serves on the editorial boards of over a dozen professional journals.





The launch of the British School of Commerce (BSC), a division of the London School of Commerce Group of Colleges, UK will take place today (1) at the BSC campus, Colombo.

The London School of Commerce (LSC) UK, the Associate College of the University of Wales Institute, Cardiff, provides globally recognized British degree courses to over 6000 students from 130 countries. Having the Head Office and the main campus in London with Campuses in Belgrade, Nairobi, Dhaka and Kuala Lumpur, LSC now embarks on opening its fifth Division in Colombo.

In keeping with the vision of its parent institution, BSC aims to enable all Sri Lankans to pursue cost effective education with our MBA program priced at a very competitive 465,000 rupees. Students also have the option to transfer to London or any of our campuses worldwide at no additional fee. During the course of study, students have access to over 70,000 online materials and learn from the experience of our highly qualified local and European faculty.

BSC offers a variety of Postgraduate and Undergraduate Degrees in Business, Management, Tourism, Hospitality and Information Technology, all awarded by the University of Wales Institute, Cardiff.





The All Share Price Index closed at 7,174.87, down 0.24 percent (17.62 points) while the Milanka Price Index of more liquid stocks closed at 7,134.27, down 0.43 percent (31.05 points) according to stock exchange provisional figures.

Turnover was 3.1 billion rupees.

Thakshila Hulangamuwa of Asha Phillips Securities said retail investors were dominant in the day's trading.

The group also said December 2010 quarter net profit fell 16 percent to 93 million rupees while sales rose seven percent to 2.9 billion rupees from a year ago.

There were two crossings of Royal Ceramic shares at 160.00 and the stock closed at 160.20, down 2.70 rupees.

Watawala Plantations closed at 30.10, down 1.60 rupees. The company's December 2010 quarter profit rose three percent to 189 million rupees from a year ago with group sales stagnant at 1.7 billion rupees, a stock exchange filing said. - LBO





Aspirations Education (AE) an international career guidance and student placement service center in Sri Lanka recently celebrated its sixth year anniversary at the counseling center a company spokesperson said. The center currently works with over 100 prominent universities and institutes in Australia, UK, New Zealand, USA, Canada, Malaysia, India and Singapore.

With the education industry in Sri Lanka being in the spotlight with local universities and the government's attention towards international education, and Sri Lanka's highly literate population with a positive attitude towards solid education, there is immense potential for the industry to grow rapidly.

Speaking about the current education options and Aspirations Education credo, Ajith Abeysekera, Chairman Aspirations Education, "Aspirations Education was born out of a resolute commitment to be a fountain of inspiration to the Sri Lankan community to help them realize their aspirations. Our core business model is providing career guidance and counseling services to students who wish to pursue their education overseas".

He added,"Students who aspire to study abroad should be given proper guidance at the right time. They should be able to get accurate and authentic information with regard to options available. Such guidance will help students with lower costs, increased chances of university acceptance, cultural adaptability and even increased chances of financial assistance. This may also improve students' profile to obtaining visas and most of all enhance career opportunities in today's global economy. Proper counseling in the areas of both education and careers help students pick the university that best meets their needs maximizing the chances of financial assistance and career opportunities. Comprehensive guidance will not mislead students at the crucial juncture in their lives, which can break or make their future; this is what Aspirations is all about".

International education provides students to be more fluent in other languages better understand other cultures and have a greater appreciation of their own, are able to better determine their career choices and begin building resumes well before college. Another very real practical benefit is the fact that corporates place a high value on applicants who have had international education experiences, which opens admissions options to the most respected institutions. Once students do go to college, they are more committed than most of their peers and the demand among many professions for global skills and experience in cross-culture awareness open doors for more career options.

Another special service through the center is its free operational services. Describing further Ms. Deepamala Abeysekera, General Manager Aspirations Education, "We ensure that all student applications are handled efficiently and all correspondence with foreign institutions are conducted in an ethical and timely manner. Our expertise in preparing Visa documentation, too, is widely acknowledged by our students and is underscored by our high rate of Visa approvals. In addition, we provide information on study programs conducted in Sri Lanka and other countries, which would enable students to obtain exemptions for subjects, subsequently saving millions of rupees and valuable time".

Approved and authorized by the Australian High Commission to assess and issue Pre Visa Assessments (PVA), Aspirations Education is registered in the UCAS customer database and is permitted to process the application via UCAS. The center has been trained and certified as a Singapore Education Specialist by Government owned Singapore Education. It's also a pioneer member of the British Education Representatives Association in Sri Lanka, (BERA) established with the British Council.





Ceylon Cold Stores PLC recorded a 7 percent increase in net profits for the December quarter amounting to Rs. 45.4 million while net profits for the nine months ending December 2010, grew 102 percent to Rs. 161.4 million, interim financial results of the company showed.

Revenue for the December quarter rose 12 percent to 4.24 billion while total revenue for the nine month period ended December 2010 grew 15 percent to Rs. 12.31 billion.





Union Bank of Colombo Ltd is planning to carve out a niche for itself by catering to the financial needs of the country's small and medium enterprises (SMEs), long neglected by the banking sector, and its CEO Anil Amarasuriya said the bank was not waiting for SMEs to visit the bank was proactively reaching out.

The bank is planning to go public through an initial public offering to raise Rs. 1.1 billion and bolster its capital and satisfy a Central Bank directive to be listed.

The bank's recently announced Rights Issue was oversubscribed by 4 times while the Private Placement was oversubscribed by 3 times ( raising Rs. 2.7 billion in total) and Amarasuriya said with the IPO, which was still being approved by the regulator, the banks capital would be in excess of Rs. 5 billion within the next few years.

"Unaudited profits for the last quarter has reached Rs. 150 million and this is the first time the bank has recorded a profit in excess of Rs. 150 million in its 15 year history," Amarasuriya said speaking to The Island Financial Review.

The bank has 21 branches around the country and plans to set up 10 more this year.

"The new branches would be a drag on profits but we expect them to breakeven in a few years," Amarasuriya said.

Going forward, the bank will attempt to carve out a niche for itself by focusing exclusively on the SME sector.

"We took a decision that in order for a bank of our size to do well, we would have to create a niche for ourselves and so we would be focusing a lot on the SME sector. At the moment about 50 percent of the bank's loan book is SME credit and we hope to increase this. We would like to have a credit mix of 60 percent SME/retail and 40 percent corporate," Amarasuriya said.

He said the bank reaches out to SME businesses instead of waiting to be approached. Officials of the bank go as far as preparing feasibility reports and project reports of an SME for internal purposes.

"We go out into the market visiting SMEs. We find out their requirements and come up with a tailor-made package," Amarasuriya said.

Unlike, dealing with top corporates, dealing with SMEs entails a higher risk therefore interest rates are relatively higher, but Amarasuriya believes rates could come down further as the economy grew, and be more or less in line with interest rates of other countries in the region.

Results available for the first nine months of 2010 showed Union Bank's net interest income increased by 62 percent to Rs. 546.3 million while its net profit increased 118 percent to Rs. 109.07 million.

Net loans and advances increased by 23 percent to Rs. 9.2 billion while deposits increased by 14 percent to Rs. 13.6 billion. The banks investment in government securities increased by 81 percent to Rs. 3.48 billion while its non-performing loans increased by 11 percent to Rs. 1.06 billion.

The bank's total capital base at the end of the September 2010 quarter amounted to Rs. 3.52 billion.





A spokesman for the organizers appealed to all journalists and the general public to join in the protest and deliver a strong message to the perpetrators of the cowardly act, that violence cannot silence the media and their bounden duty to inform the masses.

A spokesman for LankaeNews told The Island that a group of persons had entered their office in Malabe around 2.00 a.m. on Monday and set it on fire, after pouring petrol all over the place.

"All computers in the office and the library containing very valuable books have been completely destroyed and the premises badly damaged, making it impossible to do any work," he said. "The neighbours had been awoken by the sound of bursting computers and informed the police. Two suspicious looking persons had been spotted close to our office on Sunday. They had been making inquiries about the movement of our staff."





Private bus operators on the Rukmalgama –Colombo (138/2) and Athurugiriya – Colombo (138/4) routes launched a strike yesterday morning in protest against the operation of 5 additional buses on the same routes. Many passengers, office workers and school children were affected due this sudden strike action.

Lanka Private Bus Owners Association (LPBOA) President Gamunu Wijeratne told The Island that the Western Province Road Passenger Transport Authority had violated the Supreme Court order and had issued five new route permits to bus owners to operate on these routes. He had sent a letter to the Chairman of the Transport Authority protesting against this illegal action.

He pointed out that the Western Province Road Passenger Transport Authority, without any tender procedures and bypassing the rules and regulations, had given the route permits which badly affects those who presently operate buses on these two routes.

When The Island contacted Western Province Transport Minister Upali Kodikara, he said that the Western Province Road Passenger Transport Authority Chairman Piyasena Dissanayaka had issued the route permits to new bus owners without his knowledge and he had made a mistake. As Chairman of the Authority he should not have given route permits because the Supreme Court has ordered that route permits be given only after calling for tenders.

Minister Kodikara said a disciplinary inquiry will be held against Piyasena Dissanayaka. He will also take immediate action to suspend the route permits of the 5 buses.





Fishmongers, currently carrying out their business at St. John's Market, are reluctant to move into the new fish market complex at Peliyagoda, which had been completed and ready for occupation last December.

According to Fisheries Minister Dr. Rajitha Senaratne, President Mahinda Rajapaksa was expected to declare open the new complex. But, due to various official duties and election related work, he could not give a date and time for the opening.

Senaratne also said some fishmongers, who visited the new complex, had shown reluctance to move into it citing various reasons.

Some traders complained that the stalls were not large enough to keep their stocks of fish, some for wholesale and the other for retail sales. There were also complaints about refrigeration and deep freezer facilities, he said.





The attack, in the wee hours of Monday Morning, on the Lankaenews office, in Malambe, came in for strong condemnation from the Campaign for Free and Fair Elections (CaFFE) and the Centre for Human Rights (CHR).

A statement from the two organizations, condemning the attack said the attack on Lankaenews office in Malambe, Sri Lanka on Monday morning, which destroyed property worth up to fifteen million rupees was the latest attack on media, right after the end of the Galle Literary Festival (GLF) when the attention of the whole world was focused on Sri Lanka. "It is not only a serious blow for media freedom and right to information but also damns our international reputation."

The statement said:

"We believe that Lankaenews played an important role in disseminating news items which were not used by main stream media for various reasons and they were unflinching in their belief of the right to information to the people.

"However due to the same reasons they have been facing intense pressure from various sections from 2006. While cartoonist and political commentator Pregeeth Ekneligoda was abducted over one year ago, many live abroad fearing for their lives. Due to frequent threats and pressure Lankaenews had to shift their office from Rajagiriya to Malambe last year and Lankaenews journalists faced grave challenges in continuing their work.

"We assure that the main reason behind these attacks were the revelations and investigations carried out by Lankaenews. From looking at the damage done it is obvious that this was a well denned attack carried out to inflict maximum damage.

"The challenge before us now is to assure the safety of journalists who are working to disseminate information to the people, CaFFE and CHR also hope that Lankaenews will recover from this latest attempt to silence them as they have done after such previous attempts and urge the citizens who believe in democratic values to come forward and protect media institutions like Lankaenews."





The final and the consolation final of the Colombo North Zonal Under-13 Basketball Tournament which were to be played at Ananda College yesterday were rescheduled for today due to bad weather.

The consolation final between Ananda College, Colombo and Colombo International School will start at 3pm, while the final between St. Joseph's College, Darley Road and Gateway International School will get underway at 4.30pm.(RS)





A much-awaited bill to enable private universities, in particular foreign providers, to set up in Sri Lanka is expected to be presented to the cabinet in February.

"The Ministry of Higher Education has finalised all aspects of the bill which will soon be submitted for cabinet approval," Permanent Secretary to the Ministry of Higher Education, Dr Sunil Nawarathne (pictured), told University World News in an exclusive interview.

The government had anticipated presenting the wide-ranging bill to parliament in January, but it has been delayed by the 2011 budget debate.

Providing a preview of the Higher Education Quality Assurance, Accreditation and Quality Framework Bill, as it is officially titled, Nawarathne said: "First and foremost the bill will allow non-state [private] universities to be set up within the country."

This new provision will be crucial for providers from the country's private sector as well as foreign universities interested in venturing into Sri Lanka.

Already some 24 foreign higher education institutions from the United Kingdom's University of Liverpool to Thailand's Asian Institute of Technology have shown an interest in setting up universities here.

However the ministry said it would initially allow 10 to 15 foreign universities, in order to main high standards of quality.

The government has avoided referring to such institutions as private universities as some sectors of the public are fearful private universities could 'commercialise' higher education, which is considered to be a service rather than a commodity that can be 'bought'.

'Education is not a commodity', 'Stop privatisation of universities' and 'Down with degree stores' have been popular slogans among hard-line socialist parties that have opposed educational reforms.

However as these groups have lost ground in parliament, and the government has vowed it will not privatise state universities, parliamentary opposition to the ambitious new reforms is unlikely to derail legislation.

"The second salient feature [of the Bill] would be to put in place a mechanism for quality assurance and to grant accreditation to both state and non-state universities," Nawarathne said.

The government hopes to appoint a regulator for the hitherto unregulated higher education sector, which currently lacks an independent authority or proper mechanisms to scrutinise higher education institutions.

The new bill refers to an independent Quality Assurance and Accreditation Council not only for universities but for all higher education bodies. It will be entrusted with regulation and the implementation of a Qualification Framework for Higher Education.

In addition, the bill proposes the unbundling of the functions of the higher education ministry into three divisions - state, professional and non-state.

The State Division will supervise the existing 18 public universities while the Non-State Division will monitor private universities. The former will ensure students who cannot afford to go private have access to higher education in accordance with government policy, while the latter will ensure the profitability and quality of 'non-state' universities.

The Professional Division will rank and grade courses offered by professional bodies such as the institutes for Marketing, for Financial and Management Accountants, and for Incorporated Engineers. Local chapters of foreign professional bodies such as the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants, the Charted Institute of Management Accountants and the Charted Institute of Marketing, will come under this division.

However it is the private universities provisions in the bill that have attracted the most attention and sparked unrest in the country last year. Sri Lanka also hopes to attract more foreign students by upgrading state-run universities.

The government's aim to increase the number of foreign students to100,000 by 2020, could generate nearly Rs111 billion (US$1 billion), according to estimates, which would put the higher education sector among the top five foreign exchange earners in the country.

In the short term some 10,000 foreign students will be admitted to universities, Nawarathne said. "If we admit around 200 students more for each course during a four-year programme we will have nearly 800 per course. So I believe within two to three years time we would be able to easily achieve this target."

Minister of Higher Education, SB Dissanayake, has an ambitious goal to beat Singapore and Malaysia as hub for education in Asia.

To attract foreign students the ministry has already earmarked six universities - Colombo, Jayawardenepura, Kelaniya, Peradeniya, Ruhuna and Moratuwa - to be upgraded to world-class international universities during a first phase, expected to begin this year after the enactment of the new bill. Three more universities - Rajarata, Jaffna and Eastern - will be upgraded later.





Sri Lanka Under-19 took a 2-0 lead over their England counterparts in the five-match Youth ODI series, as their top order batsmen sizzled before a clinical performance in the field, brought them a huge 137 run win in the second Youth ODI played at Colts Grounds, on Sunday.

After deciding to bat first, half-centuries by Ramith Rambukwella, Shehan Jayasuriya and Dananjaya de Silva powered Sri Lanka Under-19 to a commanding 325 for six wickets in their allotted 50 overs.

Later, Bhanuka Rajapaksha triggered a top order collapse taking two wickets in consecutive balls before spinner Amila Aponsu wrapped up the late order with a four wicket haul to seal the victory in the 41st over as England Under-19 were bowled out for 188 runs.

In a repetition of his bowling feats in the first Youth ODI, Bhanuka Rajapaksha accounted for the first two wickets in successive deliveries. Rajapaksha who shared the new ball with Sanitha de Mel on Sunday had Sam Wood caught by Angelo Jayasinghe for three runs in the last ball of his second over. When he came to bowl the first ball of his third over he did exactly what a spectator asked for, removing Daniel Bell-Drummond for 17 runs. England lost their first two wickets for 34 runs. From thereon it was one way traffic as Sri Lankan fielders backed good bowling to take wickets at regular intervals.

Spinner Amila Aponsu picked up four wickets including the wickets of opposition skipper Lewis Gregory (25) and top scorer Ateeq Javid to restrict the tourists to 188 runs. The only resistance for England came from Ateeq Javid who scored 61 runs.

Earlier, opening pair of Shehan Jayasuriya and Ramith Rambukwella dominated the first 15 overs of powerplay to take hosts to a commanding 100 for no wickets in 14 overs. Rambukwella after receiving a life on eight runs (Sri Lanka 10) and surviving dangerously against paceman Lewis Gregory exhibited his ability to attack as he reached a T20 fashion half-century in just 30 balls.

The Royal College skipper, whom the junior selectors backed despite failing during the school season, made England pay the price for the flop, scoring 66 runs inclusive of eight fours and four huge sixes in 39 balls.









