Ananda, Dharmasoka, St. Joseph's and Dharmapala Colleges are leading their respective groups in the ongoing Inter School Under-19 Division I tournament according to the points table projected by 'The Island'.

While St. Joseph's College and Dharmapala College have completed seven out of their eight group matches Ananda and Dharmasoka have three matches each remaining in their groups.

Some formidable teams are yet to complete even a half of the number of fixtures in their respective groups and despite performing outstandingly well in the tournament some of their standings may look odd against their true stature. For example Trinity have beaten all their three counterparts outright in the tournament but they are ranked second behind Dharmasoka as they have complete just three matches.

Wesley is ranked last in their group but they have completed just two group matches.

With the two lowest ranked teams bound to be demoted to the lower division Zahira, St. Anne's, President's and Mahanama Colleges are under pressure to perform better in the remainder of the season.

In a Box

We projected this points table on the requests of enthusiast of schools engaged in the on going Inter School Division I tournament. They said they were unaware of their standings despite edging close to the conclusion of the tournament. Our numerous requests from early November last year from the Under-19 tournament secretary of the Sri Lanka Schools Cricket Association for the official points table have fell on deaf years. Whenever the Under-19 tournament secretary was contacted on this regard he had been replying that he would release the official points table to the media 'next week', which never happened from November. He places part of the blame on respective school officials who fail to submit their score sheets on time for him to prepare the points table.

This is only an attempt to shed some light on the standings of the teams and we don't take responsibility over possible slip-ups that might have happened due to rare statistical errors.





