"I know I got it made while the masses of black people are catchin' hell, but as long as they ain't free, I ain't free...I wish people would love everybody else the way they love me. It would be a better world." — Muhammad Ali

Last Friday (Jan. 15), with only 11 days to go to the 6th Presidential Election here in Sri Lanka, former Sri Lanka cricket captain Arjuna Ranatunga, who recently switched his allegiance to Gen. Sarath Fonseka, the main rival of President Mahinda Rajapaksa, addressed a media gathering at Gen. Fonseka's political office near Reid Avenue. There, in unison with another former national cricket captain Hashan Tillakaratne, the Piliyandala area United National Party (UNP) organiser, Ranatunga said: "Cricketers should not come into politics when they are still playing for the country." In this island where 'political politics' has become a laughing-stock, one has to judge closely how true this Ranatunga norm could be?

Criticising Sanath Jayasuriya's latest move to support the President, both Ranatunga and Tillakaratne showed a great concern about the possibility where cricket, one of the most successful institutions –sporting or otherwise- in the country, will see pathetic, destructive politicisation through such means. The duo entered politics, justifying their argument, after retiring from the game. "Up-coming players will get a wrong message (due to acts like Jayasuriya's) that political influence is more important than their performance in the middle to get selected to the national team in the future," Ranatunga argued.

Of other fields

The main campaigns running up to the Jan. 26 polls have already seen an unprecedented amount of participation by artistes, sportspersons and members of many other professions in support of the two main candidates, President Rajapaksa in particular. Leading cricketers Jayasuriya and Muttiah Muralitharan (and Olympic silver medalist Susanthika Jayasinghe) have extended their support to the candidature of the President, while many other top cricketers appeared in spot ads on TV promoting the President.

In various other more developed democracies in the world, it is a common practice for leading popular professionals to enter politics in support of political figures, parties and political aspirations. Here in Sri Lanka too, that has been a long running practice. Almost all leading artistes, ranging from Prof. Ediriweera Sarachchandra to Freddie Silva, have indicated their political preferences at times of important elections. Then comes the question whether active politics is unwarranted only for cricketers who are still playing cricket?

Vijaya Kumaratunga, being a cinema actor was more a politician in the latter part of his life. He went on to become the main opposition candidate of the then President R. Premadasa before his brutal assassination. So was H. R. Jothipala, who sang on 'Gam Udawa' stages in support of Premadasa. Eminent figures in the field of law in the country, Prof. G. L. Peiris, K. N. Choksy and Laxman Kadirgamar too came into active politics. Prof. Viswa Warnapala, an eminent scholar, is still a minister in the present government. Some media personnel are organisers of political parties in various electorates. In such a backdrop, what really differentiates cricket from other professions?

When this question was posed to Ranatunga, his answer was: "because the cricketers represent the country in the international stage." It was not an appropriate answer, as other professionals too –take the case of artistes- represent the country in their respective fields at various international podiums. Perhaps, the judicial and high level religious bodies should be unpoliticised and refrain from getting involved in active, petty party politics.

Dubious argument

The argument of both Ranatunga and Tillakaratne has a pertinent point. When it comes to cricket in Sri Lanka, it could be taken as one rare field, a profession where direct poiticalisation could be seen only marginally. That aspect could be taken as one plus-point of the field that automatically brings about its continued success at the highest level.

But this perspective on politics in sports is a shallow and restricted argument. One has to be politically charged if he/she is to dig deeper in search of more humane avenues of the field he/she is involved in. In realistic terms, there is nothing called completely apolitical and in many ways, it is a cunning thing as well to say one is overtly aloof from politics and just doing his/her business. Here the term politics refers not to be involved in party politics, during election times. In a broader sense, it is to struggle for the betterment of a given social structure. For that, one has to have a political vision and a broad work plan. If done in a more sensible, genuine manner, it could be the only practical way of developing a better structure for sports or any other fields.

Arjuna vs Arjuna

The best example for such an effort in the highly restricted political-sports world in this island is none other than Arjuna Ranatunga himself. Ranatunga's social image grew as a vehement activist, who spoke out for what is right, just and lawful in our sports world, especially in cricket, mainly because he did active politics representing the Sri Lanka Freedom Party of the present Rajapaksa government. Wouldn't it better and more exciting if the present skipper, Kumar Sangakkara too could emulate Arjuna and become a mouthpiece against what is unjust in sports? Then Sangakkara too would fight against extensive commercialisation of cricket, give more prominence to national level assignments than the IPLs, stand against the unlimited flow of cricketer ads and the monopoly of player agents!

Politics of that kind won't hurt sports, yet, it could only enrich it. Vijaya Kumaratunga was one time the enemy No.1 of the ruling UNP, but still his popularity has been unparalleled in the entire local cinema history. Jothipala is no exception. So was Kadirgamar. Their audiences weren't restricted only to the supporters of the political party which they promoted. People believed they were involved in politics, in their own ways, only for the betterment of the masses, not for their personal benefit.

International sports is full of such great heroes who crossed over their sporting peripheries to address grave issues, binding, maybe not only sports but other economic, social and cultural issues. The late Arthur Ashe, Mohammad Ali and Teofilo Stevenson are to name a few. They, by doing politics at deeper and a more sensible level, became players apart. Ironically, it could be mentioned here that Ranatunga, who expects a sportsperson sans political affiliation, is the richest role model we have here as the most successful political sportsman. g





