Health worker unionists plan to take their fight against what they described as the government's draconian regulations to deprive their union rights, to international level.

"We plan to take our case against a circular that restrains us exercising our union rights to the International Labour Organization and other Labour tribunals if the circular is not withdrawn by next week," Co-Convener of the Health Service Trade Union Alliance, Gamini Kumarasinghe told The Island yesterday.

Secretary to the Health Ministry through Circular No. 02-141/2007 had informed all directors, medical authorities and heads of institutions coming under the purview of the Ministry to take action against workers resorting to trade union actions, he said. This circular stipulates that workers would not be paid for the days they engage in strikes. It also instructs that if the workers in probationary stage had resorted to any union action, then their probationary period would be extended, and if they are recruited under temporary, causal or substitute basis, granting their permanency in jobs would be re-considered. If the permanent employees engage in union actions, that too would be taken into account when their increments and promotions are being considered. Such workers' applications for scholarships and foreign training would not be approved and a note would be included in their personal files. The circular also orders pruning salaries and if possible deducting the number of days wages from the next salary, Kumarasinghe said.

"This circular violates the trade union rights ensured by the Constitution. It contradicts sections of Clause No 14 of the Constitution. Establishment Code says the punitive action could be taken only after a worker is found guilty following disciplinary inquiries. There too the employees cannot be punished enmasse but disciplinary action has to be taken against each worker on individual basis," Kumarasinghe said.

The unionists had written to all respective bodies including the ministries of labour, healthcare and nutrition to the offices of Prime Minister and the President against this circular. "On January 02, the Secretary of the Ministry sought a two week time to withdraw this regulation and to put the circular on hold until then. We hope that he would do so, otherwise we'll have to fight till this suppressive law is abolished. We would wait till the 17th for a response and if there is no response, we'll kick start our campaign with a demonstration opposite the Health Ministry," Kumarasinghe said.

The HSTUA plans to take the issue to Courts and to Parliament through JVP MP Piyasiri Wijenayake who would question both the minister and secretary to the ministry at the Parliamentary Consultative Committee, he said. "In the meantime we'll take this to the ILO and prove that the Lankan Government had violated conventions of labour rights that it had ratified sometime ago."

Secretary to the Ministry, Dr. Atula Kahandaliyanage said that the issue had been directed to the Legal Advisor of the Ministry. "We want to see whether the Circular violates any labour laws as alleged by the unionists. Legal Advisor is to consult the Attorney General's Department. If there is a violation then we would take due action if not the regulations will continue and will be in effect from next week," Dr Kahandaliyanage said.





