These days the leadership qualities of the two main rivals are much touted. What should be the qualities of a leader? Is a leader in politics the same as a leader in say the Army or a co-operative society? There are undoubtedly some qualities which are required of any leader, whether he is the President of an NGO or of a government department or a leader of State. This is the ability to lead. I remember reading a comment in a personal file of a Navy Officer by his superior which said, "If he leads, no one will follow". So, a leader must have some quality to inspire his followers.

What should be the qualities of a leader? There are undoubtedly some qualities which are required of any leader. What about the leader of a gang of thieves or a criminal gang like the Mafia? Leadership can be benign or malign. But, the leader must serve the interests of his followers and not his own personal interests. Jesus Christ, who washed the feet of his Apostles, showed that a leader is not superior to his followers and it is the leader's duty to serve his followers. So, a leader's motivation is as important as his ability to lead. If he is to act in the interests of his followers, he must also have values and courage. What sort of values does a leader of a criminal gang require? He must be ruthless in enforcing discipline perhaps for otherwise each will pursue his own interest. The same applies to a leader of a political party. For as Benjamin Franklin pointed out once a political party comes into power each of its members pursues his own interest and it is the duty of the leader to check the membership and see that the public interest is not undermined in the process.

What sort of values should a leader in a democracy have? He must be persuasive and able to convince his followers that what he says is right and is necessary for the good of his followers. His ability to convince them of his view is most essential. So, a democratic leader requires the power of persuasion. To persuade people he must have the values of honesty not only in material affairs but also intellectual honesty. They say there is honour even among thieves. Even a leader of a criminal gang is truthful to his followers for once he is caught lying he loses credibility; without honesty, there is no communication;

There are many ideas about which leadership traits will be generally most important, but, these qualities can vary in particular circumstances. Winston Churchill, for example, had a chequered political career in peace time but proved enormously successful as a wartime leader. President MR is a successful war-time leader. Leaders cannot get all the credit but a fair share of the credit must undoubtedly go to him.

One trait that I would like to see in the new president: the ability to radiate a sense of calm and competence or "the ability to keep cool under pressure". The last thing the country needs is someone who acts impulsively on the basis of highly simplified, if not irrelevant, images of how the world works. We seem to have had a surfeit of them since 1978 although President J.R. Jayewardene was an exception. Management theorists agree that the ability to hear diverse points of view is important. If a leader is not careful to set up an environment where the free expression of different points of view is encouraged — whether that leader is in the corner office or the White House — decisions can end up being made by "group think," leaving him or her at risk of overlooking important facts and new approaches to problems, says Cappelli. Unfortunately, this seems to be a fatal weakness in our leaders. They surround themselves with toadies who tell them what they like to hear. When they face criticism they attribute motives to the critics and hound them. So, the media falls foul of them and attempts are made to brand them as enemies of the state, unpatriotic and biased. But, patriotism in a democratic context must include the right to dissent.

The next president has a big to-do list: Lead a nation that is still not united with all the minorities suspicious of the dominant majority. We have become if not a pariah state at least a state that is despised by the liberal democratic West with whom we have close economic relations. The suspicion must be dispelled and we must win back their respect. The next President must eliminate or make a big dent in the budget deficit, avert the collapse of the financial system and manage the tsunami of entitlement obligations under the free education free health care and other subsidies.

The challenges facing the next president will be the most daunting facing any president of our lifetime. There have been immense problems building up for a long time and crying out for solutions and time is not on our side. With the collapse of Golden Key and some more finance companies tottering and with business still to recover the under-pinning of the economy must be strengthened. The global challenges like the suspension of GSP Plus must be resolved. What the EU is asking is to respect human rights and this is something in our own interests. Do we want to become a state like Iran or Myanmar, where individual right to protest is repressed violently? Do we want to continue with abductions, disappearances and extra-judicial killings? Those in charge of the State must be able to stamp them out and punish those who indulged in them.

The public in developing countries are generally thought to like charismatic leaders. But this obsession with charismatic leadership is not in accordance with democracy and more suitable for a dictatorship.

Another 50 years of democracy may be needed before the public gets maturity. Today's problems may not be suited for a one man show. Today's problems call for a different model of what we want in a leader.

"I think there's a pretty clear consensus that somebody who can compromise and somebody who can find ways to find common ground across competing positions can be pretty important going forward," says Cappelli.

The ability to negotiate and put a deal together is a very important skill for a democratic leader.

Character, another of the three timeless qualities, is what derailed Bill Clinton. Clinton "had the most subtle mind of anybody I've ever known," Gergen said, clarifying Clinton's intellect as "capacious" and capable of "synthesizing" on two or three different fronts at once. He could carry on a conversation with the most articulate intellectuals on his staff or in his cabinet while doing the New York Times crossword puzzle. The ability to listen to advisers is important. Machiavelli said there is no point in giving advice to a prince who is stupid.





