India's Sachin Tendulkar celebrates making 100 runs against Australia at the Adelaide Oval, in Australia, Thursday, Jan. 24, 2008, on the first day of their fourth test. Australia leads the series 2-1. (AP Photo/Rick Rycroft)

ADELAIDE, Australia (AP) - Sachin Tendulkar marked what is likely to be his last Test in Australia by stroking his 39th Test hundred Thursday and putting India in a strong position after day one of the fourth Test.

At stumps, he was 124 not out and India was 309-5, batting first after winning the toss.

The crowd, though willing an Australian victory, was appreciative of Tendulkar, who corrected a previously mediocre record at the Adelaide Oval with his ninth century against Australia - six on these shores - and second of the series.

India needed his contribution. Anticipating a run feast on a pitch that favors batsmen on the opening days, the visitors instead wavered and lost direction before Tendulkar found the mettle to restore the innings.

The visitors had slipped to 156-4 in the afternoon session, with the home side then on top.

Those wickets brought Tendulkar to the crease. After lunch he saw opener Virender Sehwag (63) out caught at first slip by Matthew Hayden off Brett Lee, soon followed by Sourav Ganguly (7) who was given out lbw to recalled spinner Brad Hogg in a contentious decision.

Tendulkar played the dominant role in a 126-run stand with V.V.S Laxman for the fifth wicket that gave India the ascendancy.

His first five scoring shots were boundaries, and altogether he hit nine fours and three sixes, reaching his century in just 133 balls.

Tendulkar has admitted that as his career draws to a close and as the dwindling number of matches left to him mean each innings is more significant, the 90s have begun to hold new terrors.

But he avoided anxiety by going from 92 to 98 with a straight-hit six off Michael Clarke, and to 102 with a cover-drive four next ball.

Laxman was dropped by Adam Gilchrist off Brett Lee when on 37 before falling just after his half century to the same combination, giving Australia fresh hope for day two when it will try to remove the India tail quickly.

Tendulkar will be eager to post a big score, knowing that England made 551-6 in its first innings against Australia at Adelaide last season and still lost the match.





