The excitement that rose to fever pitch, the mud-slinging of both sides, the pre-election violence which took the lives of four people, the complaints to police that numbered over 900 and the tensions, subsided with the announcement of results beginning Tuesday night.

Many were of the view, and believed that elections whether presidential, parliamentary provincial or Pradeshiya Sabah is a good thing. Only when elections occur does the ruling party think of the voters. The opposition in turn points out the flaws, point out the flaws, corruption and mis-deeds of the ruling regime. The ruling party is sensitive to these criticisms and to some measure promises to rectify their negligence of the people who in fact originally voted them into power. Hence, in the final analysis despite all the waste in spending huge sums of money for propaganda, violence, mud-slinging assault, vilification, scanded-mongering and thuggery; in the end elections are a good thing and the voters get something which they would never have got if there were delayed or no elections.

This writer never got an increase in his pension for years. Hey Presto! On the eve of the scheduled day for voting, he was given news of an increase of 15 percent on his pension. All the pensioners were joyous and they wished that elections be held annually, that is the only way to win their demands, they remarked. The more elections the better, they said.

President Rajapaksa's victory was a popular one. The majority expected Rajapaksa's victory. However on account of vilification, false charges of corruption, over-blown charges of inefficiency, doubts arose in the hearts of the Rajapaksa's supporters. President Rajapaksa courageously took charge of the propaganda of the UPFA and vigourously campaigned in the last two weeks to ensure a magnificent victory.

Reliable sources divulged that President Rajapaksa was disconcerted with the attitude of the Muslim community. Only an estimated 30 percent voted for him, which 70 percent voted for Sarath Fonseka. The Muslims are aware of the monumental contributions made by President Rajapaksa to usher in peace after 30 years of war and strife where 90,000 Muslims of Jaffna were chased out of their homes, 136 Muslims killed while praying at the Hussieniya mosque in Kattankudi. More recently the building of the longest bridge in Kinniya, the development work in Eastern province, like the building of roads, the Oluvil port and the bustling trade among Muslims in Kattankudy, Kalmunai, Eravur, Valaichchanai, Marudamani, Samanthurai, Addalaichchanai and other Muslim villages and town- ships. Critics claim that Muslims are an ungrateful community. The Prophet (S) said "How can one be grateful to God, when one is not grateful to man". The Holy Quran time and again demands that believers acquire the virtue of gratitude.

The episode underscores that there are many so-called Muslims who are ritualistic and sanctimonious in their perceived practice of the great and noble religion of Islam. May Allah-U- Ta'allah guide the Muslims' in Sri Lanka to the straight path, so that they will enjoin good and forbid evil, choosing a middle-way in life in our society and be a model to the rest of the people in our fair land. Historically the Sinhalese Buddhists have always treated the Muslims with respect and dignity.

Since the Vadukoddai declaration of the Federal Party in 1976, a section of the Tamils declared armed conflict to obtain Eelam a separate state in Sri Lanka. Since that day, Sri Lanka has known nothing but strife, misery, violence, murder and absolute insecurity.

However a brave, courageous and valiant man, elected to power in 2005 took the responsibility of confronting the terror and anarchy unleashed by a misguided section of the Tamil people.

Despite immense pressure from the US and other Western powers like Britain, France, Germany, Norway, Switzerland, Canada and Australia in the East, Mr. Rajapaksa in a determined effort halted the advance of the LTTE in May 2009 and became a national hero.

Peace was ushered in after a 30-year war where an estimated 70,000 people died.

Sri Lankans who suffered from a fear-psychosis were relieved they could travel in buses, trains and air-planes freely without being anxious. Parents were relieved.

Such freedom from fear after 30 years should have made Muslims grateful as much as the return of them to Jaffna and the liberation of Mutur, Muslims in fact now can go fishing and trade freely in the eastern province. Still, the majority of them turned against Rajapaksa.





