The Government has to provide a rent allowance for the MPs since it did not have enough government houses for them, Public Administration and Investment Promotion Minister, Dr Sarath Amunugama told Parliament yesterday.

"The MPs did not ask for the remuneration or the allowance but only for government houses. But there are not enough government houses within the city limits to accommodate all of them. Therefore, we have to pay an allowance of Rs 50,000 a month," Minister Amunugama said.

The Minister was answering questions raised by UNP MP Dayasiri Jayasekera in an adjournment motion that around 40 ministers obtain the rent allowance without the concurrence or approval of Parliament and this could amount to a violation of the Constitutional provisions. MP Jayasekera also demanded that such ministers should be removed for violating the Constitution. A housing rent allowance of Rs 100,000 had been paid to ministers from 2007 and this allowance has been reduced to Rs 50,000 from January this year. In terms of Article 68 of the Constitution, the power to pay a salary or an allowance to members of Parliament including ministers, deputy ministers, the Speaker, deputy speaker, and deputy chairman of committees is vested in the Parliament. The rent allowances have not received the approval of Parliament, he said. He demanded that the steps should be taken forthwith to suspend the payment of this allowance.

Gampaha District UNP MP Edward Gunasekera seconded the motion. "This is a clear violation of the Constitution. They must be removed from the House," MP Jayasekera said.

Minister Amunugama said: "Earlier the MPs coming from outstations had rooms to stay in Sravasti. Then the legislature had only 101 MPs. Later this was changed under the Premadasa Government. Now we have 225 members and all should be provided a house in Colombo city limits for security reasons. There was only one minister who rejected to stay in Colombo and that was the late Minister D. M. Dassanayake who became an easy target for the LTTE. Nobody likes to take the risk again."

Minister Amunugama said that the housing rent allowance had been approved by the Cabinet of Ministers and thus it was legitimate enough.





