The Island-NewsThe Hambantota port, being built near the main shipping route across the Indian Ocean, is part of a Chinese effort to project influence and protect vital trade lanes, a US military study said.

The study lists the commercial-shipping container port at Hambantota, being built by Chinese contractors, as part of China's so-called "string of pearls" strategy to gain political influence and be able to project power in the Indian Ocean region, news reports said.

The report, "Joint Operating Environment 2008," was produced by the Norfolk-based U.S. Joint Forces Command, The Washington Times newspaper said.

It lists China as the main emerging nation-state threat that US forces could confront in a future conflict, along with potential threats from Russia, the Middle East and other places in Asia.

Other facilities listed in the report are Pakistan's Gwadar port, near the mouth of the Persian Gulf, as a naval base and surveillance facility, and the Woody Island airfield in the Paracel Islands in the South China Sea.

These are listed as being useful to China as part of the Chinese shipping-lane-protection strategy, the newspaper said.

The US military report identifies China as the most significant potential threat for the American military in the future.

The paper said the report discloses new details of what it described as Beijing's efforts to build political influence and military power along the strategic oil-shipping route from the Middle East to China — a so-called "string of pearls" strategy.

But the Washington Times also quoted a US Chinese Embassy spokesman Wang Baodong as calling the idea of China having a "string of pearls" strategy a "fantasy."

"It's true that China is conducting cooperation with some Asian countries in various fields including ports developing, but it's justifiable business for China and the joint ventures are for commercial purposes only," Wang was quoted as saying.

"People should see China's activities with a sensible and more balanced approach. As facts have proven, China's activities are for mutual benefit and peaceful purposes, constituting no threat to anyone else."

Construction work on the port in Hambantota is ahead of schedule, Sri Lanka Ports Authority officials said.

It is being built mainly with a Chinese loan and by two Chinese construction firms.

It is envisaged first as a bunkering facility and later a port for general cargo vessels and eventually to tranship containers.

Hambantota was chosen as the site for the new port because of its proximity to the main shipping lane across the Indian Ocean. (Colombopage)



