If one could peruse the historical records, he or she would clearly be convinced what had happened to the sacred Kelaniya Rajamaha Viharaya after the invasion of foreign enemies in the coastal areas of the island and unwelcome intrusion into the sacred temple.

Those intruders carried out immense destructon by pulling down and demolishing ancient monuments leaving behind only ruins for the posterity, but those enemies could not destroy the glory of the sacred place, the mentality and spirit of the Buddhists had never failed. The states of great temple could not be damaged by any power. Although more books have been written, published in news papers and also aired in the electronic media about this sacred shrine, no adequate publicity was received to the sacred Boddhi tree at Kelaniya, which was planted during the period of most venerable Welivita Saranankara last Sangha Raja of Sri Lanka.

All Buddhists regarded the Bodhi tree as an object of veneration as it has links with Jayasiri Maha Bodhi tree at Anuradhapura which also a branch of the original Bodhi tree of Buddhagaya in India under which the Buddha gained enlightenment, Samma Sambodhi. Daily people gathered at the Bodhi tree to perform Bodhi Pooja for invoking of blessings on the sick, armed forces children and those seeking happiness,peace and relief from all sufferings.

I greatly appreciate the installing of a gilded fence, gold plated Ranvata around the Bodhi tree on the specific terrace and also a staircase with a set of granite steps leading to the enclosure. This noble task is a landmark event, which was pioneered by the Sri Lanka army commander Lt. General Sarath Fonseka with generous contributions from the entire armed force. Ranvata was ceremoniously opened on 23rd August 2008 by his Excellency Mahinda Rajapaksa the president of Sri Lanka.

Every year Duruthu full moon Poya day is celebrated with much veneration and piety, performing religious activities, conducting processions and carrying the golden casket containing the Buddha relics on the back of the caparisoned tusker in graceful honours.





