It was stated in The Island Newspapers that at the fifteenth A.G.M. of the Asian Crime Prevention Foundation at the Galle Face Hotel, H. G. Dharmadasa, former Commissioner General of Prisons said that it was absolutely necessary that the government took effective action, to ease the acute congestion in the prisons.

Condemned prisoners are located only at Welikada and Bogambara prisons. For the last two and a half years, death sentences have not been commuted to life imprisonment. Consequently, when only one prisoner should be located in a cell there are more than five now. The congestion in the wards where normal prisoners are located is no better. H. C. R. de Silva, the Attorney General, making the keynote address as the chief guest said that doing away with non-summary proceedings in the Magistrate's Courts for grave crime would reduce the work load of the Magistrate's Courts, resulting in quick disposal of cases of major crime. This will also contribute to the reduction of prisoners.

The prisons are bursting at the seams. There should be an integrated approach by the entire criminal justice system. If laws delays are to be reduced, then there has to be some concerted action by the various limbs of the criminal justice system - the police, judiciary, the Bar, Attorney Generals Department, Government Analyst, Registrar of Finger Prints and the Examiner of Questioned Documents. Any vacancies in these departments should be filled to expedite disposal of work.

Over 65 percent of the prison population consists of remand prisoners. However not more than ten percent of them are convicted.

The increase in the number of prisoners is also due to the repid increase in varied aspects of crime in the country and also the reduction of five amnesties per year to one, for Independence Day only. Instead of three weeks, only one week's remission is granted for every year served.

Remand prisoners should be located exclusively in remand prisons. A remand prisoner is considered innocent until he is found guilty. But due to the overcrowding in the remand prisons, the Department is compelled to locate remand prisoners in convicted jails. Such location is unsatisfactory, since it leads to contamination of remand prisoner by hard- core criminals.

With such a large number of remand prisoners awaiting trial, the Department has to produce these prisoners for their cases in various courts in the island. A large number of officers have to be deployed daily to escort them to courts. Due to paucity of vehicles, prisoners are packed into them, resulting in an unsavoury sight to the public and at times they are manacled in buses and trains. Sometimes a remand prisoner is escorted more than ten to fifteen times to courts. Court cells are full. Inevitably, this leads to a breakdown in the security of prisoners, resulting in escapes. The Department has to spend a large sum of money for transport of prisoners and provide bata for officers.

Prison lock-ups are transit camps located in close proximity to courts in various parts of the island. Their function is to produce prisoners in courts and admit prisoners sent from courts and send them as early as possible to the nearest prison. Their capacity is to accommodate about ten to fifteen prisoners. However, due to the large influx of remand prisoners and postponement of cases, they are compelled to locate over 60 to 65 prisoners at times in certain lock-ups.

The cost of maintaining a prisoner in the prison in respect of food is apart from other expenditure, is about rupees 200 per day. To feed such a large number of prisoners, the Department spends an enormous amount of money. Therefore, the incarceration of such a large number of prisoners for long periods is a liability on the state and action should be taken to bring down the remand population.

One solution to reduce the congestion in the prisons, is to establish a few medium security institutions like the Weerawila camp and open institutions like at Pallekelle and Anuradhapura. The prisoners should be trained in agriculture and animal husbandry and generate an income to the institution. They should also be deployed to renovate tanks and cultivate paddy fields in close proximity to the institution. Recently this was done at Maharagama and Kegalle. This should be extended to other areas as well.

The Department emphasises the correctional aspect of prisoners apart from the custodial functions of the staff. At the Centre for Research and Training in Corrections, training of staff is geared to motivate staff, with the correct attitudes, knowledge and skills to rehabilitate the convicted prisoners to minimise recidivism. Nevertheless, the main obstacle in the area of rehabilitation is the acute overcrowding due to excessive numbers in respect of both convicted and remand prisoners.

Long periods of remand in suspense awaiting trial, lead to varying degrees of mental depression and even suicidal tendencies, involving psychiatric treatment. Where the bread winner is remanded, the families are confronted with economic problems, resulting in break-up of families and affecting the education of children as such long periods of remand, not only affect the remandee but his family as well. After all these traumatic experiences, if the remand prisoner comes out of jail without a conviction, he comes out with a sense of bitterness and antipathy towards society.

Consequently, apart from those involved in grave crimes, e.g. murder, rape, extortion, drug offences, gang robbery, kidnapping for ransom etc., the Minister of Justice should implement strategies to effect a drastic reduction of both remand and convicted prisoners.

Overcrowding also leads to a breakdown in cleanliness and sanitary conditions in prisons.

Laws delays should be eliminated, with the objective of ensuring speedy justice to avoid unnecessary suffering to the alleged offender and his family and expenditure to the state. The late Sir Winston Churchill said, "the mood and temper of the public in regard to the treatment of crime and criminals is one of the most unfailing tests of the civilisation of any country". The dawn of a new era of a quicker disposal of cases in courts is a cherished dream of the community in Sri Lanka. "Justice delayed is justice denied."





