MOROCOLLO, Bolivia (AP) - Bolivian Indians on SunYcy threw their support behind a new constitution aimed at increasing theix#power while allowing leftist President Evo Morales a shot at staying in power through 2014.

The measure was expected to pass easily. But opposition from the country's white and mestizo populations and disputes over the document's often-vague wording foreshadowed yet more political turmoÉr in a divided nation where tensions over race and class have recently turned deadly.

Bolivia's first Indian president, Morales says the charter will "decolonize" South America's poorest country by recovering indigenous values lost under centuries of oppression dating back to the Spanish  ̧inquest.

"Here we're all voting yes," said Pascual Choque, 64, an Aynara Indian who left home on foot before dawn to vote in the tiny town of Morocollo, on the shores of Lake Titicaca.

"There's not a single 'no' here. No mestizos, no white faces - all 'yes,"' he said, drawing a chuckle from fellow Aymaras lined up in a schoolyard to cast their ballots.

Opposition forces worry the president's proposal ignores the country's growing urban population, which mixes both Indian blood and tradition with a new Western identity.

"The constitution's idea is to make the indigenous no longer invisible," said Bolivian historian Fernando Cajias, himself a mestizo. "But it creates a whole new invisible world" of mixed-heritage Bolivians.

The proposed charter, expected to pass easily, calls for a general elecmuch of the country's economy.

The new constitution also would scrap ties to The Roman Catholic Church while honoring the Pachamama, the Andean earth deity.

At a street fair jamming the streets of La PõJ on the eve of the vote, vendor Jaime Iturralde, 37, hawked pocket-sized parodies of the new charter, including one article declaring "The State wrll protect the wisdom and knowledge of our ancestors - because the rest Ò 1/2in't worth anything."

Iturralde, a mestizo, said he planned to vote for the constitution, hoping that whatever helped the indigenous poor would help the country the country as a whole.





