'Oliver Castle' on Gregory's Road, Colombo 7, is one of the last surviving heritage homes in the city of Colombo. It was built in the 1800s and it represents a period in Sri Lankan history when Sri Lankans entered the international export trade on an international scale and achieved unimaginable success. The wealth amassed by such merchant princes was unprecedented in the history of Sri Lanka and so were the mansions built by them. Alas almost all such mansions have been torn down during the past century to make way for hundreds of little city homes.

'Oliver Castle' is a rare survivor and is a handsome mansion built by Henry Joseph Peiris, a leading plumbago (graphite) exporter, renter, plantation owner and philanthropist of that era. Mr Pieris, born in 1858, was a very charitable man and apart from the many land and cash grants to public causes he funded the building of the Andris Peiris ward at the Colombo Eye Hospital. His mines were equipped with state-of-the-art steam pumping gear and he employed thousands of workers in his many business ventures. Messrs. Bert & Co. of Ashton Lodge acted as his agent in the United Kingdom and his home 'Oliver Castle' was, and still is, a rare and exquisite mansion associated with this grand old plumbago era. This era defined Sri Lanka's advent into the modern industrial world but so far our universities, academics, economists, architects, cultural and heritage ministries appear to have overlooked this critical economic turning point and as a result we have almost lost that entire era without a trace.

As such 'Oliver Castle' is a stately home that should be preserved and used to illustrate that glorious golden age of Sri Lanka. But shockingly, the Canadian High Commission has decided to completely demolish this heritage home within a few weeks and build a modern embassy building in its place. This is a disgraceful decision, more so as it comes from Canadians who preserve even insignificant old buildings, shacks and sheds in their own country. Therefore, the Canadian High Commission's decision to totally destroy a priceless heritage home in Sri Lanka is a sign of Canada's disrespect and callous contempt for Sri Lankans and for Sri Lanka's heritage and culture.

Sri Lankans, if you care about the architectural, historical, economic and social heritage of our country we need to act fast, lobby the powers that be and save this stately home.





