Members of Indian activist Anna Hazare's anti-corruption crusade, wave black flags and shout slogans in protest as Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, unseen, leaves after paying respects at the Golden Temple, Sikh's holiest shrine in Amritsar, India, Sunday, Jan. 1, 2012. India's Parliament was unable to pass an anti-corruption bill that had been cleared by the powerful lower house earlier this week, leaving the controversial legislation in limbo. (AP)

At a time when civil society is arguing feverishly over the details of government's move to set up the Lok Pal (Ombudsman) machinery to deal with corruption, reservation can be dynamite. So let the proposal of such step be analysed carefully. What it means is that out of the 9-members Lok Pal, 50 percent of person will be from the Schedules Castes, Schedules Tribes, women and backward classes.

This is the first time since independence when the principle of reservation has been extended to top positions. Tomorrow a similar demand may be made on the appointment of judges in the High Courts and the Supreme Court. This principle, pernicious enough, stops the best talent from the country being chosen for top jobs. Instead, anyone can be brought as long as he or she fulfills the qualification for reservations.

This approach has already forced the country to lower the standard of education and the quality of government service. Yet nothing anybody can do even to fix the time limit for reservations because any suggestion on the subject creates furor from the interested groups. All political parties are slaved to reservations because they link them with their electoral prospects. The ruling congress has too fixed its eyes on elections in January-March 2012 in five states including UP, Punjab and Uttrakhand. Reservations may influence the dalits who have turned their back on the party.

Yet, something more acrimonious happened when the bill was introduced in the Lok Sabha. Members belonging to Other Backward Classes (OBCs) demanded a quota for Muslims. The government gave in because it also has the Muslim electorate to placate. Although Muslims have been allotted 4.5 per cent from the 27 per cent of reservations provided in the Constitution, the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) is up in arms and has threatened a civil war if the quota is given to Muslims. On the other hand, the Muslim leaders have demanded the 10 per cent reservations outside the Constitutional provision of 27 per cent. The Supreme Court gave a ruling some time ago that the total reservations cannot exceed 50 per cent. Surprisingly, the Congress has already decided to give Muslims a quota of 4.5 percent in educational institutions and employment. But this decision yet to be implemented and the quota will be from overall reservation of 27 per cent.

The quota is probably illegal because the Constitution forbids any reservation on the basis of religion. Cases are pending before the Supreme Court from Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka where a quota has been given to religious minorities, Muslims and Christians. Legal experts have pronounced that the government's step to give reservation to religious minorities is unconstitutional. But in the meanwhile the atmosphere of parochialism is affecting different communities and creating an embarrassing situation for civil society. The Congress could not have hit the ethos of pluralism more severely than it has done by introducing reservations in top positions.

This may well be a move to defeat the Lok Pal bill in Parliament because the BJP would never agree to a quota for Muslims. It, along with the left which is against reservation in principle, can defeat the bill in the Rajya Sabha, the Upper House, where the Congress and its allies cannot muster a majority. But the BJP should be prepared to bear the responsibility for not having the bill passed by the end of the year, a demand made by the Gandhian Anna Hazare who is leading a movement for the passage of Lok Pal bill I am unable to make out why the Congress withdrew its support at the last minute to the draft bill which had got the near consensus at the all-party meeting at the Prime Minister residence. The hitch may have been because of the reported opposition by Congress president Sonia Gandhi who has said that they are ready to take on Anna Hazare. The last time it was her son, Rahul Gandhi, who had diluted the bill finalised by the Parliament Standing Committee. Its Chairman Abhishek Manu Singhvi has admitted that he met the Congress high command on the eve of the bill's finalisation.

The government has not in fact taken Lok Pal bill demand seriously from the beginning and has not understood how infuriated the civil society is. Even then the bill it has brought before Parliament under pressure gives control of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to the Personnel department at the centre. CBI has been used by the different government for their political purpose. Retired directors of CBI have written about their experience, how they were asked to move or not to move against such and such person.

Even the appointment of apex body to select persons for the Lok Pal machinery the panel is that of the Prime Minister, the Opposition Leader and the Chief Justice of India. How can the Chief Justice be on the selection committee when the appeal against the wrong or motivated appointment lies with the Chief Justice. It is however good to note that both the government and Anna Hazare have agreed to keep the judiciary out of ambit of Lok Pal. But the appointment of Judicial Commission, sought through a bill, requires more teeth. Also the Commission should have some eminent publicmen as its members. It seems that the bill has been drafted in haste and probably with the purpose that it should fall either in Parliament or in the Court. True, the government has accommodated Anna Hazare on many points but if one were to analyse the provisions it would be clear that what the government gives by one hand takes away by another. Yet I wish the Lokpal bill had the constitutional authority which the BJP has unthinkingly forced to fall in the Lok Sabha for not being able to get the required two-third majority.

Against this backdrop I can understand the pressure by Anna Hazare to pass the bill but I unable to appreciate his fast for 3 days when Parliament had already taken up the bill. In any case he had given the call for jail bharo (fill the jail) from January. His enunciation is to propagate against the Congress in the five states assembly to defeat the party is suspect. This unnecessarily gives strength to the allegation that the whole movement is political and meant to help the BJP and some other opposition parties.

The country is going through political and economic crises. Any wrong step by government or by civil society can harm the nation and unwittingly support the parochial and desperate elements. I recall the words of US President Jefferson from his inaugural address "Let us reflect that, having banished from our land that religious intolerance under which mankind so long bled and suffered, we have yet gained little if we countenance a political intolerance as despotic, as wicked, and capable of as bitter and bloody persecutions."





Devaluation unnecessary

Rupee falls slightly, interest rates leap

January 2, 2012, 8:23 pm

The Governor of the Central Bank tried to bring some sanity to the market yesterday as speculators hammered the exchange rate which saw the rupee fall slightly and interbank interest rates rise on liquidity tightening.

Central Bank Governor Ajith Nivard Cabraal said there would soon be a glut in foreign currency inflows which would completely remove the pressure that continued to build up for the rupee to depreciate against the dollar on severe import demand.

"We do not want to unnecessarily allow the rupee to depreciate at this stage because we know foreign currency inflows will be strong and there would soon be a glut," Cabraal told The Island Financial Review.

"There is ample space for us to defend the exchange rate at its current level and the Central Bank will not panic. We are very focused and we know what we are doing. The market may panic, but we will not fall into this trap and unnecessarily depreciate the rupee," Cabraal said.

The Central Bank is releasing the Monetary Policy Road Map for 2012 today (Jan. 03) and Cabraal said he would elaborate more on the expected foreign currency inflows. "We will show you where it will all come from," he said.

Speculators caused pressure on the rupee to intensify yesterday which resulted in a slight depreciation with the dollar closing at Rs. 113.90/92 from last year's close Rs. 113.89/90.

Dealers said there was speculation that the rupee would be further depreciated which added more pressure on the exchange rate already under siege by severe import demand.

As usual, Central Bank intervention brought stability to the exchange rate through dollar sales. This resulted in the further tightening of rupee liquidity and interbank interest rates jumped yesterday.

The average weighted call money interest rate for interbank borrowings without security leaped to 9.40 percent on Monday from 8.97 percent last Friday. The money market interest rate for interbank borrowings backed by Treasury securities increased to 8.35 percent from 8.17 percent last Friday.

The Central Bank and Treasury don't see eye-to-eye on the exchange rate issue. Treasury Secretary Dr. P. B. Jayasundera last week called for a more flexible exchange rate and tighter monetary policy as pressures on the balance of payments mount. But analysts point out that only one option would suffice, devalue the rupee or tighten monetary policy.

Last November (22) the government devalued the rupee by 3 percent against the wishes of the Central Bank and there is growing speculation that another devaluation would soon follow as it failed to stem the severe import demand.

Ministry of Finance and Planning Department of Public Enterprises Director General S. R. Attygalle told journalists last November, as reported in these pages, that an exchange rate of Rs. 114 or Rs. 115 to a dollar would not be a bad thing "if it uplifts our export sector and import substitution industries".

The Central Bank had sold US$ 1.1 billion in three months to prop the exchange rate between July and September and nearly US$ 710 million since the 3 percent devaluation in November 22.

Total export earnings for the first ten months of 2011 slowed down to 23.4 percent to US$ 8,702.1 million while the import bill grew at a much faster pace, up 50.7 percent to US$ 16,436 million. The trade deficit had expanded by 100.6 percent year-on-year to US$ 7,733.9 million.

New bank loans to the private sector for the first ten months of this year amounted to Rs. 376.2 billion. The new loans generated for 2010 was Rs. 290 billion. The year-on-year growth rate of credit to the private sector from the domestic banking system was 35.6 percent last October.





Plans are afoot to construct modern fisheries harbours in Gandara in the Matara district, Gurunagar in the Jaffna district and Silawathura in the Mannar district to assist the economy of the country, Fisheries and Aquatic Resources Development Minister Dr. Rajitha Senaratne said.

He said that the estimated cost of the constructions was 59.3 million euro and the Government of Denmark will provide funds on a long term credit facility.

He said that Ministry also plans to construct the Kalamatiya harbour at a cost of Rs. 853 million and measures have been taken to develop the fisheries harbour in Point Pedro in the Jaffna district under the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) and also seven others at Kudawella, Puranawella, Mirissa, Hikkaduwa, Beruwala and Dikkowita at a cost of Rs. 6,834 million.

He also added that the southern coastal belt will also be developed this year which will help to improve the livelihood of the coastal fishing communities.

According to Dr. Senaratne, the development work in the fisheries sector would help to create new employment opportunities, boost fish production, increase the number of fishing vessels and provide anchoring facilities for larger vessels.

The Fisheries Ministry has also taken steps to double the present fish harvest from 385,000 tons to 686,000 tons by 2013. Sri Lanka is targeting US$ one billion in foreign exchange earnings from fisheries exports by 2020.

He said that ministry plans to increase the income from Rs. 1,020 million to Rs. 5,000 million by 2013 and to increase inland fish production to 75,000 tons. The ministry also targets to increase the fish harvest in the North and East by 50 percent by 2013.

He said that in the year 2010, the national fish production was 360,000 tons and in 2011 production was over 400,000 tons. Fishermen in the North and East contributed to 43 percent of the national fish harvest.

Currently, Sri Lanka has a malnutrition level of 21 percent among children. The per capita consumption of fish per day was only 31 grams and it has increased to 35 grams. The Ministry has set up the targets to increase it to 60 grams to eradicate malnutrition in children by 2013. Sri Lanka's total fish production has to reach 685,000 tons in 2013 to achieve this target, Dr. Senaratne said.





The Peradeniya Medical Faculty is celebrating 50 years in January 2012 (from 3rd to 7th). This article reflects some aspects of the Medical Faculty and its work.

The purpose of this short piece is to document the beginnings of the study of medical education in Sri Lanka and to acknowledge Senaka Bibile's role in initiating it.

Senaka Bibile (1920-1977) the person and his work, are well known in medical, political and Intellectual circles within Sri Lanka. I wanted an international perspective on this remarkable man. Hence I scoured the internet and came across this anonymous quote in Wikipedia, 'he was the greatest medical benefactor of humanity that Sri Lanka has hitherto produced'. The thoughts and the subsequent work which earned him this reputation occurred during his time at the Peradeniya Medical School(PMS) as Professor of Pharmacology (1962-1967) and subsequently, as its first Dean (1967-1970).

I knew Senaka Bibile fairly closely, as a friend, as his occasional physician and as a collaborator in the field of medical education. Senaka's work in this field is not as well known as his work in helping nations set up national drug policies and in promoting the rational use of drugs. When Bibile decided to move from congested Colombo to the free thinking environment of the Peradeniya Campus, he was brimming with ideas for making the PMS as a medical school based on rational approaches to education and on scientific thinking. With this in view, he wanted himself and the teaching staff to learn about the process of training doctors. Using his charisma and affable personality he invited the staff to his own house in the Campus on Tuesday evenings (after the 'Tuesday Talks' which was a lecture series for staff and students, and a precursor to the Kandy Society of Medicine) to read and discuss a book on medical education titled "Teaching and Leaning in Medical School" by Stephen Abrahamson and George Miller. Many staff readily accepted his invitation. Each one of us took on the responsibility for reading and verbally summarising a chapter from this book. These informal meetings were held in a spirit of camaraderie and were thoroughly enjoyable. (Later in 1973, under the auspices of the Medical Education Unit, the authors of this book conducted a Teacher Training Workshop for teachers from the PMS and the Colombo Medical School). After several of these Tuesday evening sessions a formal 'Working Group on Medical Education" (WGME) was established in the PMS.

The 1960s was also the time when the World Health Organisation was getting interested in Medical Education (It used the wider term of Health Manpower Development) and was willing to support any local efforts made to train teachers in medical schools in educational science. Noting the efforts which the PMS was making in this field it started to provide support for medical teachers to strengthen their knowledge and skills in medical education which finally resulted in the establishment of the Medical Education Unit in 1973-the first such Unit in the country and in the South-East Asian Region.

Senaka Bibile's implantation of the idea of medical education in the PMS has now grown and reproduced itself to become a well established discipline in medicine, on par with any other discipline in the medical field. All medical schools and many schools which train health personnel in the island now have a Medical Education Unit or its equivalent.





Michael Hussey's career wasn't quite on the line when he came out to bat in the second innings at the Melbourne Cricket Ground, but he needed runs, writes S. Ram Mahesh in The Hindu, in a story datelined Jan. 2, 2012.

Eight previous innings had yielded a mere 83. At 36, these are the sorts of numbers that convince critics that the eyesight has dimmed, the reflexes have dulled; worse, it makes them dig up other numbers as corroboration — for instance, the fact that Hussey, since 2008, has the same number of ducks (12) as Chris Martin, the walking wicket.

Hussey moreover had fallen for a first-innings duck. That he hadn't touched Zaheer Khan's rip-snorter to the keeper made matters worse.

The world had seemed an unkind place. He had thrown his head back and screamed in frustration before leaving the field.

"It was a reaction which said: 'give me a break'," said Hussey. "I was preparing so well, I felt good in my mind,

"I felt I was hitting the ball well, I didn't think I was getting any reward for it. So I was yelling at the cricket gods to give me a break."

Reprieved thrice

They seemed to hear it. Not only did he get an early 'release' ball, one on the legs to get started, he was also reprieved thrice, twice by the umpires, once by Rahul Dravid.

"It was a case of getting a start," said Hussey of his second-innings 89.

"Luckily for me it was on my pads. Sometimes it helps the confidence. They had us in trouble at 27 for four and they were attacking us. It opened up scoring opportunities."

Hussey batted brilliantly. From a slight forward press, which allowed him to readjust further forward if needed or push off to play off the back-foot, the left-handed Hussey took the bowling.

It was the certainty, indeed the intensity, of his footwork that was most striking. They suggested a clear-headedness, an absence of selfishness.

"I wasn't thinking about myself, to be honest," he said, when asked if thoughts of it being his last innings crossed his mind.

"My main thoughts were to get a stand with Ricky Ponting and I was not thinking about my spot in the team. We desperately needed a stand and I was lucky to be with Ricky with whom I have batted a few times."

Quick single

Hussey's ability to take the quick single by knocking the ball into the off-side, something India didn't guard against well enough, helped him shift the momentum.

That he plays both the cover-drive — an organised stroke of clean-cut contours, a specialty of his — and the pull — forceful but controlled — made him difficult to bowl to.

His influence on the match didn't end with his batting. He caught a blinder at gully to send back Virender Sehwag. "It wasn't the best ball Ben (Hilfenhaus) has ever bowled, and I didn't see it all that fast," admitted Hussey.

"But it happened to stick. I had a bit of luck and all the team were thankful that it stuck. We know Sehwag can destroy a game if he bats for two hours."

Hussey mightn't do what Sehwag does in two hours. But India can't afford to allow him to bat that long in the 100th Test at the Sydney Cricket Ground, one of Hussey's two favourite grounds.

"It's a really special occasion," he said. "But I am a bit nervous [as well]. With the stars aligning with Tendulkar needing one more hundred in Sydney, where he has made a lot of runs, it is ominous."

Back to the basics

Having managed something of a turnaround, what does it entail? "I keep coming back to the basics," he said.

"Just focus on the way I plan and think, just stay positive. You got to have belief that a score is just around the corner. That's basically what I do."

Did he think India's batsmen could do it? "We will see over the next couple of days what the conditions are," said Hussey.

"In recent years this pitch has done a lot, especially on the first day. In Melbourne, just outside off-stump, there was extra bounce and movement.

"In Sydney, the wicket now has changed texture. While earlier it looked to be a real dust-bowl, it's seamer-friendly now and when overhead conditions are helpful, it's tough to bat in the last few years, particularly early in the match.

"The Indian batsmen are extremely skilful. They know their game so well, they have played in Australia, they could bounce back, but we can take confidence as well. Our bowlers were relentless (in Melbourne). If they remain so at Sydney, it will be a tough fight for the Indians."





The top officials of the Health Ministry yesterday threatened to pullout from all administrative duties unless the co-ordinating Secretary of the Health Minister, who had threatened Director General of the Health Services with death last week, was not transferred.

A Ministry source said yesterday that the co-ordinating secretary of the Health Ministry, who is an intern in the hospital had made death threats to DGHS Dr. Ajith Mendis, after the intern entered into an argument over a tender issue.

The officer said that if they kept away from duty all administrative work and supply of drugs would be hampered in all government hospitals.

The intern had pressured the Director General to award a tender to one of his acquaintances and when the latter clearly told him that he had no right to interfere with the tender procedures of the Ministry, the intern had entered into an argument with Dr. Mendis. The intern had told Dr. Mendis that he was a native of the South and that several Ministers were close to him and threatened to stab the Director General.

Senior officials of the Health Ministry are scheduled to meet the Minister today in this regard.





Members of the Lessons Learnt and Reconciliation Commission (LLRC) at Kadirgamar Institute (File pic)

by Jehan Perera

The main political representatives of the Tamil people, the MPs of the Tamil National Alliance, have been under pressure from the government which frequently refers to them as the "LTTE rump." During the latter period of the three decade long war, the LTTE was able to persuade the TNA politicians to fall in line with their position that the LTTE was the sole representatives of the Tamil people. Prior to this capitulation, several leading politicians from constituent Tamil parties had been assassinated by the LTTE, leaving those who survived with no option. Some either joined the government or stopped criticizing the government in order to obtain government security to protect their lives. Those who preferred to remain independent of the government made the choice of falling in line with the LTTE.

President Mahinda Rajapaksa is one of the government leaders who frequently refers to the TNA as holding on to LTTE positions. He has appealed to those perceived as being influential in regard to the LTTE, such as the Indian media, to convince the TNA to be reasonable and to discuss how to resolve the problems of the Tamil people with the government. There is a section of the government that sees the TNA as being unreasonable in continuing to insist on old positions held by the LTTE, such as the merger of the Northern and Eastern provinces. But the LTTE also held on to the notion of an independent Tamil state and sought to achieve it through violent means. By way of contrast the TNA has been the victim of violence by all sides and holds to the ideal of a federal Sri Lanka, which fall short of independence.

The situation that the TNA finds itself in today is not enviable. The TNA is not only under pressure from the government. It is also under pressure from the Tamil people who voted for it by large majorities in the areas in which Tamils predominate. The majority of those who voted for the TNA would be amongst the worst off in Sri Lankan society. They lived in the midst of war that despoiled the North and East of the country for nearly three decades. Only few of them were unscathed by the disaster that unfolded during that long period. Invariably the war entered their lives, either by collateral damage, having their children forcibly recruited or being forced to flee from place to place.

Even today more than 100,000 Tamil people live displaced and outside of their homes, either with relatives or in transit camps awaiting relocation to their home areas. They would be seeing the peace dividend in the form of government buildings that are coming up and roads being repaired and tourists from the rest of the country traveling along them. But, unfortunately for most of them these developments remain outside of their reach, as those contractors who build the government buildings and roads come from outside the North and East for the most part, and bring their own labourers with them. Even the tea kiosks by the side of the road are manned by army personnel. That is the people who could have done that small scale enterprise are denied that opportunity as well.

Constructive politics

So far the TNA has failed to persuade the government to deliver more resources to the people of the North and East. In a democratic polity where politicians need votes of people to remain in power, it is inevitable that governments in power would prefer to allocate scarce economic resources to those who will vote for them. As the TNA does not support the government and instead engages in confrontational politics with it, the government is not inclined to be responsive to the needs of people who vote for the TNA. This keeps in motion a vicious cycle of neglect and hatred that is not good either for reconciliation in the country or for the people in the North and East.

As the political representatives of the war-affected Tamil people, the TNA has to consider engaging in politics that helps the people rather than leads to their neglect. On the one hand, it is important for the TNA to keep the aspirations of the Tamil people in mind. It is also important that the basic needs of the people are also met so that lead a normal life in which there is material progress for themselves and their children. The TNA needs to reconsider its apparent policy of total confrontation with the government at all levels. As a beginning in the process of reconciliation with the government, the TNA could reconsider their strong rejection of the final report submitted by the Lessons Learnt and Reconciliation Commission to the President.

The report of the LLRC would count as amongst the most important public documents that investigates and analyses the causes of the ethnic conflict and problems of governance in the country. However, the TNA's preliminary statement on it echoed that of international human rights organizations which strongly critiqued and rejected the LLRC report. Earlier they had found fault with the composition of the LLRC and now they found it wanting in terms of international humanitarian law. However, the TNA is not an international human rights organization but a political party. Politics has been defined by those skilled in the profession as the art of the possible.

Commendable prescriptions

The TNA's preliminary statement rejecting the LLRC report focused on its failure in holding the government accountable for human rights violations and war crimes and for attempting to pass them on to the failures of individual soldiers. It stated that "The LLRC report categorically fails to effectively and meaningfully deal with issues of accountability." The TNA statement did not consider the LLRC's analysis of the causes of the conflict and its prescriptions for the resolution of the conflict. What the LLRC had set out in terms of good governance practices and a political solution was not new and has been stated by the more liberal and thoughtful politicians and civil society groups on numerous occasions before. But what was special this time was that the LLRC was appointed by President Rajapaksa, whose government has taken a diametrically opposed position on almost all of the issues addressed.

The government's decision to make the LLRC report public could be due to a variety of reasons. In the case of previous commissions of inquiry that seemed to come up with inconvenient truths, the government either stopped them three-quarter way or suppressed their findings, as in the case of the report of the All Party Representatives Conference on a political solution. On this occasion there was considerable international pressure on the government to come out with the report, as the government itself held out that the LLRC report would provide the answer to international allegations of war crimes in the last phase of the war. This is an opportunity to be taken and not rejected. Although the TNA may find fault with how the LLRC addressed the issue of accountability, its analysis of the conflict and its prescriptions have much to commend in them.

As the third largest political party within Parliament and the largest Tamil one, the TNA needs to consider joining hands with the other political parties and with like-minded civil society organizations to ensure that the LLRC recommendations are implemented. While the government has given the impression that it accepts the LLRC report, its decision making circles may believe it is not in their interests to implement the recommendations any time soon. The LLRC's vision is that of a plural and multi ethnic society in which there is the rule of law and checks and balances on unbridled power. As a result it is possible that the government leadership will prefer to drag their feet when it comes to implementing the recommendations of the report. It is important that the Tamil polity become a vibrant one that is integrated into the larger national polity. It is in the larger national interest that the LLRC recommendations be implemented.





Employees of the cash-strapped CEB have turned down a government offer of an 18 per cent salary increase – six per cent each for a three-year period beginning 2012.

The United Trade Union Front of the CEB, affiliated to the JVP, said yesterday that it would resort to trade union action unless the government met their demand for an annual 15 per cent increase each for a three-year period. The union said that it would push for 45 per cent salary increase.

Workers of CPC, National Water Supply and Drainage Board (NWSDB) and SLPA are also campaigning for the unprecedented 45 per cent increase.

In 2003, employees of those four institutions received a 23 per cent salary increase, 33 per cent in 2006, 22 per cent in 2009.

General Secretary of the union, P. A. Ranjan Jayalal yesterday told The Island that the government offer was unacceptable. Responding to a query, Jayalal said that the government was pushing for an unprecedented guarantee from employees of the CEB, CPC, NWSDB and Sri Lanka Ports Authority for a three period (2012-2015) that they wouldn't demand salary increase. According to him, the agreement was a prerequisite for the 18 per cent salary increase. "We rejected the agreement," he said, alleging the proposed agreement would deliver a knock-out blow to trade unions. The bottom line was that the government was seeking our consent to suspend trade union action, he claimed.

The proposal has been made by a five-member committee, which included Ministers, Gamini Lokuge, Susil Premjayanth, John Seneviratne and Champika Ranawaka.

Asked whether it was reasonable on their part to demand a 15 per cent annual salary increase at a time the debt-ridden CEB paid PAYE (Pay as You Earn) tax on behalf of its workers, Jayalal said that the union would never give in to government moves to do away with the existing arrangement.

When pointed out that the Committee on Public Enterprises (COPE), too, had called for a review of the controversial if not illegal arrangement, the trade unionist said that the parliamentary watchdog committee's opinion on this issue was irrelevant. Jayalal stressed that there couldn't be a controversy as long as the CEB paid PAYE tax on behalf of its workers.

Jayalal pointed out that CEB employees weren't the only public servants benefited by an institution paying PAYE tax on behalf of its workers.

COPE Chairman Senior Minister Dew Gunasekera said that PAYE tax payments made by various institutions on behalf of their workers was a major burden to those institutions. Such payments would further hamper those institutions which in extreme financial difficulties at the moment.

UNP trade union leader parliamentarian Dr. Jayalath Jayawardena yesterday said that the UNP fully backed the workers proposed trade union campaign to win a 45 per cent salary increase. Dr. Jayawardena said that he couldn't comment on the PAYE tax issue and the COPE recommendation without studying them.

The UNPer acknowledged that political parties, including the UNP had failed to address the grievances of private sector workers, though the private sector was called the engine of growth. The MP also admitted that a section of public servants didn't enjoy those perks and privileges given to those working for the CEB, CPC, NWSDB and SLPA.





AkzoNobel, the makers of Dulux Ambiance carried out an exciting activation at the Crescat Lobby and the World Trade Centre to add colour and a sense of cheer to the holiday shoppers and corporate executives. Named 'Ambiance Portraits', this activation took place at the Crescat Lobby from December 19 to 24 of December and at the World Trade Centre Level 3 Lobby from December 19 to 21, 2011.

Dulux Ambiance is a colour palle which enables you to express your stylish side. Ambiance Portrait activation gave the consumers at these two venues the opportunity to take photographs with their family and friends and gave them an instant 8R photo print free of charge. The photographs were made even more vibrant with the five diverse themes of Dulux Ambiance, namely 'Beauty of everyday life', Finding the way', 'Molecular magic', 'Made with love' and 'Pop up pleasure'. Colourful backgrounds depicting these five themes were on hand and consumers were given the opportunity to experiment with their style by trying out different props such as hats, shawls, colored sunglasses and even large lollipops which highlighted each of the respective themes. Through this interaction those who took photographs were given a clear understanding of the Dulux Ambiance colour range and how each theme can reflect an individual's personality. This information was provided through an information docket on the Ambiance colour palette. This activation provided a welcome break to customers during the hectic seasonal shopping frenzy, in addition to providing insight into beautifying their homes with their very own personal touch.

Participants of this activation were given the opportunity to use their creativity while showcasing their own personal style, as the most imaginative picture of the day will be awarded a prize, once the photographs are uploaded onto the 'Dulux-Let's colour Sri Lanka' Facebook page. The participants were also requested to tag themselves on their respective pictures and share the colourful moment with their friends. While brightening up the festive season the Dulux Ambiance portraits activation brought a sense of fun to the holiday shoppers and undoubtedly 'fashion for walls'.





Sri Lanka's private bus industry is losing Rs. 200 billion annually due to commuters opting for other modes of transport.

The country's private bus industry has fallen into a pathetic state due to the non availability of a professional to even design a time table. That is why the industry is on the verge of collapsing, Lanka Private Bus Owners' Association Chairman Gemunu Wijeratne told The Island last night.

He predicted that the industry would be destroyed 50 per cent by 2015 and extinct by 2020.

He pointed out that most of the commuters had opted for three wheel scooter taxis and motor cycles. In 2010 alone 206,000 motor cycles and 84,000 trishaws had been imported.

When pointed out that under a market economy consumers had the option of choosing their own modes of transport, he conceded to that, but admitted that the failure to produce time tables for his industry had made the commuters opt for trishaw and motor cycle transport.

One of the major issues of the industry was that there had not been a corresponding increase in bus fares, despite the diesel price hike. This was one of the major issues that the Association would place before President Mahinda Rajapaksa later this week, he said.

The Association is hopeful that solutions will be found at its meeting with the President, Wijeratne said, adding that they will have to resort to other action if they are not given a favourable hearing.

He also lamented that there was no one who was interested in developing the industry and alleged that the biggest drawback in the industry was corruption in the issuance of route permits.

The only area that there is no corruption in the route permits was the southern province, he said.





There has been a shoemaker at Hospital Street Colombo, for a long time. I used to give my shoes to him for the past 28 years. Recently, one day I went to him to give my shoes to mend, he refused to mend my shoes and he told me point blank that he has lots of work and go to another shoe maker. I was utterly surprised to hear it. But later on I realised may be this is what happened, after clearing the area around Hospital Street, all the hi-fi people started to park their vehicles in the cleared space. Maybe those hi-fi people give him lots of money to mend their shoes. But even I also gave him what he asked for mending my shoes.

Even after that, when I was passing him I saw that he was mending shoes for some other women. Still I wonder what had happened to this shoe-maker to refuse to mend my shoes. When we think of a shoe maker, we think him as a poor person, but I realised there are rich shoe makers also who can refuse to mend shoes. Beggars can be choosers!





The accident rate had shown seven per cent increase over that of the previous year. The Colombo National Hospital had received 987 accidents victims, of different nature, from December 30 to January 1 midnight, the Accident Unit said.

Head Nurse of the Unit Puspha Ramani Ramyalatha told The Island that of 987 accident victims this year, 390 cases were admitted as against 249 last year.

She said 110 persons sought treatment due to alcohol consumption, but last year there were 80 cases. About 118 hospital transfers were made to the Colombo National Hospital from other hospitals.

She added that around 275 road traffic accidents had occurred as against 262 the previous year. There were 147 home accidents against last year's 176. Around 183 low level falls were treated as against 133 last year. Violence accounted for 116 cases compared to last year's 136. About 24 suicidal cases were reported. Only 12 fire-cracker accidents were taken to hospital while 4 victims of train accidents also sought treatment.





Anoma Gamage MP, who is fighting a legal battle against the Mahinda Rajapaksa regime over the acquisition of Sevanagala Sugar Industries, under the newly introduced RUEUA Act, said yesterday that she would be petitioning the International Chamber of Commerce shortly.

She recently requested the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association, in writing, to protect her against "an act of crass intimidation aimed at stifling her political activities as a member of the main opposition UNP."

Gamage,who seems to be fighting a lone battle among the 37 companies that have been acquired on the basis that they are under performing or underutilized, told "The Island" that she and her husband Daya Gamage who was an Eastern Provincial Council member,were being targeted purely on political grounds.

"I have decided to pursue all avenues to stall the revengeful policies of the Rajapaksa government .The next step would be to petition the International Chamber of Commerce and it will be done within a week",she said.

Sevenagala Sugar Industries was a profitable entity and it canno't be categorized under the RUEUA Act, Gamage said adding that President Mahinda Rajapaksa himself had renewed the lease on the company's lands a few months ago.

The governments sudden decision to aquire Sevanagala ,not only violates their fundamental right to engage in a lawful occupation, profession,trade or enterprise as guaranteed by Article 14(g) of the Sri Lankan Constitution,but also the independence of parliamentarians as set out and endorsed by the Commonwealth (Latimer House) principles and the CPA,she observed.





Jubilee celebrations of Faculty of Medicine, Peradeniya; 50 years in Medical Education

January 2, 2012, 7:47 pm

Continued from yesterday

By Dr Ananda Jayasinghe

(Alumnus- 1978 admission Cohort)

Former Head, Department of Community Medicine Faculty of Medicine University of Peradeniya & Past President, Kandy Society of Medicine

Continued from yesterday

There are many Academic Staff members of Faculty of Medicine, Peradeniya who have made very significant contributions to the other medical faculties.

Prof C Sivagnanasundaram, then Senior Lecturer in Community medicine at Peradeniya left for Jaffna to become the first Professor of Community Medicine. Prof M Sivasuriya left for Jaffna to become the first Professor of Obstetrics & Gynaecology (currently, the Chancellor of University of Jaffna)

Prof Jayantha Jayawardene (Alumus – then Senior Lecturer) left Peradeniya to become the first Professor of Obs. & Gynaecology of Faculty of Medical Sciences, University of Sri Jayewardenapura.

Dr T Varagunam, former Professor of Medicine, Peradeniya – later became the Chancellor of Eastern University of Sri Lanka and Dr P T Jayawickramarajah (former Director / Medical Education Unit, Peradeniya) have helped in great deal, the staff deprived Faculty of Medicine of Eastern University in its academic programme.

There were many alumni of Faculty of Medicine, Peradeniya who became the presidents of Professional organizations, Some of them are; Prof Nimal Senanayake – past President of Sri Lanka Medical Association(SLMA), Dr W D H Perera – founder President of Sri Lanka College of Dermatologists, Prof Channa Ratnatunga – past President of College of Surgeons, Professor Neelakanthi Ratnatunga – past President of Sri Lanka College of Pathologists, Prof Vasanthi Thevanesam – past President of Sri Lanka College of Microbiologists, Prof Pushpa Jayawardene – past President of Sri Lanka College of Community Physicians,

Prof Chula Goonasekera – Founder President of Sri Lanka Society of Critical Care and Emergency Medicine, Dr Jagath Wijesekera, Dr Padma Gunaratne,(past Presidents) and Prof Sarath Lekamwasm – current President of Ceylon College of Physicians, Dr Ananda Samarasinghe – past President of Forensic Pathologists of Sri Lanka and once a powerful President of GMOA. Dr Sarath Wattegama – past President of Sri Lanka College of Oncologists. Dr K L Fernando - the current President of Sri Lanka College of Surgeons.

Three academic staff members of Faculty of Medicine, Peradeniya were appointed Vice Chancellors of University of Peradeniya. Prof Malcolm Fernando, Prof R G Panabokke (later became the Director of Postgraduate Institute of Medicine Colombo and the Chancellor of University of Peradeniya) and Prof Arjuna Aluwihare later became the Chairman of the University of Grants Commission (UGC) and Prof. Harischandra Abeygunawardena (past Dean of Faculty of Veterinary medicine & Animal Sciences, alumnus – pre 1980) became the Vice Chancellor of University of Peradeniya. Prof Ranjith Mendis (alumnus-pre 1980) past Dean of Faculty of Dental Sciences, subsequently became the Chairman of the UGC.

Dr Reggie Perera and Dr Athula Kahandaliyanage, two alumni of the faculty served as Director General of Health Services and later became permanent secretaries to the Ministry of Health. At present, Dr Palitha Mahipala (alumnus) serves as the Additional Secretary to the Ministry of Health.

There are many overseas based eminent persons who are alumni of the faculty playing very prominent roles at international level, bringing honour to the faculty, university and the country. Prof Malik Sriyal Peiris from the University of Hong Kong (once an academic staff member of Peradeniya, a well known virologist, who was directly involved in the identification of the virus during the SARS epidemic that swept through the world in early 2003.

Dr Palitha Abeykoon(from the first batch), Ex-Director WHO regional office based in New Delhi, India served well with distinction. Another alumnus, Prof Shanthi Mendis, former Professor in Medicine joined the WHO. She is now based in Geneva as Senior Advisor Cardiovascular Diseases / WHO and has been a tower of strength to the faculty and Sri Lanka.

The Faculty of Medicine, Peradeniya, has been very actively engaged in research and produces a large number of research papers, well over 150 annually, presented at the Academic sessions of Kandy Society of Medicine, Peradeniya University Research Sessions, International Congress of PeMSSA , SLMA etc and many research papers are published in international journals. High quality research activity is reflected by the large number of postgraduate students, registered at our faculty (through University of Peradeniya).

Further, there is an excellent demand shown by the postgraduate trainees of the Postgraduate Institute of Medicine, Colombo for various disciplines.

Although the principal mission of the faculty is to produce well balanced quality doctors, the faculty has produced award winning artistes in the field art/cinema. Prof Nimal Senanayake, current Senior Professor of Medicine, alumnus, who has produced award winning scripts for a number of tele dramas and together with another alumnus, Dr W P Somasiri, entered the silver screen by producing the award winning film 'Sankranthee' (The Tender Trap)

With the establishment of the second Medical School in Peradeniya in 1961, an academic and professional organization was born in 1964, due to pioneering efforts of Dr T Varagunam, Mr R Rasaretnam (former Consultant Cardio- thoracic Surgeon) and Dr Kolitha Karunaratne. This was named Kandy Society of Medicine, popularly known as KSM. Since then it has very actively contributed to medical education of our country.

In view of the Jubilee celebrations of the faculty, the current President of the Kandy Society of Medicine - Prof Chandrika Jayasinghe (alumnus) and the Council have decided to advance its Bibile Memorial Oration in January 2012. (The inauguration ceremony of the 34th Annual Academic Sessions will be held on in February 2012 as scheduled).

The Dean of the Faculty of Medicine, Peradeniya, Dr Gamini Buthpitiya has been invited to deliver the prestigious Bibile Memorial Oration 2012.

The first Alumni Association of a medical faculty (Peradeniya Medical School Alumni Association - PeMSAA) was established in 1992 due to the dedication of past alumni of the faculty during the deanship of Prof Malcolm Fernando. The first President was Dr Joel Fernando and the first Congress chairman of the 1st International Medical Congress of PeMSAA was Dr W D H Perera (both were from the first batch).

As mentioned at the beginning, the President – Prof Neelakanthi Ratnatunga, the Congress Chairperson- Prof Chandra Abeysekera and the council of the Peradeniya Medical School Alumni Association have decided to hold its 11th International Medical Congress alone with the Jubilee Celebrations of the faculty. Prof Malik Sriyal Peiris (alumnus) will grace the occasion as the Chief Guest. Dr Joel Fernando (alumnus - first President of PeMSAA) as the Guest of Honour. Another eminent researcher and Neurologist, Prof Nimal Senanayake (alumnus – Current Senior Professor of Medicine) will deliver the prestigious Congress Lecture.

The decision to invite two alumni as Chief Guest and Guest of Honour at the 11th International Congress deserves full appreciation.

Therefore, the Faculty of Medicine, Peradeniya as a premier institution in medical education in our country has many reasons to be proud of what it has delivered to nation over the past five decades.

I sincerely wish that the Jubilee celebrations of Faculty of Medicine, will be truly colorful and memorable for all of us who care and love our alma mater.





Democratic People's Front (DPF) leader Mano Ganeshan yesterday accused the government of failing to address the legitimate grievances of Tamil speaking people, though the conflict ended in May 2009. He said his party no longer believed in the UPFA's promises to resolve the national issue.

The DPF Leader said that the government had failed to devolve powers to the provinces in line with the 13th Amendment to the Constitution. The failure on the part of the Rajapaksa administration couldn't be accepted, he said, alleging that the government was adopting delaying tactics.

Responding to a query by The Island, Ganeshan emphasized the importance of the government calling the first elections for the Northern Provincial Council without further delay. The ongoing resettlement, rehabilitation and development projects should be handed over to the Northern provincial administration. Had that happened, the vast majority of people living in the Northern Province would be happy, he said.

Contrary to claims, the people of the war-devastated Northern Province hadn't benefited through various development projects implemented by those running the administration, he said adding that the government was delaying Northern Provincial Council polls in line with its political strategy.

The DPF alleged that 'Uturu Wasanthaya' initiative had failed to meet the pressing needs of the community, though a section of the media portrayed the project as the panacea for all problems.





At least five more vociferous critics of the UNP leadership, from the party's rebel wing, would be suspended next week followed by disciplinary inquiries against them, a top Sirikotha source disclosed yesterday.

Political observers see this impending move as a further move to consolidate the position of party Leader Ranil Wickremesinghe, who was re-elected recently by the party Working Committee and the parliamentary group amidst rioting, by rebel supporters, in protest.

Source said that the party working committee would soon take a decision on those to be suspended and submit the decision to the leadership for action. If the disciplinary inquiries found them guilty they would thereafter be expelled from the party.

Two leading rebels, Matara District MP Buddhika Pathirana and Western Provincial Councillor Shiral Lakltillake have already been suspended and their disciplinary inquiries have yet to be completed, even though, at the time of suspension, promises were made to complete the hearings within two weeks.

The party has also suspended electoral organisorship of two other prominent rebels, Kurunegala Organiser and parliamentarian Asoka Abeysinghe and Katana organizer and Western Provincial Council member Rose Fernando.

The reformist camp's media spokesman for the Movement to Protect the UNP, Lal Perera told The Island yesterday that they were not surprised by the actions of party Leader Ranil Wickremesinghe, who surrounded by a self-serving coterie of businessmen, was not interested in the unity or the future of the party, but was carrying out a contract of the government to either drive most of the remaining UNPers to the government ranks or out of politics.

Perera said they were aware that the party leader was now gunning for leading reformists like Dayasiri Jayasekera, Sujeewa Senasinghe and Rosie Senanayake.

Another leading light in the reformist camp, parliamentarian Ranjith Maddumabandara, who managed to secure his seat in the Moneragala district, despite Wickremesinghe openly calling on party voters not to cast their vote to him at the April 2010 polls, yesterday warned that if any more reformists were suspended they would organize protests by UNP supporters countrywide.





The Peradeniya University administration lifted the temporary ban on the Students' Council and all Faculty Students' Unions with effect from noon on December 31.

University sources said that the administration severely warned the leaders of the unions aginst getting involved in activities which could lead to tarnish the reputation of the Peradeniya Univeristy and endangering the lives of undergraduates.

The students' Council and all faculty unions were temporarily suspended within the Peradeniya University, on Dec. 21 by the Vice Chancellor Prof. Sarath Abeykoon following recommendations by his advisory committee.

Undergraduates organized a protest march from Peradeniya to Colombo on the same day against the establishment of private universities and suppression of student rights. It was stopped by the police on an order by the Kandy Additional Magistrate. Organizing of protests and other violent activities were the main reasons behind the suspension of the unions.

President of the Students' Council, Mahesh Prabhashwara Lanka told The Island that they welcome the decision to lift the suspension of their unions. It was a result of their peaceful protests, he added.

"The university administration suspended our unions claiming we were organizing activities which endangered the lives of students and tarnished the name of the university," he said.

Lanka said that they explained to the university administration that they were not wrong and finally the ban was lifted.

"We received the letter informing us of the lifting of the suspension on Friday," he said.





I don't think that there is anything more left for me to write about 'Comrade Governor' Alavi Moulana – 'Andukara Sahodaraya' as he is being fondly called by the president - after reading various news media devoting pages in covering his life story comprehensively. This 'people's governor' has won the hearts of many and very especially of every common man far and near, in a big way, by keeping his doors of his office, residence and even his hospital room- when he is warded for treatment- always open. I remember visiting him in one of the hospitals, in Colombo, during my last vacation; there was a prominent 'NO VISITORS' board on the door and still wearing his oxygen mask he was attending to the personal problems of dozens of people, from all walks of life, who came there with 'dual purpose'- to see their popular governor and to seek his help.

An ever grateful President Mahinda Rajapaksa fittingly honoured his friend and loyal 'Andukara Sahodaraya' with a party to celebrate his 80th birthday. I have never known to have read any adverse comments about this governor in the press, whether it is pro or anti-government. As mentioned in 'The Sunday Island' article (1/1), his relationship with the opposition is extremely cordial. Although he belonged to the Muslim community he never ever differentiated the other community members from his own. This is the cardinal reason why he was loved by every Sri Lankan, immaterial which community he or she belonged to. We wish the 'People's Governor' good health and long life to continue his selfless service to the common man.





No team barring Australia have beaten South Africa in Cape Town in 50 years

January 2, 2012, 9:27 pm

Rex Clementine reporting from Cape Town

Exciting wicketkeeper batsman Dinesh Chandimal has been ruled fit to play the deciding final Test against South Africa that starts today here at Newlands in Cape Town, but fast bowler Dilhara Fernando has been ruled out with a knee injury.

Fernando will be replaced by his ex-school mate Dhammika Prasad, who joined the squad after the first Test as replacement for the injured Nuwan Pradeep Fernando. Chandimal, who got hit on his right elbow by a Prasad delivery during practices on the New Year day, was taken to doctors who had declared the 22-year-old had not sustained any fractures. He practiced yesterday with his elbow heavily strapped and after training captain T.M. Dilshan declared him fit to play.

Sri Lanka are chasing their first series win in more than two years after squaring the three match series by winning the second Test in Durban by 208 runs last week. Away from the sub-continent and Zimbabwe, Sri Lanka haven't won a Test series since winning 1-0 in New Zealand in 1995.

Newlands has been a South African fortress with no team other than the Australians being able to beat the Proteas in this ground since their readmission to Test cricket. Since 1992, South Africa have won 15 of the 23 Tests played here. The last time a team other than Australia beat South Africa here was half a century ago when New Zealand won by 72 runs in 1962.

"We know that it's very difficult to beat South Africa in South Africa. But after what happened in Durban, everyone is excited. Lots of guys have regained their confidence. Our fast bowlers throughout the series have done well. We are looking forward for the Test tomorrow, particularly our fast bowlers," Sri Lanka captain Tillakeratne Dilshan, who won his first Test after ten unsuccessful attempts said.

South Africa's scheduled training session yesterday morning was cancelled due to rain, but the Sri Lankans had the fortune of a good net session as the rain ceased by the time they arrived at Newlands in the afternoon. They also practiced at the side wickets of the ground with emphasis on fielding, particularly slip catching.

With the series leveled, just over 1500 tickets were left unsold by yesterday morning for day one. Ground authorities expect them to be sold by today morning and a full house of 25,000 is expected. As of yesterday, 3000 tickets still remained unsold for day two while 4500 tickets were available for day three giving an idea on the interest here in South Africa on the series.

The Proteas have dropped middle order batsman Ashwel Prince due to his poor form and have recalled Alviro Petersen. He will open the innings with captain Graeme Smith, while Jacques Rudolph, who opened in the first two Tests will move down to number six. Vernon Philander, who was Man of the Match in Centurion but missed the Durban Test due to a knee injury, will return to the side in place of Marchant de Lange, who picked up seven wickets in Durban in the first innings on his debut.

South Africa haven't won a home Test series in three years, with the last one being against Bangladesh and captain Graeme Smith stressed the need to put that record right. "We have been reflecting on a few things and had a few chats on where we had been poor. We can play a lot tougher cricket than we played in Durban."





Amana Takaful Maldives PLC, the Maldivian listed arm of the Sri Lankan based Amana Takaful PLC which had a 16 Million Ruppiah ( LKR 114 million) Initial Public Offering in the Maldives in September and fully subscribed last month , will see the shares making its debut in the Maldivian Stock Exchange this week.

The issue was for 800,000 shares at Ruppiah 20 each. Amana Takaful is also the first corporate to be Shariah complaint in the Maldives and also the first Shariah compliant corporate with the Maldivian Stock Exchange.

There will also be a bonus issue of 1.3: 1 which means that the shareholders will get 130 shares for every hundred shares which was also in consonance with the agreement at the time that the IPO opened, Amana Takaful PLC General Manager (Marketing) Adel Hashim told The Island Financial Review yesterday.

The company expects the share to debut at slightly over 20 Maldivian Ruppiah given that there is a bonus issue on the cards and also given the bullish growth prospects especially in the Maldivian resort sector which is currently growing at a very rapid pace.

The Board of Directors of Amana Takaful Maldives comprises: Akbar Brothers Director and Amana Takaful Sri Lanka Chairman Tyeab Akberally as the Chairman, Osman Kassim, Eshan Zaheed and MHM Rafiq who are all Directors of the local Amana Takaful operation along with the Malaysian Dato Fazli Mohamed Yusuf. It is envisaged that there will be another member of the Board who is a Maldivian national who will be joining in the first quarter of 2012, Hashim said.

He also said that the company will be very upbeat in procuring a major slice of the now – competitive Maldivian insurance market in which there are already four players- the Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation Ltd, Ceylinco along with Maldivian player Allied Insurance. Specially crafted products are there for the micro- insurance categories, fire and burglary policies for the resort and condominium sectors which the locally- led company was bullish with.

There had been overwhelming support for the company and its entry into the Maldivian financial services and insurance markets from the Maldivian Stock Exchange and the Maldivian Capital Markets Development Authority.





By John Quiggin, author of Zombie Economics and Professor of Economics at the University of Queensland.

SELLING public enterprises to private businesses was a central theme of economic policy in many countries during the final decades of the 20th century and in the years leading up to the global financial crisis of 2008.

Although the push for privatization took different forms in different parts of the world, it was part of a broader movement aimed at reducing the role of government in the economy and at increasing reliance on markets and prices. In particular, the movement toward privatization reflected the presumed superiority of financial markets over governments in allocating capital.

In the wake of the financial market breakdowns that characterized the global crisis, though, much of the theoretical and policy rationale for privatization has come into question. On the other hand, the adoption of austerity programs aimed at reducing public debt has led to increased focus on the sale of publicly owned assets as a way to reduce that debt, for example, in Europe.

The balance between the public and private sector is always changing, so privatization is not of itself good or bad. The only general answer to the question of whether to sell public assets is: "It depends." Before looking at the central arguments that determine the desirability of privatization in any given case, it is useful to consider the policy in its historical context.

A global phenomenon

For most of the 20th century, the range of economic activities undertaken by government generally expanded—a result both of nationalization and of the establishment of new government enterprises where private sector provision was seen as inadequate. This trend reversed toward the end of the century.

In the English-speaking world, the United Kingdom led the way in this reversal. The privatization programs of the government of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher represented a rejection of the previous consensus on the role of government in a mixed economy, a consensus widely seen as having failed in the economic chaos of the 1970s.

In addition to selling existing assets, the Thatcher government pioneered new approaches to private provision of new public infrastructure, often referred to as public-private partnerships (PPPs). In a typical PPP arrangement, public infrastructure, such as schools and hospitals, is built and operated by private firms under long-term contracts; the associated health and education services are provided by the government.

Privatization took place on a larger scale in the last decade of the century, following the collapse of communism in Russia and eastern Europe—where all large enterprises and many small ones were publicly owned and subject, at least nominally, to central planning. The development of a market economy required the transfer of most of these enterprises to private ownership.

In the developing world, the general movement toward privatization was hastened by an emphasis on asset sales as an essential element of structural adjustment programs financed by the IMF and other international agencies.

The pace of privatization slowed in the 2000s, as governments ran out of easily salable assets and problems with earlier privatization emerged.

Perhaps the most striking examples of those problems were in the United Kingdom. Following a series of serious train accidents and ongoing questions about safety and performance, the government renationalized Railtrack, the privatized owner of the nation's rail network. A few years later, the partial privatization of the London Underground network, through a PPP arrangement, was plagued by mismanagement in one of the private companies responsible for operating the subway. Like the rail network, the London subway was renationalized. More recently, the U.K. Private Finance Initiative, responsible for PPPs at the national level, has come under severe criticism from members of Parliament, including government ministers.

The appeal of infrastructure built with no apparent cost to the public has been replaced by the reality of the need to service a large debt at the rates of return demanded by private investors in such projects—usually substantially higher than government bond interest rates.

A temporary reversal

A big reversal in the trend toward privatization occurred immediately after the global financial crisis began in 2008. Banks in the United States and Europe were rescued by their national governments on terms that amounted to nationalization, either implicitly or explicitly. Interestingly, some of these same banks had been leading advocates of privatization, which a number continued to support even when they were in public ownership. The process went beyond banks in the United States, where General Motors, long emblematic of private enterprise, was temporarily nationalized to prevent its failure. With the emergence of sovereign debt problems as a central policy concern, however, privatization is back on the agenda. Selling assets seems to be an easy way for governments to raise cash. Meanwhile, economic arguments about the costs and benefits of private and public ownership remain unresolved, and have been further complicated by the challenges to economic theory posed by the financial crisis.

While there are many arguments for and against privatization in particular cases, in general the most common argument for privatization is that it provides hard-pressed governments with a source of ready cash. But this argument is not as clearcut as it might seem. Selling an asset yields an immediate financial benefit, but it requires governments to forgo the earnings or services the asset would otherwise have generated.

The obvious question is whether the proceeds from selling an asset are more or less than the value of the earnings forgone. In principle, this is a straightforward question. We can look at the amount of interest saved if the proceeds from the sale were used to repay public debt and compare those savings to the earnings that would be generated under continued public ownership. Alternatively, but equivalently, we can convert a projected stream of future earnings into a present value, discounted at the rate of interest on public debt. If the proceeds from the sale exceed the present value of forgone earnings, privatization has improved the government's fiscal position.

There are two factors that will determine the outcome of an exercise of this kind:

First is the operational efficiency of the firm under private and public ownership. In general, a firm operating in a competitive market will do better under private ownership. However, if the market requires extensive regulation—to deal with monopoly or externality problems—the advantages of private ownership are diminished and may disappear.

Second is the relative cost of capital, taking appropriate account of risk. In general, even after allowing for default risk, governments can borrow more cheaply than private firms. This cost saving may or may not outweigh the operational efficiency gains usually associated with private ownership.

Still, it remains relatively rare to see privatization subjected to this simple empirical test. I have analyzed a number of Australian and British privatizations of the 1980s and 1990s and found that very few of them increased public sector net worth (Quiggin, 1995; 2010). The privatizations undertaken by the Thatcher government, widely applauded at the time, were among the worst in terms of their effects on the net worth of the public sector. Most notable was the sale of 50 percent of British Telecom for a mere ?3.7 billion, at a time when its pretax earnings were about ?2.5 billion a year.

Public sector suffers

There are a number of reasons why privatizations have left public sector net worth less well off. In some cases, including that of British Telecom, governments have deliberately underpriced assets for political reasons. Particularly in the case of a public sale of stock in an enterprise, governments often want to ensure that the share issue is fully subscribed and that buyers do not lose money through a decline in the share price. Both these incentives lead to underpricing.

Worse still, as in parts of the former Soviet Union, are cases in which the privatization process was corrupted. In many cases, small numbers of people have gained control of vast assets, while the public got little in return. Cases of this kind pose a sharp dilemma. On the one hand, it is undesirable to have public assets operated by a corrupt and unaccountable government. On the other hand, when such governments are put in charge of the sale of public assets, even larger losses accrue all at once.

But even where governments are motivated to seek the full market price for public assets, the benefits of lower debt often fail to match the cost of forgone earnings. The problem is that investors generally demand a substantially higher return on equity capital than on the high-grade debt issued by governments. This differential—called the equity premium—cannot be explained simply by the fact that returns on equity are riskier. Twenty-five years of analysis of the so-called equity premium puzzle has failed to produce a fully satisfactory explanation for its existence.

In most sectors of the economy, the higher cost of equity capital is more than offset by the fact that private firms are run more efficiently, and therefore more profitably, than government enterprises. But enterprises owned by governments are usually capital intensive and often have monopoly power that entails close external regulation, regardless of ownership. In these situations, the scope to increase profitability is limited, and the lower value of the asset to a private owner is reflected in the higher rate of return demanded by equity investors.

When it makes sense

Sometimes the sale of public assets as a way to raise revenue makes sense.

First, like all large organizations, governments have changing goals and objectives. Assets that were useful in one context may be superfluous in another. For example, as the U.S. military has become smaller and more professional, the need for army bases has declined, and some have been closed and sold. Rational asset management makes sense regardless of views about privatization and public ownership.

Second, some enterprises are unprofitable under public ownership, perhaps because of political constraints on such matters as hiring and firing, but can be sold to private investors who are not subject to these constraints. In cases of this kind, there is a clear fiscal benefit. However, it is important to consider whether the constraints in question are inherent in public ownership and whether the question of structural reform can be separated from that of private or public ownership.

Finally, if a government is in such dire straits that it can no longer borrow at the prevailing low rates for high-quality public debt, often it makes sense to sell income-earning assets. The interest saved is more than the earnings forgone. In cases of this kind, privatization may take place at fire-sale prices—not an optimal outcome. A preferable alternative is for international lenders such as the IMF to provide liquidity while efficient adjustments (including asset sales where these pass the benefit-cost test) are undertaken. In general, however, the idea that governments can improve their financial position to any significant degree by selling assets is an illusion arising from a focus on accounting numbers rather than economic realities. The economic argument for privatization is that it will lead to more socially efficient provision of goods and services, more competitive markets, and greater responsiveness to consumer needs and preferences. The strength of this argument, and of counterarguments based on market failure, varies from case to case. The strongest case for privatization arises in the wake of rescues like that of General Motors in the United States and, several decades earlier, of Rolls-Royce in the United Kingdom. Firms like these, operating in competitive markets and with no particular need for regulation, never belonged in the public sector. In the ordinary course of events, faced with severe financial difficulties, they would have gone out of business. However, given their iconic status, governments were willing to risk public money to keep them going. In both these cases, the rescue was successful and the firms were returned to private ownership.

No competition

At least in the developed world, however, such cases are rare. Most cases of public ownership across developed countries reflect the lack of many goods and services in competitive markets or special characteristics that require regulation. Infrastructure services of various kinds are commonly subject to public ownership. There are several reasons for this:

* These enterprises are usually capital intensive, so the low cost of public sector borrowing is more important.

* Infrastructure services are typically natural monopolies—a given area needs only one electricity network, water supply system, and so forth. This means that, even under private ownership, extensive regulation is needed, so the choice is between one form of government intervention and another.

* In many cases, such as that of road networks, it is difficult or impossible to impose prices that reflect the true social cost of provision.

Still, the temptation to move costly infrastructure investments off the books has proved irresistible for many governments, most notably in the case of toll roads. While toll road projects look good in an accounting sense, they are often failures in economic terms. The risk associated with owning just one part of a large road network means that private investors demand high returns. The cost of a toll road project, as measured by the discounted present value of toll revenue, is typically as much as twice the cost of a similar road financed by public debt and serviced by gasoline taxes or other indirect road user charges.

Moreover, the pattern of prices associated with toll roads is usually the opposite of what would be indicated by economic analysis. The primary cost of using a specific road is the resulting increase in congestion, which is why economists support congestion charges such as those imposed in central London. But, as in the case of London, it is typically the oldest roads that are most congested. Imposing a toll on a new, and uncrowded, road often increases the flow of traffic on older, more congested roads, reducing and sometimes wiping out the net benefits of the road project.

Health and education

Separate concerns arise with services such as health and education. For various reasons, these services are funded primarily by governments and provided either by public institutions or by private (often religiously based) nonprofit organizations. For-profit provision of health and education services has generally been problematic and, in the case of education, almost uniformly unsuccessful.

The problem in these cases is that there is no real market. The patients and students to whom health and education services are provided rarely pay directly for the services they consume. Instead, providers operate in pseudo markets created by governments and insurers. In this context, the sharp focus on profitability associated with private ownership works not to meet consumer need, but to seek out opportunities to game the system. For-profit health providers often engage in cost shifting, focusing on high-return services while pushing costly cases over to the public sector. For-profit higher education providers can exploit the weakness of student grant and loan systems. Given the weakness of market incentives, only organizations with a strong ethic of professional service can provide high-quality services such as health and education. But such an ethic cannot be wished into existence, and it rarely works perfectly; it is almost impossible to maintain a service ethic while at the same time using managerial controls to increase efficiency. Nevertheless, experience suggests that there is no alternative. Technologies and social priorities change over time, with the result that activities suitable for public ownership at one time may be candidates for privatization in another. However, the reverse is equally true. Problems in financial markets or the emergence of new technologies may call for government intervention in activities previously undertaken by private enterprise.

In summary, privatization is valid and important as a policy tool for managing public sector assets effectively, but must be matched by a willingness to undertake new public investment where it is necessary. As a policy program, the idea of large-scale privatization has had some important successes, but has reached its limits in many cases. Selling income-generating assets is rarely helpful as a way of reducing net debt. The central focus should always be on achieving the right balance between the public and private sectors. ?





Dr. R. H. S. Samaratunga yesterday assumed duties as the Secretary to the Ministry of Petroleum Industries. The position was not filled since the removal of the former Secretary Titus Jayawardena in the aftermath of the import of a consignment of low quality petroleum in June last year, which resulted in engines of thousands of vehicles being damaged.

Critics have been asking why neither the Petroleum Ministry nor the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation made any attempt to seek damages from the supplier of the 20,000 tonnes consignment of poor quality petrol so far.

As a result, the supplier, Emirates National Oil Co. Singapore Ltd. had gone scot free along with others who were responsible for the deal at this end, they charged.

Only Ministry Secretary Jayawardena and the CPC acting Commercial Manager Uditha Doloswela were punished. Jayawardena was demoted in rank in the Sri Lanka Administrative Service and Doloswela was sent on compulsory leave.

Since Jayawardena's departure the position was held by Acting Secretary Sandya Wijebandara. Sources said last night that she would now revert to her earlier position as Additional Secretary to the Ministry.

Dr. Samaratunga till now served as the Secretary to the Environment Ministry and it was not clear whether he would continue to hold both posts. (RA)





Minister of Cooperatives and Internal Trade Johnston Fernando said that the loss incurring Building Material Corporation (BMC), since it came under his purview in 2010, has made a profit of Rs. 50 million last year (2011).

He said that the BMC was running at a Rs. 20 million loss in 2010, but he managed to turn it around into a profit making institution. The BMC made a profit of only Rs. 2.1 million in 1999, while the turn over in 2010 was Rs. 250 million, and Rs. 990 million last year.

Minister Fernando said that the BMC was to be closed down, but President Mahinda Rajapaksa had entrusted him with the task of improving the institution and making it a profitable venture, which he as the Minister has been successful.

He said that Treasury assistance was sought earlier to meet the wages of the employees, and that he was happy it was not so now. He thanked BMC Chairman Pavara Dassanayake and workforce.





Now that the authorities have changed the name of Ananda Coomaraswamy Mawatha, disregarding the shining reputation of this Sri Lankan genius; I re-read the brilliant pen-portrait of A. K. etched by that journalist par-excellence D. B. Dhanapala in his – 'Among Those Present' as a sort of a personal penance for this ungrateful decision of some of my fellow men.

Believe me it made me cry inwardly for this ungrateful, unconscionable act of these sycophants. This is what D. B. D. says about this giant of a man.

While the whole world from China to Chile bowed in rapt veneration for over quarter of a century before this mighty giant, only Ceylon was vaguely unaware that such a person even existed, let alone realising he was a Ceylonese.

The giants have no place in a land of midgets, Lilliputians. Sadly, they rule the roost. They still do not know such a Ceylonese existed; a personage who opened the eyes of the ignorant westerners to the grandeur of the east. Otherwise, would they erase the memory of this colossus so unceremoniously by removing the only miserable semblance of homage that we paid him.

D. B. D. winds up his piece like an incantation to the memory of this savant.

He made us open our eyes to the beauty, the grandeur, the glory around us.

We who thought we were primitive he ennobled.

He rescued us from poverty by digging deep and discovering treasures we never thought we had.

From blindness to light, from poverty to riches from darkness to sunshine Coomaraswamy delivered us.

From blindness to light?

Sadly, we are still wallowing in darkness. No sunshine appears even in the furthest firmament.





IGP N. K. Illangakoon has ordered all police stations units and offices of the top brass to obtain the Caller-Line-Identification (CLI) facility, to all the telephones they use now, on or before January 15. The reason to obtain this facility was due to the fact that certain members of organized groups were calling police stations pretending to be powerful ministers or top brass of the police and demanding that suspects be released from custody.

Obtaining this facility would enable to identify those criminal elements.

In a recent incident someone had called the Peliyagoda HQIs office pretending to be Senior DIG Gamini Navaratne in an attempt to get a suspect released, an officer said.

HQI Peliyagoda Mangala Dehideniya made inquiries and found out that the call had been given by none other than the son of a retired SP and he was arrested and produced before Court.









The Government Medical Officers' Association (GMOA) Executive Committee yesterday held an emergency meeting and decided to take a final decision on the appointment of Prof. Carlo Fonseka, as the President of the Sri Lanka Medical Council, in collaboration with all medical professional bodies within the next two weeks.

Although GMOA and professional bodies, represented by Sri Lanka Medical Association (SLMA) Prof. T. Lamabadusuriya had requested the President's Secretary to arrange a meeting with President Mahinda Rajapaksa on December 5 on the contention issue, he had not given a date until now, the GMOA Assistant Secretary Dr.Upul Gunasekera said.

He said that the GMOA and all professional bodies did not have any personal animosity against Prof. Fonseka. The GMOA and professional bodies wanted to express their views on Prof. Fonseka's appointment as SLMC President. At the same time GMOA and all professional bodies wanted to extend the services of incumbent President Prof. Lalitha Mendis for another six months.

He pointed out that the SLMC President should be a person who could safeguard the professional integrity, dignity, transparency, accountability and independence of the institution. In case the SLMC President took politically biased decision, it would be a breach of professional etiquette.

Dr. Gunasekara added that all the professional bodies and GMOA would convene their stakeholders shortly to arrive at a final decision. GOMA would not request the President's office for a discussion on the issue, because the appointment had already been made.





NEW DELHI, January 1: Nuclear-armed India and Pakistan on Sunday exchanged lists of their nuclear installations and facilities under a two-decade-old pact that prohibits attacks on their respective atomic assets.

The signing took places days after senior officials of the two sides held talks in Pakistan's capital Islamabad on nuclear and conventional confidence-building measures, or CBMs.

The governments of the two countries are required to exchange lists of their nuclear installations and facilities on January 1 every year under the terms of the "Agreement on Prohibition of Attacks against Nuclear Installations and Facilities" that was signed in December 1988.

"In accordance with the aforesaid agreement, a list of requisite facilities in Pakistan was given to the Indian High Commission official at the Foreign Office today at 11.30 (Pakistan time)," a statement from the Pakistan Foreign Office said. A similar statement was issued by the Indian Ministry of External Affairs here.

The Indian side also handed over its list to an official of the Pakistan High Commission in India at the Ministry of External Affairs in New Delhi at 1200 hours IST.

This was the 21st consecutive year that the lists of nuclear facilities were exchanged between the two neighbours since 1992.

The exchange was conducted even during a freeze in bilateral ties after the 2008 Mumbai attacks that were carried out by Pakistan-based Lashker-e-Taiba terror group.

The two sides also exchanged list of prisoners currently being held in each other's jails under a separate pact.

The two countries are required to exchange lists of prisoners twice a year under the Agreement on Consular Access signed in May 2008.

India and Pakistan resumed their peace process early last year after a gap of almost two years.

Following two-day talks on nuclear and conventional confidence-building measures last week, the two countries agreed to move forward on proposals to extend two key agreements on pre-notification of ballistic missile tests and reducing the risk from accidents related to nuclear weapons.

A Joint Working Group agreed to recommend to the two Foreign Secretaries to extend the validity of the "Agreement on Reducing the Risk from Accidents Relating to Nuclear Weapons" for five years.

It also agreed to recommend the extension of the "Agreement on Pre-Notification of Flight Testing of Ballistic Missiles" by five years.

This pact is set to expire in February.

The two sides reviewed a range of existing CBMs and discussed proposals for additional measures in areas where they could make forward movement.





Acting NugegodaMagistrate Suneetha Nanayakkara yesterday released the 18th suspect, Provincial Councillor Shirantha Amarasekera, wanted in connection with his alleged involvement in the attack on the UNP headquarters Sirikotha following the re-election of Opposition Leader Ranil Wickramasinghe as the party leader, on Dec. 19, on Rs 10,000 cash bail and Rs 500,000 surety bail after he surrendered to Court.

He was released on the same bail conditions as the other 17 suspects who were arrested earlier. He was also required to report to the Mirihana police every Sunday and to produce a certificate from a Grama Sevaka to the Court within a week.

The OIC Crimes Mirihana Police, Sub Inspector T. D. Herath told Court that the investigations were not complete and once it was over they would seek advice from the Attorney General.

At this juncture, Defence Counsel Wasantha Ranasinghe requested Court to release the 18th suspect who surrendered.

The police had informed Court that on December 19 an election was held to elect the party leader at Sirikotha, the UNP headquarters and following the election a section of the crowd who were on the road, stormed Sirikotha and started throwing various objects at the building causing damages. They also damaged the vehicles of Ranil Wickremesinghe and UNPs General Secretary Tissa Attanayake, the police charged. Attorney- at- law Madusanka Hewawitharana appeared for the prosecution and Attorneys-at – law Wasantha Ranasinghe, Vidura P. Manchanayake, Lakshman Galhena, Dayasiri Jayasekera, Asha Kahawatte, Ranjith Sudusinha, Keerthi Udawatte, Sunil Hettiarachchi, Nandana Balasuriya, Gayani Dikkumbura, Indika Jayaratne and Janaka Dias appeared for the defence.





Postal trade unions are once again threatening trade union action over the failure of authorities to remove the controversial Post Master General despite an inquiry headed by a retired High Court judge finding him guilty of a majority of charges levelled against him.

Posts Ministry Senior officials however said yesterday that a decision will be taken within the course of this month on the fate of the Postmaster General.

"We have already sent a charge sheet to the Cabinet Sub Committee, in turn they had sent to it to the Postmaster General. He has to go within two weeks," a senior official added.

Postmaster General, D. M. K. B. Dissanayake, who was to be removed from his post last month, has been retained till the end January through the intervention of some senior officials, The Island reliably learns.

Dissanayake, a member of the once prestigious administrative service, has been getting support from the SLAS union, which has threatened counter measures if he is abruptly removed.

Meanwhile, Postal workers attached to a number of trade unions yesterday threatened to strike once again if the government fails to remove the Postmaster General by the end of this month.

The joint postal trade union says that authorities have failed to address the concerns raised by the postal trade unions and take action against the Postmaster General.

Joint Trade Union spokesperson Chinthaka Bandara said that authorities had not yet found solutions to the crisis in the Postal Department caused due to the actions of the Postmaster General.

Bandara said that authorities had not kept any of the promises made to the workers when the postal workers resorted to trade union action a few months back calling for the removal of the Post Master General.

The postal service in the country was crippled for several days when the postal workers launched trade union action in November.

In November, in the absence of President Mahinda Rajapaksa from the country, the Cabinet did not take any decision against Post Master General despite him being found guilty of 16 charges.

Meanwhile, a number of unions attached to the Postal Department said that they would launch frequent protests campaigns till the Postmaster General was removed.

Bandara said that the trade unions would resort to strike action if their agitations went unheard.

The trade unions of the Postal Department initiated trade union action against the Post Master General last May. Following which the government appointed a three-member committee to probe the allegations against him.

The committee was headed by retired High Court Judge Nihal Silva. Its other members were C. Maliyaddha and C. Wirithimulla.

The committee found Dissanayake guilty on 16 out of 26 charges levelled against him and partially guilty of five counts.





What all-rounder Jacques Kallis has achieved in Test cricket is legendary and the 36-year-old will add another feather to his cap when he will become the first South African to play 150 Test Matches in the third Test against Sri Lanka today here in Cape Town, his hometown. Kallis, the sixth Test cricketer to achieve the milestone, is the fourth highest run getter in Test cricket, but what the Tendulkars, Pontings and Dravids, the three who have scored more runs in Tests than him, lack is the 278 Test wickets he has to his credit.

The series against Sri Lanka has been a tough one for Kallis as he was dismissed for a pair in Durban where Sri Lanka recorded their first Test win on South African soil. So far in the series, Kallis has not been able to score a half-century or take a wicket.

"I suppose that was his first pair in his career in all forms of the game. So the guys have jumped on about it and given him a bit of stick. He has given us a hard time throughout our careers and we have made it count," a smiling South African captain Graeme Smith said yesterday.

"If I know him well, he's the most stubborn man in the world and there's no doubt in my mind that he is really hungry to put things right in this Test. I don't think he has produced the standards he has done throughout his career and I am sure there's a good fire burning to put things right in this Test Match," Smith added.

"It's going to be his 150th Test Match and it's an incredible feat and something that needs to be acknowledged. As an all-rounder to play 150 Test Matches with the highest standards he has produced is outstanding. I know he is extremely motivated to do well."

Smith added that the Proteas were disappointed following their defeat in Durban, but were determined to put out a good show in Cape Town. "It's been a pretty tough time for us. It's been an embarrassing couple of days after the Test Match. We let ourselves down and let lot of people down by not playing to the standards we are capable of. As a team it's about bouncing back and getting things right over the next couple of days," he added.

South Africa have not lost a Test in Cape Town other than to Australia since their readmission to international cricket. The Proteas have won 15 of the 23 Tests played here since 1991. "I don't know, I wish I could tell you. Maybe in general guys are happy playing here, maybe because of the good results we have had and the feel good factor. But to give you the scientific formula, I wish I understood a bit more myself," Smith said in response to the reason for South Africa to do well here.





St. Joseph's College had the edge over St. Sebastian's College at the end of the first day's play of their Under-19 cricket encounter, as they restricted their visitors to 113 for eight wickets at close after posting 261 runs, at Darley Road, Colombo yesterday.

Deciding to bat first, a century by skipper Vidusha Jayasinghe propelled the home team to 261 runs. Jayasinghe scored 18 fours and a six in his knock which came in 120 balls.

Deciding to bowl first, Ananda College skittled out Lumbini College for 118 runs as Tiran Wijesuriya and Pasindu Madushan shared seven wickets between them in their match which commenced at Colts Ground yesterday.

Sent in to bat first, fine half centuries scored by Supun Subasinghe and Milan Abeysekara powered Royal College to 290 runs, while spinner Saranga Rajaguru picked up five wickets for St. Anthony's College, Katugastota in their Under-19 match which commenced at Reid Avenue yesterday. St. Anthony's were 96 for six wickets at close.

Twenty one wickets fell on day one of the Under-19 Division II tournament encounter between Siri Piyaratana College, Padukka and Bandaranaike College, Gampaha at Padukka yesterday. The two teams were tied on first innings scores.





UNP Deputy Leader Sajith Premadasa yesterday criticized a move to reduce the representation of the youth in local government bodies.

Parliamentarian Premadasa alleged that the proposed Local Government Election Amendment Bill had recommended the reduction of the youth representation to 12.5 per cent from the present 40 per cent. Responding to a query by The Island, Premadsa said according to the proposed Bill, those in the age group of 18 to 35 would receive 12.5 per cent of total nominations, while the women would receive a 12.5 per cent share.

Premadasa said that each category should be given a 25 per cent share in nominations. Nothing could be as bad as reducing the youth representation at a time the country needed young blood to take the lead. Asked whether he would raise this issue in parliament, Premadasa said that he intended to move an amendment to the Local Government Election Amendment Bill seeking 25 per cent share of nominations to those in the age group of 18 to 35 and the women.

Asked why political parties, particularly the UNP, couldn't ensure a fair share of nominations to youth and women, the UNPer said that political parties would never address such issues without parliamentary intervention.









Middle distance runner Chaminda Wijekoon enjoyed a highly successful 2011. Wijekoon won a bronze medal at the Asian Athletics Championships, became the first Sri Lankan to run in a men's 1,500 metres semi-final at the IAAF World Championships and also became the first Sri Lankan to run the 1,500 metres below 3.40 seconds.

Yet, for Wijekoon getting proper medical treatment for his nagging heel injury was the best thing to happen during the year as it would "augur well for" in his quest to "qualify for the London Olympics."

"Getting proper medical treatment for my injury was probably the best that happened during the year 2011. It brightens my Olympic prospects," Wijekoon told The Island before he left for Kenya on Friday for his final preparation to qualify for the London Olympics.

Having clocked 3:39.61 seconds to set a new Sri Lanka record at the IAAF World Championships, Wijekoon is just a second behind achieving qualifying standards (B standards) for the London Olympics. "Certainly, I achieved a lot of things during 2011. But getting proper treatment for my injury was vital. I was suffering from the injury for more than one year. General Palitha Fernando (the President of the Athletics Association of Sri Lanka) saw what I was undergoing and got the help of professor Arjuna de Silva (Director of the Medical Unit of the Ministry of Sports) to send me to Australia for treatment. That was a big relief."

In Melbourne, David Young the orthopeadic surgeon who is well known for helping several Sri Lanka sportsmen, including spin great Muttiah Muralitharan, overcome their injuries, attended to Wijekoon's injury. "I underwent treatment and had to be bed rested for two weeks. I was well looked after by Sri Lankans there. I should mention the names of Palitha Munasinghe and Sarath who attended to my needs."

"A specially made inner sole was prepared for me. As the doctor predicted, I suffered a degree of pain in my knees once I started using it on my return. But now I am recovering from those pains with the help of the treatment I am getting now from the sports medicine unit," explained Wijekoon, who is thankful for the marked improvement in the approach of the Sports Medicine Unit for the needs of the athletes.

"There is a big improvement in the way the Sports Medicine Unit approaches sportsmen. We can for the first time directly walk in to the Director's office and relate our problems. Professor Arjuna is available for us at any time. That is a big difference compared to what existed in the past."

Commenting on the progress he has made after training in Kenya, Wijekoon said that he had already repaid those who kept faith in him by achieving success at regional level. "I have repaid the AASL and the NOC by winning Sri Lanka's first gold at the SA Games. We had only won silver at the SA Games before. But I went on to win a gold medal. I also came in fourth at the Commonwealth Games. I won gold at the Lusophony Games. By doing so I have repaid but now it is my turn to look at bigger things. Even though I could not qualify for the IAAF World Championship I did not shame those who selected me as a wildcard entrant. I managed to make an impact. So, whether I qualify for Olympics or not, I will do my best if I am selected even as a wild card entrant. I will have to discus the matter with my coach and see what he has arranged for me in Kenya. Whether I should fully focus on qualifying for the London event will depend on the way I recover from the injury and what he (the coach) has planned for me. If he says let's wait until you get accustomed to the new inner sole and fully recover from the injury then I will have to wait," explained Wijekoon.

Summing up his performances in 2011, Wijekoon rated his bronze medal winning feat in Kobe Japan at the Asian Championship ahead of his record mark at the IAAF World Championship in Korea. "My performance in Japan was my best. I had fever on the day I landed. I had fever when I started training. It was the same on the race day. Yet, I managed to adhere to what my coach advised. I trained according to his guidance and finally I was asked to run to the last drop of my ability. I just did that to win the medal. I rate it ahead of the World Championship performance."

Wijekoon thanked the National Olympic Committee and the Athletics Association of Sri Lanka for arranging for his training in Kenya, where the world's top middle and long distance runners train.





The ATM network of the Commercial Bank of Ceylon has connected its milestone 500th terminal, further consolidating its status as the largest electronic cash dispensing system owned by a single bank in Sri Lanka, the bank announced yesterday.

This landmark was reached with the opening of an ATM at Maradana Railway Station. Commercial Bank's ATM network has grown rapidly, adding 100 terminals in the past five months.

On average, the Bank's ATM network dispenses approximately Rs 600 million daily, the highest volume by a cash dispensing facility in Sri Lanka, and processes on average 140,000 transactions a day. The Bank's ATMs also hold the top spot in terms of reliability, with the highest 'up-time' according to statistics.

"Our transaction figures speak for themselves," said Rohan Muttiah, Chief Information Officer of Commercial Bank. "They prove that the Commercial Bank's ATM network plays an important part in the lives of the citizens of the country, and are also testimony to the reliability of the equipment and the high quality of our maintenance."

Located in every district of the country, especially in the vicinity of major cities, Commercial Bank teller machines are installed at 213 branches of the Bank as well as at 100 conveniently accessible off-site locations.

In addition to facilitating withdrawals, the Bank's ATM machines enable convenient settlement of water and electricity bills, bills of Dialog, Mobitel, Etisalat, Hutch and Lanka Bell networks, and Commercial Bank Credit Card payments 24-hours a day, 365-days of the year. The Bank's network of teller machines is also linked with millions of ATMs across the world.





While joining the chorus of praise for S. L. Gunasekera's 'Lore of the Law' I am afraid I have to strike(!) a slightly discordant note – not about the book, but about a 'rite of passage' he describes as integral to the Thomian [Mt.L] way of life.

This is the corporal punishment of 'caning' errant schoolboys. This form of child abuse [in today-speak] had been obviously adopted with relish by the Missionary Public Schools of Colonial Ceylon from those bastions of pederasty, the real Public Schools of Old Blighty. The homo-eroticism of the ritual is obvious when the errant schoolboy enters the Warden's sanctum and has to point his boyish buttocks to the pedagogue for assault by the latter's rod (cane, in this instance).

Thank goodness Col. Olcott, coming from a more liberal America, never introduced this ghastly torture to the Buddhist Colleges he established.





SYDNEY (AP) — Sachin Tendulkar hopes that there's safety, or at least comfort, in numbers at the Sydney Cricket Ground as India attempts to level the four-Test series with Australia.

Tendulkar, still in search of his 100th international century, has 664 runs at an average of 221.33 in four Tests at the SCG. In 2004 he shared a record SCG fourth-wicket partnership with V.V.S. Laxman — they added 353 with Tendulkar scoring an unbeaten 241 — as India declared its first-innings at 705-7 in the drawn fourth Test. Both Tendulkar and Laxman also scored centuries in the first innings of the acrimonious 2008 Test at the SCG.

India, which lost the series-opening Test in Melbourne last week by 122 runs, has never won a Test series in Australia. But it has been involved in some epic matches at the ground and will be more confident than usual with a Tendulkar milestone on the line.

Skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni has no concerns about Tendulkar's quest for a 100th hundred becoming a distraction for the team.

"Well for us it's good. Wherever we go people talk about it but definitely as a team we would like him to score it as soon as possible for no other reason than it's a big milestone that we'd love to enjoy and be a part of his success," Dhoni said Monday. think it just distracts the media which is good for us."

"For Sachin, it's not the first time where he's close to a milestone. Of course the quicker he achieves it, it will ease off a bit of the so-called pressure that's on him."

Rohit Sharma, an outside chance to make his Test debut at the expense of middle-order batsman Virat Kohli, said the SCG was a venue most of his team-mates enjoyed.

"You look at the past record, what we've done in Sydney, it's tremendous, whether it's one-day cricket or Test cricket," he said. "Individual players have performed really well. Hopefully Sydney turns out lucky again for us in this Test match."

Despite all the hype of Tendulkar's quest for 100 hundreds, and an SCG crowd that would probably love to see it happen, Michael Clarke's Australian line-up would just as soon see the drought continue.

"I can assure you that everyone in our dressing room does not want him to make a 100," veteran batsman Mike Hussey said. "I am a bit nervous because the stars seem to be aligning with Sachin needing one more 100. (It's) the 100th Test match in Sydney, he's made runs here before."

The last time Australia hosted India at the SCG was in 2008, when relations between the teams reached an all-time low.

Clarke's three wickets in the final overs of the fifth day of that match delivered the Australians a world record-equalling 16th consecutive Test win, but allegations Andrew Symonds had been racially abused by Indian spinner Harbhajan Singh overshadowed the outcome. There was speculation that India proposed boycotting the remainder of the tour.

"That was a long time ago and the personalities and teams have changed quite a lot, particularly in our team," Hussey said. "That's gone, that's in the past. I think the players that were involved in all the controversies have moved on, even played together."

Hussey believes this year's SCG Test pitch could see a return to the drier, more spin-friendly wickets of the past.

"Just from walking across the ground it looks a lot less green than it has been the last few years," Hussey said. "Certainly in the last few years I think the Sydney pitch has changed texture from when it used to be a real dustbowl and helped the spinners."

With that in mind, Australia announced an unchanged side from the Melbourne Test, retaining off-spiner Nathan Lyon. Fast bowler Ryan Harris, who did not recover from injury in time to play in Melbourne, was named as the 12th man.

"Ryan been a wonderful bowler for us ... it was tough to leave him out, but we've stuck with the winning team in Melbourne," Clarke said.

India will not name its team until just before the toss Tuesday, but is expected to stick with the same team from Melbourne.





Revolutionizing internet usage across the country whilst expanding Sri Lanka's broadband capacity, SLT Broadband proudly announces up to 4 times faster internet speeds, taking the speeds up to as much as 16 Mbps. The telco said it had unveiled a significant enhancement to the SLT Broadband user experience for existing and new customers from 1st January 2012 to usher in the New Year.

"SLT Broadband has simultaneously launched 4 new exciting high-speed broadband value packages and has enhanced the speeds and volumes of existing packages as a unique way in which to celebrate the New Year and improve Internet experience for SLT Broadband customers. This has given customers a better selection of broadband packages in order for them to choose the ideal package that suit their specific need and budget," the company said in a statement.

"Since Sri Lanka is poised to achieve greater economic growth and social prosperity in the New Year, and as the national telecommunications service provider, SLT can boost the country's potential by enhancing the Internet speeds up to 4 times and launching four new broadband packages to celebrate the dawn of 2012. SLT has a close relationship with its customers and sensitivity to the broadband needs of the nation have inspired them to enhance the broadband capacity significantly, thereby providing unmatched high speeds upto 16 Mbps. The fast speeds and uninterrupted broadband connections cater to the constantly evolving diverse Internet needs of citizens.

SLT perseveres in its 'One Country, One Voice' motto, developing products and services to weave a tight national fabric that binds them all together in unity. SLT is also confident that the enhanced broadband facilities will enhance opportunities for knowledge gathering, communication and connectivity for SLT broadband users through the year. This is SLT's way of wishing all their customers a peaceful and prosperous New Year!





J. M.D. Indika, B. A. Sanjeewa and G. Harrison shared honours on day one of the qualifying rounds of the Sri Lanka Open Golf Championship, worked off at Royal Colombo Golf Club in Colombo yesterday.

The qualifying round attracted a huge number of golfers with 98 competing for 37 slots in the major tournament. The championship will conclude on Friday.

Sri Lanka Open Golf Championship 2011 can be considered as one of the toughest tournaments with 27 golfers been professionals and many past winners taking part.

While seven time Open Champion K. Nandasena Perera takes part again this time, former champions M. Amarapadma and Anura Rohana are some of the other likely candidates for the title. Sri Lanka National Amateur Champions K. Nandasena Perera, D. J. D. Perera, K. Prabagaran, Mithun Perera and N. Thangarajah also have shaped up well for this tournament.

B. G. Lalith Kumara, twice All India Amateur Champion, and Toranshahi from Nepal, who is a professional golfer, are also expected to show their class during this Championship.

The event is sponsored by Caterpillar Earth Moving Equipment agents UTE, while Coca-Cola is a co-sponsor. (RS)





Mohan de Silva, who vied for the post of vice presidency from the Thilanga Sumathipala faction in today's Sri Lanka Cricket (SLC) elections, announced last night that they would pull out from the cricket board elections.

"The (SLC) elections are not held in just and fair manner. The whole procedure prior to the elections violated the cricket board constitution. We have made our protest. We won't contest at this elections," said de Silva last night to The Island.

"We're very hurt. Our entire group comprised of qualified individuals who could've served the game immensely had we were elected. We decided to contest this time in spite of obstacles, solely because of the requests made by the member clubs who have experienced a difficult time during the time the board was run by interim committees," de Silva said.









ABUJA, Nigeria (AP) — Nigeria is ending fuel subsidies, an official said, a move that is sure to be unpopular in the oil-rich nation where citizens have come to expect cheap fuel as one of their few government benefits.

The government has said the move will save the country some $8 billion, some of which will be dedicated to much-needed infrastructure projects. Previous attempts to lift the subsidies have been met with nationwide strike actions.

"Consumers are assured of adequate supply of quality products at prices that are competitive and non-exploitative and so there is no need for anyone to engage in panic buying or product hoarding," the statement read.

However, less than an hour after Sunday's announcement, some gas stations in the commercial capital of Lagos had stopped selling gas, presumably in the hope of selling it post-subsidy for more than the current price of about $1.70 per gallon (45 cents per liter).





NEW DELHI, January 2: Bollywood laughed its way to the bank in 2011 after incurring huge losses during the previous three years.

A year-end report by film trade analysts reveals that the 120 Bollywood films made in Hindi and released during 2011 have raked in a total of INR 25.9 billion, or nearly LKR 52 billion or about half a billion US dollars.

(Hindi happens to be the mother tongue of a third of India's 1,234 million people. India being a triligual society, Hindi and English are taught in schools along with the children's mother tongue. Therefore, many of those who speak other languages at home can also speak, read, and write Hindi, and watch Hindi films.

(Indian diaspora is 25-million-strong, spread across the globe. Indians living overseas along with South Asian diaspora constitute a major chunk of global audience for Bollywood films. The success of Hollywood-made films such as "Gandhi" and "Slumdog Millionaire" have generated considerable interest in Indian films in audiences the world over).

Says trade analyst Joginder Tuteja: "The moolah came in from all directions, and the net collection at the domestic box office alone is about INR 17.4 billion, or LKR 34.8 billion. However, the revenue mostly came from 15 to 20 major movies."

Film trade pundit Atul Mohan adds: "We have gone back to making more films for single screens and the masses. The first five months were not that good, but we made up splendidly in later months of the year."

For the first time in the history of the Indian cinema, four Hindi films have grossed one billion Indian rupees, or LKR 2 billion, each. They are: "Ready" and "Bodyguard" starring Salman Khan, Ajay Devgun's "Singham," and "RA.One," the Shahrukh Khan-starrer.

Some portions of "Ready" were shot in Sri Lanka.

Trade analyst Komal Nahata says: "The satellite and music rights and other subsidies were also a major source of revenue. In fact, movies such as "Ra.One" could have made more money in theatres but, since the makers sold its satellite rights, a large chunk of the audience just waited for the movies to come on television."

Besides the four billion-rupee-grossers, there were a few more big earners. They include: "Delhi Belly," "Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara," "The Dirty Picture," and "Rockstar."

Some expensive films ended up as duds, and they include "Game," "Dum Maaro Dum," "Aarakshan," and "Mausam."

Most of the 80 small-budget movies made in 2011 have bombed at the box office, barring a few notable exceptions such as "Ragini MMS" and "Pyaar Ka Punchnama."

Most of the big budget Hindi films are now being distributed by Hollywood film studios, and released simultaneously the world over, including in Sri Lanka. Some of them are also dubbed into Tamil and Telugu and released in cinema-crazy Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh states along with the Hindi version in the rest of India.

Films like "My Name is Khan" and "3 Idiots" have been dubbed into Chinese, Arabic and other languages and released the world over. And they have been received well by non-South Asian audiences the world over.





Ministry of Justice Secretary Suhada Gamlath says internal human trafficking was on the rise, especially with regard to the sex trade.

He made these comments speaking at a workshop on Human Trafficking convened by the ILO recently. He said apart from exportable human trafficking, there was also the least discussed phenomenon of internal trafficking of persons, mainly women and children.

"Unfortunately the law ambiguous with reference to massage parlours, saunas, and iniquitous dens of ill repute that transgress basic laws that are supposed to protect people," Gamlath said.

"The employable age for children is currently 14 years. That is the law. But that is not enough because incessant exploitation of children prevents their basic right to education and normal up-bringing. The employable age should be increased to 18 years at least," he said expressing his views where he did not state that the government was reviewing the situation and that the law may be changed.

He also made pointed remarks that it was the job of the media high-light injustices that emerged periodically. "Simultaneously, incursion of the media to handle allied subjects could not be over-stressed, and its value as the watch-dog press should be more precise, and such reporting should be encouraged and sustained," Gamlath said.

Young women were lured to the city, particularly, Colombo, Galle, and Kandy, with the promise of lucrative employment, but these women end up as sex workers. Gamlath said he was not able to say how many of these questionable public facilities like saunas, and massage parlours were in business in the city of Colombo. But numbers were "quite substantial, and growing".

He said there were inadequacies in the law. He did not expand on any moves that corrective legal enactments would be in place to stem the flow of such human trafficking.

Internal trafficking included the sex trade, tourism, and also the estate sector. The trade in employment of young women as servants eventually led to prostitution.





LBO: Household access to telephones is on par with electricity, television, and radio in Sri Lanka mainly because of the boom in mobile phones, and are set to overtake TV and radio, a new study said.

Access to household phones is greater than to transport in the island, the study of Asian countries by the LIRNEasia think tank said.

SMS (short message service) use, gaming and balance checking has decreased but camera and radio use increased in Sri Lanka from 2008 to 2011, said the study on use of information communications technology, mostly phones, among poor people in emerging Asian economies.





The outgoing Indonesian ambassador to Sri Lanka, Djafar Husein said yesterday that over the last three years,he had done his outmost to boost reciprocal trade and tourism between the two countries.

While admitting that the balance of trade was heavily in favour of Indonesia,he told "The Island" in a brief interview that there had been an improvement with Sri Lankan exports topping US$ 90 million last year,the bulk of which comprised tea,apparels and gems.

In contrast Indonesian exports totalled US$ 400 million with the main products being tyres (27 percent of Sri Lankan market), car batteries ,paper and furniture,the ambassador said adding that good bilateral relations meant nothing if there were no reciprocal financial benefits.

When he arrived in Colombo in January 2008,the embassy was issuing only around 25 visas per day,but there had been a gradual increase with 600 Sri Lankan businessman and tourists visiting Indonesia last month alone and the total for 2011 exceeding 6000,Husein noted.

Asked about the future prospects for both countries ,he said that a lot depended on the private sector since the best results are bound to occur in systems where governments play the role of facilitator,while intervening only when it was really essential and based on acceptable reasons.

Throughout his tenure, he had done his best to promote people to people,trade and tourist contacts and this included arranging for 53 Sri Lankan Ministers to visit Indonesia,the ambassador said while noting that the air fare from Colombo to Jakarta on Mihin Air was Rs.30,000 in comparison Rs.70,000 on Singapore Airlines.

In the last few months,he had visited several cities in the North including Jaffna,Killinochchi and Mullaithivu at the invitation of Economic Development Minister Basil Rajapaksa and Defence Secretary Gothabaya Rajapaksa, with view to exploring economic opportunities in the former war ravaged areas.

Hussein, said that he had also promoted Buddhist ties and the Buddhist Gallery at the Indonesian Center in Kandy,was a testimony to his efforts.

Asked for his perceptions and predictions for Sri Lanka he said "I have seen both the bad and good times.I think the Mahinda Rajapaksa government is on the right track.Some people complain of too much traffic in Kandy, but looked at from a different perspective,it also indicates development.The main thing is not to get distracted too much while persuing your goals."





With the dawn of the New Year, it can be assumed that Sri Lanka's tennis has three main missions to accomplish during this year.

* Firstly, it should drive in the right direction and maximise the use of the Sri Lanka Tennis Association's (SLTA) outstations junior development programme, conducted with the assistance of the International Tennis Federation (ITF), which has shown enormous potential to carry this 'posh man's game' to the Lankan village.

* Secondly, Sri Lanka has to make certain that her players emerge victorious, or at least continue to perform creditably well, in the international competitions the country will take part in women's, men's, junior and wheelchair tennis. In this regard, the significant Davis Cup men's championship that is coming up next February is the key event to show the country's strength in the sport. There, the Sri Lanka team will be contesting in the first round tie of the prestigious Asia-Oceania Zone Group-II, against the mighty Thais in Colombo from Feb. 10-12. It was only in 2011, where Sri Lanka returned to Group-II after emerging first out of eight participating countries in her Group-III campaign staged in Colombo.

* Thirdly, the sad state of affairs in the sphere of administration, that has hindered its smooth progress, needs to be rectified with the help of the people with genuine intent to develop the sport in the island. The last four years have seen bitter battles being waged for control of the SLTA and some eerie manipulative methods of some officials that only made the governing body lose its focus which should always be on the well-being of the sport in the country.

(Part 3 of the 2011 year-end review of Sri Lanka's tennis will appear in next 'Sunday Island – Sportstar' magazine on Jan. 8)





Great moments, heroic acts, major controversies and some of cricket's greatest names - there's not much that hasn't happened in the SCG's Test match history.

The second Test between Australia and India starting on Tuesday will be the 100th at the Moore Park venue, just the third ground worldwide after Lord's and the MCG to achieve the milestone.

It all began in 1882 when the sixth Test match in history was held at the SCG between old rivals Australia and England.

In a low-scoring affair off-spinner Joey Palmer took 11 wickets including a first innings haul of 7-68 as Australia claimed a five-wicket win on their way to a 2-0 Ashes series win.

Given the history between Australia and England it's not surprising Ashes clashes dominated the early history of Test action at the SCG.

That rivalry reached its nadir during the infamous Bodyline series in 1932-33 and it was at the SCG where Australian fans got their first look in a Test match at English captain Douglas Jardine's controversial leg theory tactics.

Fast bowler Harold Larwood took 10 wickets as England romped to a 10 wicket win on their way to a controversial 4-1 series victory.

Despite the loss Stan McCabe played one of the great knocks at the SCG, scoring an unbeaten 187 amid the barrage of deliveries aimed at his upper body, an innings cricket historian David Frith described as "among the most stirring innings Test cricket has ever produced".

The iconic fan Stephen Gascoigne, better known as Yabba, epitomised Australian's feelings towards Jardine when he uttered his famous quip at the English skipper after he tried to wave away a fly while out in the field.

England were again involved in controversy at the SCG almost four decades later when paceman John Snow hit Australian tailender Terry Jenner with a bouncer during the last Test of the 1970-71 Ashes.

A fan grabbed Snow by the arm when the English quick returned to his fielding position on the boundary and cans rained down from the stands onto the field, prompting England captain Ray Illingworth to lead his team from the ground in the first walk-off in Test history.

The modern era has had its controversies as well, none more than the fiery 2008 Test the last time India were on these shores.

Michael Clarke was the unlikely hero with the ball as Australia wrapped up record-equalling 16th straight Test win with a late flurry of wickets on day five.

But it was Andrew Symonds' allegation that Indian off-spinner Harbhajan Singh had called him a monkey which dominated discussion, the eventual hearing into the incident resulting in a suspended three-match ban for the Indian and a fiery rebuke from Symonds' friend and team-mate Matthew Hayden.

That match and its bitter aftermath certainly did little for Indian-Australian relations on the cricket pitch but this summer's visitors have plenty of SCG highlights to add to the ground's history.

Their mammoth 7(dec)-705 in the first innings in 2004 is the highest Test total at the ground and it was at the SCG that Sachin Tendulkar announced himself to Australian audiences.

At the 1992 Test the 18-year-old Tendulkar became the youngest player to score a century at that level in Australia when he made an unbeaten 148.

Tendulkar is just one of many famous names to make their mark at the ground.

Shane Warne's 300th Test wicket was secured at the SCG in 1998, while West Indian great Brian Lara scored 277 as a 23-year-old and went on to call his daughter Sydney in honour of the city he fell in love with.

Former Australian captains Allan Border and Steve Waugh have special SCG memories as well.

Waugh's dramatic career-saving century in 2003, posting three figures with a boundary off the final ball of the second day's play against England, has since been immortalised in a bronze statue outside the ground's dressing rooms.

Border's moment of Sydney glory was a touch more unconventional for the left-handed batsman.

He never scored a Test hundred at the venue but against the Viv Richards-led West Indies in 1989 he claimed 11 of his 39 Test wickets in one match, going on to post the best bowling figures by an Australian Test captain in the victory.

Iconic, revered and much-loved, the SCG is a cornerstone of cricket's history - a ground with as many stories to tell as any other in the world. (AAP)





The Police Department will upgrade the existing Closed Circuit Television Camera system, within the Colombo city, where not only the number plate of the offending vehicle will be spotted but also the faces and other body features of the driver and passengers will be registered.

The CCTV system which had been confined to Colmbo, will be extended to the suburbs, Police spokesman SP Ajith Rohana told The Island yesterday.

He said that the two new systems will be the Automated Number Plate Identifying System and the Automated Facial Identification System. They are in the process of being implemented.

He explained that in contrast to the existing system, where only moving vehicles and road scenes could be seen, the new system in the Automated Number Plate Identifying System will enable it to record the number plate figures and other particulars of the vehicle while the Automated facial Identification system, will not only detect the colour of the attire of the passengers, but also the other special features such as birthmarks and pimples as well.

Meanwhile, the Police Department will also enable its 431 Police stations countrywide to be Internet savvy, which will mean that all details of crimes will be online and there will not be a need for sending circulars and mails. This project will be completed at a cost of Rs. 40 million.

Quoting an example, he said that if there is an unidentified body in Tissamaharama, the details would be accessible to even the Jaffna Police station and that there wpild not be a need for telephone and radio messages.

"Even if there is criminal activity, all police stations would be intimated through the online process," he said .





India's leading scientist and renowned environment activist, Dr. Sunita Narain says the Durban talks will go down in climate history as one where global distrust has peaked.

She strongly believes that building trust will be difficult in this increasingly divided and discordant atmosphere and in this situation, action on an issue as contested, as climate change will be impossible.

Furthermore, she says if the future agreement, which will be negotiated in the next two years, is not based on the underlying condition of equity in past and future carbon budgets, then this city of Durban will become famous for starting a new era of climate apartheid.

At the recently concluded, Durban talks, The Island Financial Review learns, the most interesting event was, India's side event, organised by the country's premier institution, the Centre for Science and Environment in association with the Ministry of environment and forests, had a packed hall listening to a panel.

The panel included the Environment Minister Jayanthi Natarajan, CSE's director general Dr. Sunita Narain and deputy director general Chandra Bhushan, Charles Di Leva from the World Bank and Ambuj Sagar from the Indian Institute of Technology-Delhi. The subject of the discussion was 'the imperative of equity in climate negotiations'.

Speaking at the CoP17 side event, the minister made it clear that India will not compromise on the principles of equity and historical responsibility, which according to her, were the bulwarks on which all climate negotiations must rest.

She supported the contention made by Narain. Needles to say, Narain along with late CSE Chief, Anil Agarwal, did number of research on the climate change issue in the early nineties when many were least bothered about the topic Climate Change. Coming back to the side event in Durban in the evening, the Minister was of the strong view that India had a "right to grow".

After over 20 years of negotiations, Narain had pointed out, concrete consensus on climate was still eluding the world. The Cancun Agreement, according to her, was the latest debacle, where the burden had been shifted unjustly on to the developing world, without any concession on this critical right.

At Durban, India and China are being pilloried for their growing emissions and for being stumbling blocks to the negotiations, but the world is conveniently forgetting said Narain about the US emissions, which are still growing at four per cent.

Chandra Bhushan, who made a presentation on the CSE study on low-carbon growth, said that many industrial sectors in India had already achieved a high level of efficiency and low emission intensity. Even with a very ambitious mitigation programme, India will need the carbon space to grow

"I do not know how to start. I have heard people across the room carefully. I am from India and I represent 1.2 billion people. My country has a tiny per capita carbon footprint of 1.7 ton and our per capita GDP –Gross Domestic Product- is even lower," he added.

Bhushan says he was astonished and disturbed by the comments of Canada colleague who was pointing at India as to why, "We are against the roadmap. I am disturbed to find that a legally binding protocol to the Convention, negotiated just 14 years ago is now being junked in a cavalier manner. Countries which had signed and ratified it are walking away without even a polite goodbye. And yet, pointing at others.

I was also deeply moved listening to the comments of my colleagues and friends from the small island states. Our positions may be different, but their sentiments resonate with me very strongly. India has 600 islands which may be submerged, we have deltaic region in which millions of people live. We are absolutely at the forefront of the vulnerability of Climate Change."

Environment Minister Anura Priyadharshana Yapa expressed disappointment at the inability of the global community to meet their obligations under the Kyoto Protocol.

Sri Lanka presented four main points at the conference held in Durban. Sri Lanka described the vulnerabilities faced by the country as a developing island nation due to the effects of climate change.

Yapa said that developed countries must take adequate responsibility for the damage caused to the environment by those countries historically.

The minister set out Sri Lanka's actions to mitigate climate change including the planting of millions of trees under the Deyata Sevana programme in 2010 and 2011.

Explaining the difficulty in reaching an agreement, he said various differing stances taken by different countries and the purely self- serving and unprincipled stance of a number of wealthy, developed nations were extremely saddening.

The other members of the Sri Lankan delegation to the conference included Disaster Management Minister Mahinda Amaraweera, Power and Energy Minister Patali Champika Ranawaka, the ministerial secretaries, officers in charge of the subject in the ministries, the secretary of the Central Environmental Authority, Chief Ministers for the Southern Province and the Central Province and the ministerial Secretaries.

More than 190 countries met for two weeks for the latest round of United Nations climate change negotiations. The aim of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) is to stop global warming by limiting global carbon emissions. The talks dragged on two days longer than expected, making this the longest UNFCCC meeting ever experienced.

At the end of the gruelling talks the world decided on the "Durban Platform for Enhanced Action". The two-page document commits all countries to cutting carbon for the first time. A "road map" will guide countries a legal deal to cut carbon in 2015, but it will only come into effect after 2020.

The EU and a few other developed countries have signed up to a second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol that ends in 2013. This will ensure that there is still some form of legally binding treaty to cut carbon in place in the interim eight years before the new agreement comes into force at the end of 2020. However, most of the developing world and the US remain in voluntary agreements to cut carbon until 2020.

The world has agreed to help poor countries cope with climate change through a new Green Climate Fund that will hand out around £60 billion per annum from 2020. However, again the details of the agreement are very vague. All that has been decided is that a body will be set up to distribute and manage the funds. It is not yet clear how the money will be raised. Possible plans to raise fund from a tax on shipping or aviation have not been signed off.

A scheme to pay poor countries not to chop down trees, Reducing Emissions from Degradation and Deforestation (REDD) has barely moved forward in the meeting as again countries cannot decide how to raise the cash. There are concerns that money from carbon markets could make it too corrupt and that indigenous people will be pushed out. However, REDD remains on the table and will be developed over the next few years as part of the new deal alongside rules in the Kyoto Protocol to stop deforestation.

There is still a lot of work to do on the agreement. The next UNFCCC meeting in Qatar next year will start negotiations towards the 2015 deal, including the kind of targets each country will sign up to. There will also be discussion of carbon cuts for the EU and a few other countries under the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol. The rest of the world will be pushed to increase their targets to cut carbon through voluntary agreements before 2020 through civil society and political pressure.

India emerged as the villain, after Natarajan, refused to sign up a deal that would commit the developing world to a strong legal treaty. She was backed by China, who also seemed reluctant to cut carbon at home.

However, although the protests by the world's second and third biggest carbon emitters claimed their concerns are based on "climate justice". They argue that they need to carry on emitting carbon to bring millions of people out of poverty over the next few decades.

The US was unusually quiet throughout the talks, but as the world's biggest emitter made it clear they were also happy with a weak legal outcome.

The EU are painting themselves as the heroes of the hour for rescuing the talks from collapsing but it could be a bitter victory as the deal is so vague and fails to cut carbon fast enough.

The South Africans were criticised for letting the conference go into extra time for two days but ultimately it has been a success for them by achieving some sort of a deal.

The Climate Change Secretariat, have to play a key role. No doubt there is wealth of information, but happenings taking place at snail space. Needless, Sri Lanka has to learn more from her big brother, India when it comes to sticking to strong policies and initiatives with regard to climate change issues.





The wife and two children of Premakumara Gunarathnam aka 'Kumara Mahattaya', said to be the leader of the JVP dissident group, who were detained for questioning at the Bandaranaike International Airport, from the early hours of yesterday, were finally released last night and they were scheduled to take a flight out at 1:00 a.m. today.

Police media spokesman Superintendent Ajith Rohana however said CID sleuths had questioned a woman and her two children, but they were unable to establish their relationship to anyone.

On instructions received from higher authorities all documents and bags accompanying them had also beeninspected by the sleuths, the SP said.

According to informed sources Dr. Champa Somaratna(47), the wife of Premakumara and their daughter Ama Udani Somaratna(18) and son Anula Amandana Somaratne(12), who are all Australian citizens. were about to return to Australia via Bangkok when they were detained while waiting to board a flight. They were returning after spending a holiday here.

Dr Somaratne who was earlier attached to Welisara Chest Hospital, sources said, had not divulged to her questioners that she was the wife of Premakumara. She had in turn asked on what grounds the authorities were detaining them as they were Australian citizens who were going back after a holiday. Authorities thereafter had returned the passports of the two children and continued to question Dr. Somaratne for possible violation of Immigration and Emigration laws.

Premakumara, who is technically a fugitive from the law here, as he had escaped from prison, after being arrested for his role in the attack on the Pallekele army camp in 1987, along with several others, however, according to insiders, could not be directly linked to Dr. Somaratna as her husband as when they got married he had done so under the assumed name Ratnayake Mudiyanselage Dayalal and according to sources this was the name of her husband given by Dr. Somaratna to her questioners yesterday.

An engineer by profession, according to JVP insiders, Premakumara was still in Sri Lanka having returned in September 2010.

The family had fled to Australia in May 2006.

They said two lawyersm of the JVP dissident factionm Nuwan Bopage and Ajith Kumara MP rushed to her assistance on the basis she had been an ex-full time member of the JVP, who had led the party list in the Kurunegala district at the 1994 general election.

Bopage told The Island that the family was released around 7:30 p.m., but they were not allowed to meet them at anytime during the long period of detention, running to more than 15 hours, the mother and two children underwent. They were only allowed to speak to them on the phone. Similarly, two Australian diplomats, who came to the airport to assist them, too were not allowed to meet them. But they had overheard the Australian diplomats repeatedly urging the authorities detaining them to either charge them or to release them.

Ironically, the country's intelligence services had not been armed with even a photograph of the woman till yesterday's detection, but she had been an active member of the JVP during its second uprising in the late 80s as a Peradeniya undergraduate and the sleuths who questioned her yesterday had in vain tried to gather information about that as well without success, sources said.

It was initially reported that a 47-year-old female with two children was detained for questioning due to 'suspicious behavior'. They were scheduled to board a Bangkok-bound flight at 1.00 a.m. (Jan. 02), sources said.





General view of the French parliament during the debate of the Armenian Genocide in Paris, Thursday, Dec. 22, 2011.

Few readers would have noticed the latest, truly incredible, law passed by the French Parliament. It is now a criminal offence in France to deny that the Turks killed Armenians 100 ago. The Turkish government has protested against this foul action by a fellow NATO member exhuming old skeletons. (Incidentally, Turkey and Armenia have established diplomatic ties). This action has been canvassed by the Armenian diaspora, cosily ensconced in France for almost a century.

I hope [vainly, I'm afraid] that our Foreign Ministry takes due note to pre-empt a similar move by the Tamil diaspora in France to initiate similar action against Sri Lanka. Our vigilant Ambassador Dayan J. is, perhaps, our only hope. Over to you Dayan J. - we have been warned.

Tissa Devendra

P. S.

I am no Cassandra, but my worst fears have been realised. A Sunday newspaper reports that France has [believe it or not] issued four (4) stamps honouring that genocidal monster Prabahkaran. The Ealam diaspora is moving faster than the Armenians! Ambassador Dayan may be flung into the Bastille if he denies the Ealam canard that our Army massacred innocent Tamils on the beaches of Mullaitivu.





Three persons arrested in connection with the abduction of student, attending a leading school in Colombo, were yesterday re-remanded till January 5 by the Mt. Lavinia Chief Magistrate Nirosha Fernando.

The suspects in this case were Suranga Wijesiri, Aruna Ruwansiri and Upul Ranjith.

They had been arrested by the Mt. Lavinia Police in connection with the kidnapping of a 15-year-old son of a doctor.

The complaint said that the student had been at his residence in Mt. Lavinia when three people had arrived in a van. They had tied up the boys mother and taken the boy away.

The woman had managed to untie herself and had complained to the police emergency.

The suspects had contacted the physician who was returning home from Kandy and initially demanded Rs.5 million to release the boy, the complaint alleged.

Subsequent to the complaint, police by way of tracking the mobile phone numbers, used by the suspects to demand ransom, apprehended them.

PC 34439 Hemantha Hettiarachi assisted by PC 79984 Mahes prosecuted.

Attorney-at-Law Athula Ranagala appeared for the first suspect. Jayantha Epa Seneviratne appeared for the second suspect and Tharanga Silva appeared for the third suspect.





Power and Energy Minister Champika Ranawaka yesterday requested the Ceylon Electricity Board officials to work with dignity and honesty, irrespective of their positions, to ensure that all would be provided with electricity before the end of 2012.

He told them that the dream of making Sri Lanka' Asia's Hub was not a distant reality anymore, beginning with the availability of electricity all 24 hours of the day.

He said that efficient service would certainly contribute to boost the economy of the country and every employee can be proud of his or her service for the betterment of the country. (IN)





I wrote two letters to the editor (published in The Island on 12 Nov. 12, 2010 and March 31, 2011) highlighting some errors in the English medium textbooks issued by the Education Department. Prof. Rathnajeevan Hoole, former Dean of the Engineering Faculty, Jaffna, too, wrote a couple of letters to the newspapers on the same subject. There were also some other parents did likewise.

The mistakes were mostly in the science and mathematics textbooks.

This year, there has been a remarkable improvement compared to the previous years. The Education Publication Department seems to have taken some extra care to eliminate errors in textbooks.

I write this letter to thank the Commissioner General Education Publication for having heeded criticism and taken remedial action. I believe his next step should be to further improve the standard of these textbooks.





President Mahinda Rajapaksa will soon kickstart a roadmap to implement the recommendations of the Lessons Learnt and Reconciliation Commission with the concurrence of all the political parties represented in Parliament and the general public.

The process had been set in motion with the report becoming a public document after being tabled in the House last month. President Rajapaksa would soon consult all political parties on the matter and place their views before the public, Government spokesman and Media Minister Keheliya Rambukwella told The Island last night.

The Minister explained that the government hoped to have a broad debate and make it as transparent as possible and it would have to take its course of time as the issues were diverse and the recommendations had to meet the aspirations of all the people, including those of the ethnic minorities.

"There were the critics of the government who surprisingly asked us when the recommendations of the report were to be implemented, barely a week after the report was tabled in Parliament and they think that those matters could be finalized in a hurry which cannot be so," he remarked.

He also said that the contents and the transparency of the report proved the sincerity and commitment of the President and the allegations that the report was camouflaged were all proved wrong. "That also included the people who were going to town on the Darsusman report making war crimes allegations against Sri Lanka and which was a virtual mirror image of the LTTE rump," he said.

Ramukwella also stressed that there would be considerations as to whether some of the recommendations in the LLRC report would be in accordance with the constitution as well. "This was not the Bible where all the sentences and the commas and the full stops are known but we will have to tread with care in our quest for a lasting and durable solution," he noted.

Meanwhile, UPFA General Secretary and Petroleum Minister Susil Premajayanth said that all constituent parties of the UPFA will be apprised on the need to have consensus on the issue with the commencement of sittings later this month.

The only drawback was that there was no time after the tabling of the LLRC report and soon after, the House was adjourned after the Budget debate. So, it would be after sittings resume that the debate on the recommendations of the LLRC would have to be deliberated on, he said.

Minister Premajayantha also said that there was a diversity of views among all political parties and those within the UPFA as well but stressed the need for consensus so that a durable and lasting solution to this vexed national issue could be arrived at.





The ASEAN flag was hoisted in Sri Lanka for the first time yesterday, during a ceremony held at the Indonesian Embassy premises in Colombo, with the Sri Lankan Army band playing the "ASEAN Way".

Foreign Minister G.L.Peiris represented Sri Lanka at the ceremony, which marked the heads of the ASEAN Diplomatic Missions in Colombo - Indonesia, Malaysia, Myanmar, Thailand, and Vietnam and Philippines, Honorary Consul, jointly hoisting the ASEAN Flag along with the national flags of their respective countries.

The army band also played the national and traditional songs of ASEAN member states.

Minister Peiris, while recalling the historic ties between Sri Lanka and ASEAN, said that the ASEAN Regional Forum (ARF), was an important body through which the Sri Lankan government had sought cooperation to counter transnational crime.

Political, trade and cultural ties between Sri Lanka and ASEAN member states since 1967 have been mutually beneficial, he observed.

Indonesian Ambassador Djafar Husein speaking on behalf of the ASEAN Diplomatic Missions in Colombo, commended Sri Lanka for actively participating in the ARF since 2007 and contributing towards the maintenance of peace, security and prosperity in the region.

It was hoped that ARF members could enhance cooperation in addressing regional security issues, he observed.

Husein, said that ASEAN since its conception in 1967, had been able to overcome the challenges and wise enough embrace the opportunities.





It was reported recently that some government servants demanded a 45% salary increment. Unless the above demand is met they have vowed to resort to trade union action. The usual response from the government to similar demands in the past was to be lenient to them and increase the salary of certain workers who raise their voice. This haphazard increments have resulted in enormous salary discrepancies between various sections of government servants. As the next step another section of government officers attached to another ministry would resort to trade union actions. It is true that many people in government service are not paid enough to keep their home fires burning. But more importantly it is not only government workers who need better pay. The government is duty bound to look into the welfare of many Samurdhi beneficiaries and other people. But they cannot have their voice heard.





He may not be in his trademark fatigues and expressionless glum face, but there's no mistaking the man on the stamp – a smiling and clean-shaven Velupillai Prabhakaran in casuals. The ghost of the slain LTTE supremo has returned to haunt Sri Lanka, on stamps allegedly issued in France with government approval, according to India Today.

In all, four stamps have been brought out by LTTE operatives who keep their identity under wraps, claim pro-Tiger and Tamil websites in Chennai. These websites have gone to town claiming this as a post-war public relations victory for the Tamil Diaspora. The portals also claimed that people have already started using these stamps, the Jan. 1 date-lined report said.

This peculiar event has created curiosity not only among the apologists of the banned outfit but also among Sri Lanka watchers. Besides the Tiger chief, the other stamps are that of the LTTE flag with its sword-crossed tiger emblem, the Eelam map and the ' flower - the national flower of Eelam.

The LTTE was wiped out and its military might crushed in the 2009 Eelam war, which resulted in the death of over a lakh people, besides rendering over five lakh people homeless. During the close of the war in the middle of May 2009, Prabhakaran was found killed and his body recovered in Mullivaikal, a lagoon in north-eastern Lanka.

Following the rout, the outfit's global network has come under severe strain and to a large extent its fund-raising machine, too, has remained crippled.

But the release of these "stamps" clearly show that the remnants of the LTTE abroad are down but certainly not out. They have changed tack and adopted different tactics to keep alive the dream of Eelam, which many believe is a lost cause.

In the aftermath of the war, Tiger functionaries as well as sympathisers abroad have joined together under the leadership of Rudrakumar, a noted lawyer settled in the US, to form the Transnational Government of Tamil Eelam (TGTE). It has a parliament with representatives from all over the globe.

The TGTE has announced that it was no more wedded to armed conflict and would explore democratic means to secure an independent Tamil homeland, for which the LTTE had been fighting for since 1983.

But, significantly enough, the TGTE has not yet reacted to the release of the stamps in France, indicating that this could be the handiwork of a splinter group within the former military outfit.

"We would look into it and respond," Sri Lankan deputy high commissioner Vadivel Ravanan said when asked about this development.





