The Island-NewsCitizens across the country yesterday hoisted national flags to pay tribute to the brave soldiers and observed a two-minute silence for the fallen heroes as the Army continued its march forward to the last LTTE hideouts in Mullaitivu jungles.

The government held national flag hoisting ceremonies, singing the national anthem and observing two minutes silence for the fallen heroes across the country starting at 8:30 a.m. yesterday. Religious ceremonies were also held throughout to bless the soldiers and the President.

The officials of the Ministry of Defence, Public Security, Law and Order also yesterday morning paid their tribute to the soldiers who liberated Kilinochchi.

People took to the streets in Akuressa after hoisting the national flag and participated in observing two mintues silence to pay tributes to the security forces. A special kiribath made of 500 kilos of rice was distributed in the middle of the town. People had participated in this function forgetting their party differences. A motorcade organised by the business community started from Porambe area and proceeded to the town distributing kiribath to people. National flag had been hoisted in every institution and house.

Ranaviru Upahara was held in Nuwara Eliya with a festive mood. District Secretary D.P.P. Kumara hoisted the national flag at 8.30 am and the staff members of the Secretariat sang the national anthem. There had been simultaneous flag hoisting in every public establishment by the head of the institution. Schools in the area too conducted simultaneous Ranaviru Upahara to honour the valiant soldiers.

Members of the academic and non academic staffs and security division of the University of Peradeniya gathered in front of the university's Arts Theatre yesterday to honour the fallen heroes in the capture of Kilinochchi. A two minute silence was observed and Vice Chancellor Prof Harishchandra Abeygunawardena in a brief address highlighted the importance of the liberation of Kilinochchi from the LTTE.

Thousands of school children, public servants, private sector employees gathered at the Sri Dalada Maligawa yesterday morning to invoke blessings to security forces and to pay tribute to fallen heroes in the victorius battle to liberate Kilinochchi last week. Students and teachers walked in procession along Dalada Veediya carrying posters, banners and lion flags. Afterwards a meeting was held at the foot of the Keppetipola Memorial in front of the Dalada Maligawa where Goveronor of the Central Province Tikiri Kobbekaduwa, Diywadan Nilame Nilanga Del Bandara addressed gathering.



