The Island-SportsA decision on the future of Peter Moores as England coach will be made by the end of this week.

Hugh Morris, the England managing director, spent the weekend in talks with Moores and England captain, Kevin Pietersen, as he attempted to thrash out a compromise between the two factions.

England and Wales Cricket Board insiders expect the matter to be settled this week after Morris has completed his review, which has also included conversations with senior England players and backroom staff.

A final decision on the future of the England coach will be taken by David Collier, as the ECB chief executive, and he will only act with the backing of the governing body's executive board.

That is chaired by Giles Clarke, the chairman of the ECB, who has kept a low profile during the row.

A peaceful resolution seems increasingly unlikely and time appears to be running out for Moores. Nasser Hussain, well-versed in the politics of the England dressing-room as a recent former captain, said on Sunday that only Pietersen could emerge victorious from the public falling out.

"If you are asking me who is more important, Kevin Pietersen or Peter Moores, then there is only one winner and that's Kevin Pietersen; that's what he knows and that's why he's probably flexing his muscles," he said.

"Somehow Hugh Morris has to calm this situation down otherwise it looks like Moores might have to go. I feel sorry for the bloke because he deserves time and if he doesn't do well then the ECB make the decision."

Pietersen is due back from his holiday in Africa later this week and is expected to meet Morris in person, but by then a decision may well have already been made.

Moores has refused to comment on the situation but Pietersen alluded on Sunday to the damaged atmosphere surrounding the England team.

"Obviously this situation is not healthy, we have to make sure it is settled as soon as possible and certainly before we fly off to the West Indies," he said. "Everything has to be hunky dory, everybody has to have the same aims and pull in the same direction for the good of the England team."

Sources have suggested the cost of sacking Moores, thought to be in the region of £250,000, will not be a big issue although Collier will no doubt be concerned over the losses potentially incurred by disbanding the backroom team he has assembled.

With Australia losing Test series in India and at home to South Africa, the ECB know they have to capitalise on their problems, particularly if they are about to rip apart the England team's senior management. English cricket is forever framed within the Ashes cycle and this Thursday the first Australia Test will be exactly six months away.

"It's absolutely not ideal in an Ashes year for the public to know the captain and the coach are not gelling, not getting on but more importantly the players now know," Hussain told Sky Sports. "There have been some doubts in the last year or so over whether Pietersen and Moores clash in terms of personalities – they are two entirely different people.

"Pietersen is outgoing, single-minded; Moores is much more measured, diplomatic. But now the players know that and at any meeting, whether it be before the Ashes or before the West Indies, when Moores speaks the players will be thinking, 'KP doesn't buy into this, or KP thinks this is a load of rubbish. Who are we going to listen to?' "



