As citizens of this country 'we all have responsibilities to fulfill towards the benefit of one another.

Likewise all media organizations too ore bound to fulfill their responsibilities towards the well-being of the society. One such duty is proper adherence to the ruling enacted by this government to prevent from promoting use of tobacco and alcohol Products through media.

There is scientifically proven worldwide evidence that advertising, promotion and sponsorship of these products either directly or indirectly would ure youth and children to take the habit. Therefore prohibition of advertising of these products is one of the strategies a government should take to reduce the consumption. There are other strategies that should be appropriately applied, such as raising tax, increasing awareness of the consequences of using these products, prohibiting sales to minors, prohibiting use at public places, etc.

With the enactment of the new law, inclusion of scenes using these products in new tele-dramas and films was prohibited and in regard to the already produced tele- dramas and films, the National Authority on Tobacco/Alcohol (NATA) made a ruling to mask such

But we understand that this ruling is not properly adhered to by certain electronic media institutions. They do so purposely. This ruling was violated by an electronic media institution which introduces themselves as "Lankeya Abimanaya" meaning the pride of Sri Lanka, on 31st December 2008, when showing a film in which two well-known actresses and an actor were smoking and using alcohol. The mask was put up after showing all these unappealing scenes. Under the Tobacco Control Act No. 27 of 2006 the punishment for direct advertising is a fine up to Rs. 2 million and for indirect promotion there is a fine up to Rs. 50,000/- and imprisonment for a period not exceeding two years or both such fine and imprisonment.

Is this another strategy to creep through rules and regulations and become slaves to the so-called industries?

Is this the so-called "Lankeya Abimanaya" of this media institution?

We draw the attention of the Chairman, National Authority on Tobacco/Alcohol (NATA), to take action promptly against this violation, We have the video clip of this particular scene.





