Diogenes, in his article in last Monday's edition of your paper, has quite pertinently drawn attention to an act of diplomatic transgression by the EU and punned on his name and savaged the Ambassador who has sought to tell our people that military leaders, who have taken to politics, have been successful leaders. The man would surely have known that he was transgressing and that no foreign diplomat should get involved and interfere directly or indirectly in the internal affairs of the country he or she is accredited to; but he probably did not care and could not give a damn as he is the Ambassador of the mighty EU! Some of these misguided representatives, sent to promote relations, do immeasurable damage by taking themselves seriously and indulging in activities they would not dare in a bigger country. This man probably has not heard of what happened to that nosey parker, the British High Commissioner David Gladstone, who thought that we were still a colony of Britain. Yes, puny Davids (not the above mentioned) can slay Goliaths, when the will is present, these fools do not realize that we may be a relatively poor country but that we have our self respect, born out of a civilization much older then theirs. Savage probably took the cue from his predecessor, Julian Wilson, whom people thought had been retained by the LTTE because of his furious efforts to stop the war when things were going wrong for the LTTE. This so called Ambassador who had bad mouthed this country and its government (which he considered a 'government of natives') to a number of delegations from the EU that visited this country, even stopped a delegation from the EU visiting the Eastern Province after it was liberated; this wretched man took liberties with us that he would not have dared had he been in a bigger country. The man who came within an ace of being declared PNG is said to be more like a castrated lamb than a tiger in Indonesia, where he went from here.

The US and its western allies bullied us and intimidated us and did their utmost to stop the war and save Prabhakaran (though one of their own Generals stated that their war will never be over until they kill Bin Laden) at the behest of the Tamil expatriate lobbies in the west who had 'looked after' them well; what they have succeeded in doing has been to push us into reviving traditional friendships and cultivating very close relations with countries that the US considers to be threats to their strategic interests; hence their huge karanang (somersault) in their policy towards this country. Yes, when it comes to their interests they are seen to have the principles of road tarts.

Let us hope that Ambassador Savage does not confuse license with liberty taking us for granted and cause further damage to our relations with the EU, which has not only been caused by the misguided actions of persons such as Wilson, but also by our own mishandling of situations such as the killing of the five boys in Trincomalee and the NGO workers in Muttur and the stupidly abrasive attitudes and statements of some of our own politicians and officials, adept more at Diplo-lunacy than Diplomacy. Our thanks go out to Diogenes for having raised this issue.





