I refer your front page news item of 08/01/2009, wherein it was stated that Mr. S.B. Dissanayake Chief Ministerial aspirant of the U.N.P for the central province had told a gathering in Kandy that the panacea for all the ills that affect Sri Lanka was to establish a dictatorship. This is not the first time that he came out with such views. I remember some of his interviews where he made similar remarks with much vehemence and emphasis. (The implication is very clear, Sri Lanka should establish a dictatorship and the grand dictator should be none other than S.B. himself).

What perplexed me here was how the United National Party, which is dedicated to enshrine, preserve and promote democratic ideals, could habour such a budding dictator in its fold. S.B is not just an ordinary member of the U.N.P. He is no less a person than their national organizer. A person who has mastered the art of rhetoric so well, he can sway easily the gullible public. He does not hide his aspiration to grab the highest position in the country one day. The real danger lies there. These are ominous signs that bring to our minds the atrocious deeds committed by dictators in the recent past.

It is worthwhile to remind S.B the most recent defense of democracy by a national leader. Mr. Ali Shardar, the democratically elected Prime Minister of Pakistan stated in his inaugural address after assuming office that even a shaky democracy is much better than a vibrant dictatorship. He said this after toppling another modern day 'benevolent' dictator who usurped power.

This statement is pregnant with meaning. Humankind in its long search for good governance has experimented with dictatorship, oligarchy and democracy from the dawn of civilization. After much trial and tribulation, mankind has come to accept that Democracy, is the best form of government they can aspire to. In no form of government, including Democracy, is man absolutely free. In any form of government the individual has to bequeath a part of his freedom to uphold the common good. But it is only in a democracy that a fine balance is struck between individual freedom and obligations, whereas in a dictatorship, every form of freedom is denied to the individual. Every form of dissent is trampled underfoot. It is one man with his cohorts that rules the country. It is that man who decides everything for the entire populace. Every dictator, who sprung up, started his career by proclaiming that his intention is to bring order and stability to an otherwise turbulent country, by being a benevolent dictator to bring solace to the citizenry. But history has amply proved that very soon the enormous power he wields corrupts him to such an extent, he starts to fatten himself by plundering the public treasury and wallows in luxury. He gets carried away so much by the adulation of the sycophants around him, he starts to delude himself by thinking he is omniscient. But in effect, he becomes a pathetic megalomaniac. History is replete with such rulers. Some of the most recent examples are Idi Amin, Bokassa, Papa Doc, Marcos and Suharto of Indonesia.

Of course democracy has its own drawbacks. In a democracy, decision making is laboured and slow. The reason is consultation, debate and consensus are the means for decision making and not the dictate of a dictator. Opposite views are tolerated and encouraged.

Power is divided between the three arms of government, which act as checks and balances, and thereby prevents abuses and averts unbridled power (In a dictatorship all these arms of governance come under the thumb of one man.) All these result in delays and prevarication; there are no 'quick fixes' under Democracy. Also under a Democracy, the gap between haves and have nots can only be narrowed but cannot be totally wiped off.

This is why E.M. Foster, in his famous essay by the same title, gave only two cheers for Democracy, not three cheers. It must be mentioned that he did not give even a single cheer to any other form of government.

Of course in a Democracy you have to put up with the rabble rouser, the soap box orator, the heckler, the sycophant and even the fool, alongside with the wise man. That is why another famous ruler from Pakistan, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, said in his last book titled "If I am hanged" written in a prison cell, before he was sent to the hangman, by another dictator, that Democracy has to tolerate the 'Din and chaos' of a country if it is to survive at all. He said this in order to explain how Democracy thrives in neighbouring India and why dictatorship raises its ugly head time and again in his own Pakistan.

Perhaps S.B has Singapore in mind as his ideal state when he parrots out his panegyrics extolling the virtues of dictatorship. In fact Singapore has become the showcase for iron rule and success in this part of the world. He is sadly mistaken there. First and foremost

Singapore is not a full fledged country, with deep rooted socio-cultural traditions. It is only a modern day polis, artificially created by slicing out a tiny portion from the Malaysian peninsula. Secondly Singapore is really a gilded cage, where under a thin veneer of material prosperity one million people are imprisoned without any of the freedoms one enjoys in a democracy. I have my serious doubts whether the majority of the Singaporeans are a happy and contented lot. For as Tagore said in his famous poem, 'only where the mind is free, is there happiness and contentment'.

Mr. S.B. Dissanayake professes to be a Buddhist. Has he forgotten that the inner spirit that runs through Buddhism is the freedom to inquire and to accept only if you are convinced? Coercion is anathema to Buddhism whereas it is the very soul of dictatorship. Mr. Martin Wickramasinghe called this aspect in Buddhism the Nidahas sasunpatha - or The Enactment of Freedom.

I am told Mr. Dissanayaka is a very avid reader (he scores some points here over most of his political colleagues because most of them do not read anything.) Perhaps he aught to read George Orwell's pathbreaking novel 1984; a chilling account of an authoritarian state. This might cure his 'itch' to be a 'benevolent' dictator.





