The Catholic National Association of the Laity (CNAL) yesterday expressed its concern over the recent attacks on media institutions and the general breakdown of the rule of law.

A statement signed by its Secreatry Victor Silva said:

"As a body of the Catholic laity, we are deeply concerned about the recent attacks on media institutions and media personnel as well as the general breakdown in the rule of law. Many have, even by now, expressed grave concern, disgust and anxiety about the most recent incidents such as the wanton destruction of the MTV transmission station and the brutal g of the Editor of the 'Sunday Leader'. These have sent shockwaves not only locally, but also internationally.

We earnestly request the government and the authorities concerned to take necessary steps immediately to put an end to this dangerous trend that is not only inflicting serious wound's on the fabric of our country, resulting in the erosion of democratic principles, good governance and human dignity but also her staining our good image abroad.

We condemn these dastardy acts of murder, violence and intimidation in the strongest possible terms. We consider this not only as an insult to the long-standing honor and dignity of our nation that prides in a two-thousand year history, but also as a tragedy in a country that is often praised as an oasis of four of the world's greatest and living religions.

We wish to offer our heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family members of the victims of violence, and our sympathy to all those who have been inflicted with injury and loss.

We join our voices with all right-thin g c ens of our beloved country in calling for an immediate halt to these brutal incidents that keep disturbing the desired hope of our people for peace and reconciliation. An urgent and positive response from the government to this request will ensure a future with respect for human of every citizen and social peace for all.

It is a matter of grave urgency for the authorities to take the necessary steps to mete out justice. We reiterate that all those responsible for these despicable and inhuman acts as well as all those who are guilty of aiding and abetting such criminal activities he forthwith brought to justice irrespective of their status and position."





