Members of the Table Tennis Selection Committee are contemplating thoughts of tendering their resignations, The Island reliably learns.

A source, who wished to remain anonymous, said that the reason for national table tennis selectors to consider resigning was a decision taken by the Sports Minister Gamini Lokuge to overrule one of their selections for the upcoming South Asian Games.

According to the source, the national table tennis selectors had named in the squad a player who has just arrived from abroad, but the Sports Minister Gamini Lokuge has overruled that nomination by the selectors. It is alleged that the Sports Minister made a change in the selections due to a campaign carried out by the father of another player who had wanted his son in the squad.

The player removed from the selectors' list of nominees is Hasintha Shashiranga who was brought down from Sweden to make the Sri Lanka team for the SA Games to be held in Bangladesh later this month.

Shashiranga was the number one ranked player amongst men before he embarked to Sweden on a table tennis scholarship, arranged for him by the International Table Tennis Federation (ITTF), with the blessings of the Table Tennis Association of Sri Lanka (TTASL).

The TTASL is said to have named Shashiranga as the fifth player in the squad with the sole purpose of winning medals at the games. The TTASL had initially planned to send four men and four women for the games, but revised plans to send five men and five women instead following a decision taken by the Bangladesh sports authorities to grant each country the opportunity to send two additional players (One male and one female) apart from the eight players already selected.

The list of nominations made by the National Table Tennis Selection Committee which was changed by the sports minister was also approved by the National Selection Committee. The members of the Table Tennis Selection Committee and the National Selection Committees are appointed by the Sports Minister.

The Table tennis Selectors query why they should waste time continuing as selectors when nominations made by them are changed by the Sports Minister, who appointed them to make selections?





