With an indifferent form in ODI cricket, Sri Lanka will take on Bangladesh in the curtain-raiser of the tri-nation series today in a competition that also involves India. Sri Lanka have had a poor run in ODI cricket in recent times and have slipped down to the number seven rank in ODI cricket.

Kumar Sangakkara leads a weakened Sri Lankan side, but is hopeful the newcomers in his team will rise up to the challenge. With Muttiah Muralitharan and Dilhara Fernando injured and Lasith Malinga and Ajantha Mendis dropped, Sri Lanka's bowling looks weak, but some of the new players who took part in the recent five match ODI series in India have shown signs of promise.

Although Sri Lanka's middle order lacks experience, the top order is in fine form with Tillekeratne Dilshan completing an exceptional 2009 where he hit over 1000 runs in both Test and ODI cricket.

Upul Tharanga, meanwhile, returned to form in the recent series in India while captain Sangakkara too was in good nick in the recent ODI series which Sri Lanka lost 1-3.

Chamara Silva, who was dropped from the side after last year's series against India returns and is expected to play at number four today.

In recent times the dew factor has played a major role in matches played in Mirpur and the sides winning the toss have invariably opted to chase.

Since February last year, Bangladesh have only played Zimbabwe and a depleted West Indies side and will have to come up with a good effort to beat Sri Lanka. However, the return of players who were involved in the Indian Cricket League has boosted their confidence.

Fast bowler Mashrafe Morataza, however, has been ruled out of the series with a knee injury.

India, the third team in the competition are buoyed by their series win over Sri Lanka, but their bowling and fielding looks weak.

India will play their first game on Tuesday against Sri Lanka. All seven matches of the tri-nation series are day night affairs and will be played in Mirpur. The final is scheduled for the 13th of January.





