International humanitarian groups are springing up like mushrooms in every country to advise Sri Lanka how to run the country. The latest addition to this lot is a group called Minority Rights Group International from UK (MRG). They have become a vociferous voice on Sri Lanka speaking against the abrogation of the CFA, minority rights etc,. They have the audacity to tell the GoSL that abrogation of CFA will lead to more humanitarian abuses unchecked, how to deal with the minorities and how to provide security for the minorities. My foot. Does MRG have any in depth knowledge of Sri Lankan terrorist conflict? Do they know the geography and demography of the country? Do they know that even the moderate Tamil political groups representing 99 % of the Tamil population were supporting the abrogation of CFA? Do they know that more Tamils are living in the South with the Sinhalese and Muslims in peace and harmony than the Tamils in two districts under illegal control of LTTE who are forced to live unwillingly under the jackboots fascist LTTE? Do they know that Sri Lanka has no minority problem but only a terrorist problem?

MRG's most recent demand is asking the GoSL to provide security for minority political leaders? Sri Lanka is providing security not only for the ruling party politicians, but also for all opposition MPs and even past Presidents. Can MRG please tell the world how many security personnel are provided to British opposition MPs in your own soil so that we can make a comparison? Unfortunately minority groups in UK like Hindus, Muslims and other ethnic groups have no say at all. Unfortunately we are providing more security for the politicians who don't deserve (even safeguarding their personal interests) than to the innocent people of the country who are facing terrorist threats in their day-to-day lives. MRG will be surprised to know that GoSL even provides security for MPs who represent LTTE terrorists. It is laughable but it's real. Do they realise that however much of securityis provided, terrorists have to be lucky only once but others have to be lucky always all the time and everywhere? It is also laughable that the so called humanitarian groups including MRG demand security for the minority politicians whilst criticising Government's action to quash the terrorists once and for all who are threat to the security of the people and the country. The GoSL wants to wipe off the terrorism (as the British Govt, or US Government has opted to do not only in their own countries but in other countries like Afgahnaistan, Iraq as well) so that all people in Sri Lanka can live in peace, harmony and without fear.

MRG, like the Human Rights Watch (HRW) is very much worried about the problem with our tiny island. Why? Please don't worry about us and waste your time as we can handle our own problems more efficiently without their sermons. Instead, we advise MRG and the HRW to spread their tentacles on big sharks like USA, UK and EU countries on their human rights violations, minority rights etc in Afghanistan and Iraq. Also, minority rights of the pro western Middle Eastern countries where there is no democracy at all? Do they know that in some Middle Eastern countries, a person is not allowed to carry even a Bible? How do the British treat the minority Muslims in UK? Muslim children are scared to attend their religious schools because they will be branded as potential Muslim fundamentalists or terrorists. Why don't they speak about what's happening in their own back yard? There is already growing religious tension in UK among the Christians and Muslims on prayers through loudspeakers from mosques and disturbing non-Muslims. One Muslim Cleric (BBC News recently) asked what's wrong with their prayers transmitted through loudspeakers, as it's similar to ringing of Church Bells early morning. Isn't that a minority religious issue MRG should deal with? Where was MRG when London Police killed an innocent train commuter mistakenly as a terrorist suspect? Isn't it a very grave human right violation? It's a fact that humanitarian groups like MRG and HRW pick and choose areas to ponder with which are convenient to their operations.

These so called Human Rights Group including MRG should see to their own backyards before poking into other countries. So hands-off Sri Lanka as we are competent to handle our own matters. We do not need your advise or sermons. Lastly, for these ignorant humanitarian organisations to know how much we respect minority groups, Sri Lankan National Flag is the only flag in the world that symbolically represents two minority ethnic groups namely Tamils and Muslims along with the majority ethnic group Sinhalese.





