Sri Lanka's Kumar Sangakkara has returned to the top of the LG ICC Player Rankings for Test batsmen for the second time in three weeks after Australia's Ricky Ponting and South Africa's Jacques Kallis suffered rare batting failures in the Melbourne and Port Elizabeth Tests respectively. Ponting had entered the Boxing Day Test leading second-placed Kallis by one ratings point and third-placed Sangakkara by three. But his contribution of four and three in his team's 337-run victory over India meant he has conceded 19 ratings points and has fallen behind the two on 917 points. Kallis also squandered an opportunity to surge to the top when he was dismissed for a duck in the first innings of his team's 128-run defeat to the West Indies.

Despite managing 85 in his second dig, it was not enough to avoid losing 12 ratings points, illustrating just what it takes to stay at the top these days. Kallis did just enough for him to hang on to his second place on 923 points.

Sangakkara, on 933 points, had earlier knocked Ponting off the top spot after his performance of 92 and 152 in the first Test against England in Kandy earlier this month. The 30-year-old from Kandy then shared the top slot with the Australia captain after the second Test in Colombo in which he scored one run in the first innings and didn't get an opportunity to make amends in the second, a trend that was repeated in the third Test at Galle where he scored 46 and consequently dropped to third place behind Ponting and Kallis.

Sangakkara's return to the top now means that Sri Lanka again boasts a player at the top of both the batsman and bowler categories in the LG ICC Player Rankings as world record-breaking spinner Muttiah Muralidaran tops the bowling list. Australia's Stuart Clarkreplaced South Africa's Makhaya Ntini in second place whose team-mate Dale Steyn also dropped three places to sixth. Clark's effort of 5-48 in the Test helped him jump two places and placed him 27 points ahead of Ntini who managed 4-135 in the match andconsequently conceded 13 ratings points. In the LG ICC Player Rankings for Test all-rounders, Chris Gayle leapfrogged India's Irfan Pathan in sixth place. However, the West Indies captain is still 29 points behind fifth-placed Chaminda Vaas of Sri Lanka. The all-rounders' list is headed by Kallis with England's Andrew Flintoff a distant second.

Meanwhile, South Africa's defeat in the first Test means the Proteas will lose ground in the LG ICC Test Championship table regardless of how the remaining two Tests pan out.

The table is only updated at the conclusion of each series. Even if South Africa wins the series 2-1, it will have 108 ratings points which will put it behind Sri Lanka which has 109 points. A 1-1 result or a West Indies series win will leave South Africa behind fifth-placed England which has 107 points. India, despite losing the first Test, can still finish in second position behind Australia in the Championship table on 111 points even if it loses the series 2-1. A 3-1 series result will keep it on 109 points but ahead of Sri Lanka when ratings points are calculated beyond the decimal point.





