Presidential Advisor and Secretary General of the Muslim National Alliance (MNA) Nazeer Ahmed has requested President Mahinda Rajapaksa to appoint a high profile committee to probe the mysterious death of M. H. M. Ashraf leader of the Sri Lanka Muslim Congress (SLMC) according to a media release.

'Many years have gone by since that fateful day on 16th September 2000 but up until now the leadership of the Sri Lanka Muslim Congress not expressed any serious concern about calling for an impartial inquiry into the tragic incident' the Presidential Advisor said. He added that there have been puerile calls by certain sections of the Muslim leadership but all these were just for public consumption.

'It was not like as if the Muslim Congress did not have a clout in government', pointed out Ahmed 'In fact the late leader's party was in an influential position to demand an inquiry as a condition for supporting the government of which the SLMC was an integral part'. He added that during the Ranil Wickremesinghe government too the SLMC leadership had yet another opportunity to use its influence and demand and inquiry.

Nazeer Ahmed went on to point out that speculation was rife in the immediate aftermath of the incident but no serious attempt has been made to go into the details surrounding the mystery. 'Up until today people suspect that this was no mere accident but a sinister conspiracy to eliminate the Muslim leader' he said, 'I too harbour such suspicious'. He added he wanted to know if the death was politically motivated or not.

He went on to say that if a committee were to probe the tragedy then the truth will out and those responsible for this ghastly crime will be exposed to the whole world. 'The government of the day had vowed to appoint a committee to probe the incident but unfortunately this committee did not take off the ground.'

Pointing out one issue doing the rounds at that point of time Ahmed said that the pilot of the helicopter was an experienced person who had taken that route many a time and that it was believed that under no circumstances would he hit that rock which tragically ended his life and the life of M. H. M. Ashraf and all others in the ill fated chopper.

Ahmed went on to say that there were many questions that remain unanswered and to this day not only suspicion but people, especially those of Ashraf's supporters remain confused. 'An impartial and transparent inquiry would clear the air once and for all".

Nazeer Ahmed explained that the purpose behind his request to the President was to ease his conscience and only after an impartial inquiry would 'my conscious ease'. I owe this to my great leader whom I admired and loved. 'Calling for an inquiry is my duty by my leader' said Nazeer Ahmed 'I am certain President Mahinda Rajapaksa will oblige us'.





