In the interests of voters, the Sunday Island of 20 December 2009, the Island of 21 December 2009 (in Shanie's contribution) and the Daily Mirror of January 6 gave valuable exposure to the 14 questions that the Citizens Movement for Good Governance (CIMOGG) was in the process of addressing by direct mail to the 22 Presidential candidates. The letters themselves were sent out on December 26, 2009, followed two days later by a Sinhala translation (except in the case of the sole Tamil candidate). The purpose of the questions was to secure the candidates' answers to the implementation of certain tasks relating to good governance, the Rule of Law, willingness to conform strictly to constitutional requirements, transparency, accountability, depoliticisation of the public services, re-drafting the Constitution, and so on. The proposed timetable for action was worked out by CIMOGG so as to be reasonable and practicable. The candidates were not required to commit themselves to any course of action which would immediately require a two-thirds majority in Parliament and/or a referendum - for example, if one were to try to abolish the post of Executive President within a few weeks or months. The first 13 questions required just a YES or NO answer and the 14th question could be answered in four (4) words or less. This format was adopted so as avoid unwieldy processing.

By Tuesday, January 19, two candidates were reported to have withdrawn from the contest. They are Battaramulla Seelarathana Thero and Meera Mohideen Mohomed Musthafa. Of the remaining 20 candidates, only four took the trouble to respond to the questionnaire. They are M/s Sirithunga Jayasuriya, Upali Sarath Kongahage, Muthubandara Theminimulla and Wijekoon Mudiyanselage Ukku Banda Wijekoon. However, Mr Theminimulla's response consisted only of a few leaflets and does not provide YES or NO answers to any of the first 13 questions, and no answer at all to the 14th.

Those who did not respond are Mohomed Casim Mohamed Ismail, Achala Ashoka Suraweera, Kiriella Gurunnanselage Ravindralal Perera, Sarath Manamendra, Wickramabahu Karunarathne, Wekada Vitharanage Mahiman Ranjith, Sanath Pinnaduwa, Gardihewa Sarath Chandralal Fonseka, Heethaka Oswald Aruna de Soysa, Wije Dias, Panagoda Don Prince Solomon Anura Liyanage, Dina Aduruge Senarathne de Silva, Idurus Mohomed Ilyas, Channa Janaka Sugathsiri Gamage, Kanagalingam Sivajilingam and Percy Mahendra Rajapaksa. We regret that these candidates did not consider it fit to make use of this opportunity to be more specific about the promises they have been making to the public.

In analysing the responses, only unconditional YES answers are reported here unless the qualification of the YES refers merely to the need for a little more time to act on the candidate's undertakings. YES answers qualified in any other way are treated as being tantamount to a NO. The last names of those who have answered YES are given below against each question.

1. Within 30 days of assuming office as President, will you implement the 17th Amendment as presently set out in the Constitution, by appointing to the Constitutional Council, your nominee and the persons whose names have been duly proposed by the relevant nominating authorities? ... Jayasuriya, Wijekoon

2. Within 60 days of assuming office, will you provide the Constitutional Council with the support and resources required to enable them to appoint all members to the Elections Commission, the Public Service Commission, the National Police Commission, the Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka, the Permanent Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery and Corruption, the Finance Commission and the Delimitation Commission, so that the next Parliamentary elections would be conducted with these Independent Commissions in place? ... Jayasuriya, Wijekoon

3. Within 60 days of assuming office, will you submit to Parliament, a Constitutional Amendment to remove Presidential immunity from prosecution? ... Jayasuriya, Wijekoon

4. Within 60 days of assuming office, will you replace the Press Council with a Media Commission, in consultation with the Constitutional Council? ... Jayasuriya, Wijekoon

5. Within 60 days of assuming office, will you have the Declaration of Assets and Liabilities Law amended so as to make such declarations compulsory when submitting nominations for any elected office, with provision for annual updating, all of which would have to be submitted to the Elections Commission, which would publish this information on its web site? ... Jayasuriya, Kongahage, Wijekoon

6. Within 90 days of your assuming office, will you set up, in consultation with the Constitutional Council, a Constitutional Reform Advisory Committee, of whom not more than one-third shall be lawyers, to prepare a new Constitution which will, inter alia

a. maximise the separation of powers between the Legislature, the Executive and the Judiciary, with Parliament having full control over public finance? ... Jayasuriya, Kongahage, Wijekoon

b. limit the number of Cabinet Ministers to not more than twenty-five (25) and all other categories of Ministers (Deputy, Project, District etc) to not more than 15? ... Jayasuriya, Wijekoon

c. remove the right of the President to dissolve Parliament as and when he wishes and, instead, fix specific dates for all elections at intervals of either four or 5 years? ... Jayasuriya, Kongahage, Wijekoon

d. provide, as in the case of all State employees, for the automatic suspension of any elected representative from functioning in his office if he is faced with criminal charges, unless and until such time as he is acquitted? ... Jayasuriya, Wijekoon

e. provide more realistically workable constitutional procedures for dealing with a President or Member of Parliament or Judicial Officer who violates his oath or affirmation to uphold and safeguard the Constitution? ... Jayasuriya, Kongahage, Wijekoon

7. Within 90 days of your assuming office, will you bring before Parliament a Right to Information bill and include in it comprehensive protection for whistleblowers?

... Jayasuriya, Kongahage, Wijekoon

8. Within 90 days of your assuming office, will you take concrete steps, to ensure that the 16th Amendment (relating to Official Languages) is brought into full implementation over the following 12 months? ... Jayasuriya, Kongahage, Wijekoon

9. Within 90 days of your assuming office, will you take steps, to publish the full contents of the reports of all the Commissions of Inquiry which have been paid for from State funds from the date of Independence? ... Jayasuriya, Wijekoon

10. Within 120 days of your assuming office, will you take steps, to pass laws conforming to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) and its Optional Protocol, both of which were ratified by Sri Lanka in 1976, and the Second Optional Protocol, ratified in 1991, which would, inter alia, protect the rights of ethnic and religious minorities, and create a favourable ambience for building national unity?

... Jayasuriya, Wijekoon

11 Within 180 days of assuming office, will you appoint a Commission to recommend specific programmes to reverse the damage done to national unity as is happening at present by separating school children into differing ethnic and religious streams?

... Jayasuriya, Kongahage, Wijekoon

12. Within 12 months of assuming office, will you ensure that the Permanent Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery and Corruption is provided with its own Investigation and Prosecution Unit and all necessary resources to examine the Declarations of Assets and Liabilities of those who are required to submit and update them, taking into account all information received from whatever source, and to take steps to have legal action instituted against those who do not submit the annual updates or cannot explain how they came by their assets? ... Jayasuriya, Kongahage, Wijekoon

13. Within 18 months of assuming office, will you pass the necessary laws and make the requisite administrative arrangements to enable our expatriate citizens to vote in Sri Lankan Presidential and Parliamentary elections? ... Jayasuriya, Kongahage, Wijekoon 14. Is it your intention to implement the 13th Amendment in part, in full or in full and more? ....... In part -

In full -

In full and more - Jayasuriya, Kongahage

In the light of the hundreds of millions of rupees (if not billions) spent on publicity by the two leading candidates in disseminating vague election promises, it is a matter for the public to reflect on why not even one responsible person in their respective publicity units did not feel secure enough to spend, say, 20-30 minutes of his/her time to answer the very straightforward and precise questions asked by CIMOGG or to state why they did not wish to answer them.

The failure to furnish answers gives some indication to voters as to how much reliance we may place on these candidates' campaign promises.

The questions and the YES answers given above will provide some useful supplementary guidance to voters, in addition to whatever may be published in the candidates' manifestos or said by them on TV, radio or in print to help the voter mark the order of preference in a constructive manner to help send a powerful message to the front runners not to take the public for granted.

Once again, CIMOGG calls upon all eligible voters not to fail to vote nor to waste their franchise by spoiling their votes (see the Island of January 6 or the Nation of January 10 or log on to www.cimogg-srilanka.org).





