Sri Lankans play for pride

January 19, 2012, 10:38 pm

Rex Clementine reporting from Kimberley

De Beers Diamond Oval here in Kimberley is a familiar territory for the Sri Lankans. They were involved in the first ever ODI played at this venue in 1998 and this was their base during 2003 World Cup. The tourists, however, have lost both games they have played here and will be desperate to win here to stop South Africa fancying their chances of a 5-0 whitewash in Johannesburg in the final ODI.

Kimberley is a mining town and is the location for the famous Big Hole from which the miners got over 2500kgs weight of diamond in a 45 year period from a single mine. The ground itself is named after a mining company - De Beers Diamond.

For Sri Lanka Mahela Jayawardene has been ruled out of the remaining two games as precaution with a back injury. His place will be taken by Lahiru Thirimanne, the reserve batsman in the squad. Jayawardene had struggled throughout the tour not scoring a single half-century in as many as nine innings.

"There is an extra batsman in Lahiru Thirimanne in the squad and he has played one day cricket before and he has got some experience. They've tried him in different places in the line-up and he is a very versatile player. But I am not too sure where he would bat though," Jayawardene said addressing journalists yesterday.

Off-spinner Sachithra Senanayake arrived in Kimberley on Wednesday and could get a game if Sri Lanka opt to play two spinners, especially with Kosala Kulasekara having not done anything significant.

"He is a great prospect for us and I have always admired him, not because he's playing for my club, but for the attitude he has played with. Even at 'A' team levels on overseas tours he has done quite well. I think he's got a good break now and we should give him a consistent run to show what he is capable of. He is a very good fielder and could bat as well. A good youngster to have in the unit," Jayawardene added.

South Africa, meanwhile are in a position to experiment and are expected to make two changes bringing in Wayne Parnell and Vernon Philander for Dale Steyn and possibly Morne Morkel.

South Africa's coach Gary Kirsten said rather than concentrating on what the opposition was doing, the Proteas were contemplating on doing what's within their reach to the best of their ability.

"What we tried to do, throughout the summer was not focus too much on the opposition. You've got to respect the opposition and that's very important. You've got to respect what they are about as a cricketing nation. We know that every cricket side that we play against is coming with lot of pride," Kirsten said.

There is a 60% possibility of rain today in Kimberley, but the locals believe a shortened game is possible.





A prison sentence for Mervyn Westfield would help in the fight against corruption according to the chief executive of the International Cricket Council.

Westfield is due to be sentenced at the Old Bailey on February 10 after pleading guilty last week to accepting corrupt payments related to an agreement to bowl badly in a Pro40 match for Essex against Durham in Sept 2009.

Judge Anthony Morris warned Westfield, 23, he faces jail when he returns to court with a precedent set last year with the prison sentences handed down to Pakistani cricketers Salman Butt, Mohammad Asif and Mohammad Amir.

Haroon Lorgat, who stands down as chief executive of the ICC in June, described the spot-fixing scandal as the hardest issue during his time with the governing body but agreed jail terms help the fight against corruption.

"It can only help," he said when asked if a prison sentence for Westfield will help keep the game clean. "I would not want to speculate but if what happened to the three Pakistani players happens again there would be a lot of attention paid to what can happen." The Westfield case proved that corruption exists below international level in domestic cricket which is harder to monitor due to the volume of matches played and thin resources dedicated to anti-corruption.

"We can't underestimate the value of the integrity of the game," he told the BBC. "If that goes we have no game. It is the most significant issue we need to tackle. From our investigations, I don't think it is widespread as some people make out but I have a particular concern that we have tightened up around the international circuit but it [fixing] could move down to the domestic scene. We have encouraged all boards to replicate the ACU at domestic level and they are in the process of doing so."

The England & Wales Cricket Board established an anti-corruption department last year and last week announced a three-month window during which cricketers can report suspicious activity without facing prosecution for failing to tell the authorities about it sooner. The ICC are monitoring the success of that scheme before deciding whether to replicate it in international cricket.





In praise of Richard Dawkins

January 19, 2012, 8:09 pm

By Carlo Fonseka

The only ever uncaused event in the history of the universe – the BIG BANG – some 15 billion years ago, decreed that Charles Darwin would be born at Shrewsbury in England on the 12th of February 1809 and Richard Dawkins in Nairobi, Kenya on the 26th of March 1941. Because of that chronology Dawkins was able to stand on the shoulders of Darwin and therefore saw further and deeper than Darwin. In fact standing on Darwin's shoulders, Dawkins stood the prevailing view of evolution and natural selection on its head. This profoundly original, philosophical, evolutionary biologist and thinker and man of letters is right now in our Isles of spicy breezes where every prospect pleases — and his mother Jean Ladner was born 95 years ago.

Magnum Opus

The Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection or the Preservation of Favoured Races in the Struggle for Life is the tell-it-all title of Charles Darwin's world shattering book published in 1859. It proclaimed the greatest discovery in the history of humanity: Organic Evolution. You will, however, look in vain in the whole of his magnum opus, for the word evolution. Darwin seems to have consciously eschewed use of the word like poison. In fact, it is on record that when he was ready to publish this book after 23 years of intense cogitation since returning to England in 1836 from the Voyage of the Beagle, he felt – as he put it – "like a prospective murderer". How come? you may wonder. The answer is that in the deepest recesses of his subconscious mind Darwin darkly feared that the ideas about Man and God, fervently believed as literal truth by Christians including his own "best and kindest of wives" Emma, would be instantly killed by his discovery reported in his forthcoming book.

Blind Watchmaker

On the other hand, Richard Dawkins's breathtakingly daring book The Blind Watchmaker published in 1986 which exultingly celebrates evolution is a devastating and utterly convincing counterattack on its opponents. And his book titled The Greatest Show on Earth which came out in 2009 is a masterly synthesis of the incontrovertible evidence for evolution. For the evolutionary pioneer Charles Darwin in the 19th century, time was out of joint for the acceptance of the fact of evolution. So the vast body of evidence he marshaled in the Origin of Species only led him to "the theory of natural selection". For Dawkins in the 20th century, evolution was a stark, staring fact. But, you may well ask, doesn't a theory represent a higher order of comprehension, a more powerful notion and a closer approximation to truth than a mere fact? In the given context the short answer is an emphatic no. For Dawkins a theory is a mere conjecture; a fact is something that has really happened.

Seminal words

Given Darwin's chronic ill-health, proneness to stress-induced vomiting, extreme intellectual diffidence and his shy, reclusive, uxorious nature, he could not make himself to boldly announce to the world that we human beings are just one of the 193 living species of monkeys and apes. Thus the carefully crafted concluding words of the Origin of Species assert that "...There is grandeur in this view of life with its several powers having been originally breathed into a few forms or into one; and that while this planet has gone cycling on according to the fixed law of gravity, from so simple a beginning, endless forms most beautiful and most wonderful have been, and are being evolved". The book was published on the 24th of November 1859. The 1250 copies of the first edition were soon disposed of. So Darwin immediately started corrections for the second edition. The first reviews of the Origin of Species indicated that Darwin had touched a raw nerve in the Bible-based Christian England. Mrs. Emma Darwin was particularly upset and this distressed Charles Darwin no end. When the second edition came out on the 7th of January 1860, Charles Darwin had felt impelled to insert the words "by the Creator" after the word "breathed" in the final sentence of the book quoted above. All subsequent editions up to date retain this correction to the utter relief of creationists and proponents of intelligent design.

Bravo Richard Dawkins!

Richard Dawkins is a horse of another color. No greater admirer of Charles Darwin than Richard Dawkins ever lived. For Dawkins, Darwin is the man who systematically, patiently, definitively and conclusively solved the greatest of all mysteries, namely, the mystery of Dawkins's own existence. By so doing Darwin had made it possible for Dawkins to be an intellectually fulfilled atheist. And he has devoted his life to explain – no more lucid explainer of the riddles of existence than Dawkins ever breathed – why we exist, why we are here and what life is all about. For my part, because Richard Dawkins lives and writes and speaks so coherently, elegantly and convincingly, I feel in the marrow of my bones that evolution is a fact and God is a delusion. On a more personal note, for me Richard Dawkins is also the world famous best-selling author of The Selfish Gene, who was generous enough to send me an autographed copy of his wonderful book Climbing Mount Improbable. I mean to mention it in my will and bequeath it as my most precious legacy to my only son and heir.





England sink to defeat inside three days

January 19, 2012, 9:21 pm

England's bid to become the complete package in Test cricket got off to a disastrous start as they slumped to a 10-wicket defeat at the hands of Pakistan in Dubai.

After trouncing India at home last year to rise to the helm of the rankings, coach Andy Flower and captain Andrew Strauss waxed lyrical about how they would have to win away from home to be considered the real deal. Suffice to say, they've got a long way to go.

Meanwhile, still undefeated in the United Arab Emirates after six Test matches, Misbah-ul-Haq's men continue to secure the gulf region as their own little fortress.

Sporting high hopes of promptly wrapping up the tail, knocking off the deficit and launching into a hefty second-innings lead, England's gameplan - one that Stuart Broad had presumptuously insisted was falling into place nicely - gradually fell to pieces.

The start of play brought early promise for the hosts, with Umar Gul falling to Broad for a duck in the second over of the day. Adnan Akmal and Saeed Ajmal, however, dug in for long enough to have the lead reach a handy 146. While the wicketkeeper-batsman completed his highest Test score of 61, the tail-ender did his bit with a cheeky dozen before Graeme Swann capped a four-for with the dismissal of the stubborn duo.

In the field for over an hour on Thursday as the tail wagged, Andrew Strauss and Alastair Cook had plenty of time to get a feel for the conditions that awaited them - and in truth, both openers were unlucky to fall early.

Adjudged caught behind despite an obvious lack of impact on HotSpot, Strauss was the second victim of the dodgy Decision Review System after Ajmal was earlier given out when a substantial amount of daylight separated the ball from his bat. Cook was out six overs later, gloving a rising delivery down the leg-side for Akmal to take with ease.

At 25 for two the signs were ominous and, at 87 for seven, the writing was very much on the wall in Pakistan's favour. Kevin Pietersen holed out to deep square-leg in impatient, unforgiveable fashion; Ian Bell fell prey to Ajmal's doosra for the second time in the match; Eoin Morgan had little clue in the face of Abdur Rehman's arm ball; the nervy 40s got the better of Jonathan Trott, who eventually chased a wide ball to spoon a thick edge to the wicketkeeper, and Matt Prior really should have played Ajmalstandard off-spin off the front foot.

With the scalps of Cook, Strauss, Pietersen and Trott in the bag, Gul was chasing a five-wicket haul. On the other end, Ajmal was hot on the heels of 10 victims for the match after completing a Test-best seven-for in England's first innings. Rehman, though, refused to be discounted and added a third party to the foot race with the quick dismissals of Broad and Chris Tremlett.

Gul could have emerged the victor had he not coughed up a no-ball for Graeme Swann to plug down the throat of the fielder in the deep. Instead it was Man of the Match Ajmal, even if the right-hander's 39-run cameo had forced Pakistan to bat again, that secured the second 10-wicket haul of his career when Swann too couldn't successfully pick the doosra.

A mere 15-run target greeted Mohammad Hafeez and Taufeeq Umar, with the former fetching all of them to welcome triumph shortly before the schedule close.

160 all out and with a mere 352 runs to show for their 20 wickets, England were well and truly found wanting by a team four spots lower than them in the ICC Test rankings. Entirely ring rusty on the back of a restful off-season, they've at least given themselves two days extra to prepare for the second Test in Abu Dhabi, which gets underway on Wednesday.





Govt. proposes a senate

The government proposes a senate as part of its strategy to solve the national question. It will make the proposal to the Parliamentary Select Committee (PSC) to be appointed on the ethnic issue.

"The proposal of a senate was made by President Mahinda Rajapaksa to Indian Premier Dr. Manmohan Singh at their last heads of State meeting in New Delhi at which I was also present," government spokesman and Media Minister Keheliya Rambukwella told the weekly post-Cabinet news conference at the Government Information Department Auditorium yesterday.

The proposed senate comprising representatives of all political parties and intellectuals, would serve as a buffer between the centre and the periphery and the proposal would be submitted to the Parliamentary Select Committee for approval after taking into consideration all its aspects, the Minister said.

Rambukwella said that Parliament was the best forum to deliberate on the subject of the senate and devolution without having piecemeal discussions outside and even if there were decisions and agreements outside, they would eventually have to be presented to Parliament.

He said that Parliament would also ensure that there would be constitutional amendments to accommodate the Senate and whatever subjects to be devolved. President Rajapaksa had agreed to approve whatever recommendations the Parliamentary Select Committee would come up with, the Minister said.

Responding to a question whether the government would try to rush the Senate Bill through Parliament the way it had passed the 18th Amendment amidst protests from the Opposition and civil society, he said: "This is a very democratic government which will act in accordance with the people's wishes and will not adopt a dictatorial policy."

Minister Rambukwella, in answer to a question on land and police powers in the context of the 13th Amendment, said the government amenable to devolution but had to negotiate the degree and extent thereof. "We are not at all in disagreement to give these police and land powers, but there are some contentious issues which we have to sort out."

However, he remained tightlipped when asked what those contentious issues were. "Those are not matters which could be spelt out through the media at this stage", he said.

When pointed out that the TNA had claimed that government was not sincere in what it was doing to find a solution to the question of the North East, the Minister said that certain TNA members were attempting to lay preconditions to the talks and some of them were seen to be representing the LTTE rump.





Job agent in hot water

A job agent who had allegedly obtained Rs. 1.3 mn from a person promising him employment in the UK but reneged on the pledge was produced before Chief Magistrate Rashmi Sengappuli yesterday.

In this case the Colombo Fraud Investigations Bureau has charged Malwaraj Kulatunge, who had been operating an employment agency named 'Samasa Employment Agency' on the third floor of the Borella market.

He had been granted bail earlier.

Complainant Wickremasena Dharmaratne said that Rs. 1.3 mn had been solicited and accepted by the suspect for sending him to a work site in the UK.

The receipt book from which the suspect had allegedly issued three receipts was produced.

The suspect contended that the receipts had been issued by others in the establishment without his knowledge.

However, the Commissioner of Questioned Documents, to whom the receipts were sent for examination, had not been able to declare his findings, the Attorney at Law appearing for the suspect told Court.

Srinath Kumarasinghe PC along with attorney-at-law Mohomed Nazar appeared for the complainant.









The Sri Lanka – Vietnam Business Council (SLVBC) of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce will organize a Trade and Investment promotion mission to Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh in Vietnam from 4th to 8th March, 2012. "It will certainly boost economic ties between Sri Lanka and Vietnam," said Ton Sinh Thanh, Ambassador for Vietnam at the networking session held on 18th January, 2012 at the Embassy of Vietnam in Colombo.

The newly appointed Committee of the Sri Lanka – Vietnam Business Council (SLVBC) of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce paid a courtesy call to Thanh to renew the strong ties established between the Council and the Embassy of Vietnam in Colombo. Recalling the numerous activities successfully concluded by the Council, the Ambassador assured his fullest co-operation for the proposed trade and investment promotion mission. The main objectives of the mission are enhancing trade, tourism and investment promotion between Sri Lanka and Vietnam. The delegates would be provided with an opportunity to meet key Government officials in Vietnam and visits have already been planned to various high tech industrial parks in Ho Chi Minh. It was also emphasised that many opportunities are in the pipeline to attract investment from Vietnam to Sri Lanka in the areas such as manufacturing of machinery for agro industry, food processing, fisheries and oil exploration. However, due to inadequate publicity and awareness amongst the potential business partners in Vietnam, the present investment is remarkably low compared to total Vietnamese investment overseas amounts to US$ 10 billion.





Former Indian President Kalam arrives in Colombo

To launch Trilingual Initiative along with Mahinda

NEW DELHI, January 19: Avul Pakir Jainulabdeen Abdul Kalam, India's former President, arrives in Colombo on Friday to jointly launch Sri Lankan President Mahinda Rajapaksa's ambitious Trilingual Initiative along with President Rajapaksa himself.

The two leaders will launch the historic Trilingual Initiative in Colombo on Saturday (Jan 21). Kalam, who turned 81 last October, will deliver a public address later in the evening.

The one-time newspaper-hawker-turned-scientist-turned-president-turned-academic will visit Jaffna on Monday (Jan 23) to deliver a lecture to students of Jaffna University and other colleges in the Northern province.

President Rajapaksa's Trilingual Initiative seeks to encourage the 20-odd million multi-ethnic Sri Lankans to learn three languages: Sinhala and Tamil as languages of discourse and discussion amongst Sri Lankans themselves, and English as a life skill for occupation, employment and for accessing outside knowledge and technology and for communicating with the outside world.

Even though a constitutional and legal framework to make Sri Lanka a triligual nation has been in place since 1987, a serious attempt to execute a well-planned initiative to achieve this laudable objective appears to have been taken up only now by the current dispensation.

According to Presidential Adviser Sunimal Fernando, even though Sri Lanka has one of the highest literacy rates in the world (97%), nearly 90% of Sinhala people cannot communicate in Tamil, and 70% of Tamils cannot communicate in Sinhala. Of the 9,410 functioning public schools in the public school system in the island, Sinhala and Tamil are being taught as second languages only in 2,046, or one out of every five, schools.

And, even after more than two centuries of English and a public school system in Sri Lanka with 23,000 English teachers training students five hours a week for 11 years in English, Fernando laments that hardly 15% of Sri Lankans are able to communicate comfortably in English, a global language spoken by more than a billion people and widely considered one's passport to success in life.

The "English as a life skill" programme was launched in 2009. Sri Lanka brought cutting edge teaching tools, techniques and material from the English and Foreign Language University (EFLU) of Hyderabad in India's Andhra Pradesh state, considered as one of the world's leading centres of teaching English to non-English speaking communities.

Sri Lanka today has a cadre of 400 English language teachers. Eighty of them were trained in Hyderabad. In turn, they trained 320 others at home in the island.

Kalam, born in a humble family in Tamil Nadu's Rameswaram temple town, is India's second Tamilian President (2002-07) after R Venkataraman (1987-92) and third Muslim to adorn the Hindu-majority secular country's highest office after Dr Zakir Husain (1967-69) and Dr Fakhruddin Ali Ahmed (1974-77).

As a child, he hawked newspapers to supplement his father's modest income. Educated at St Joseph's College in Tiruchirapalli and the Madras Institute of Technology (MIT), he worked in senior positions for the prestigious state-owned Defence Research and Development Organisation (ISRO) and the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO).

He is known as India's Missile Man for his work on the development of ballistic missile and space rocket technology. He played a pivotal organisational, technical and political role in India's Pokharan-II nuclear tests in the Rajasthan desert in 1998.

The nuclear-and- rocket scientist has authored a dozen books. In his book "India 2020," he advocates an action plan to develop this country into a knowledge superpower and a developed nation by 2020. He considers his work on India's nuclear weapons programme as a way to assert the country's place in the world as a future superpower.

Writing poetry in his mother tongue Tamil and playing Indian musical instrument Veena are among Kalam's favourite hobbies. He will return home from Sri Lanka on Tuesday (Jan 24).









SLTB adds two more super luxury busses to Expressway service

The Sri Lanka Transport Board (SLTB) would add two more super luxury buses to the existing fleet on the Southern Expressway from today, SLTB Chairman M. D Bandusena said.

Altogether there would be six busses operating on the expressway with the new additions.

The new additions would operate from Elpitiya at 6.00 am and 7.00 am, entering the expressway at Kurundugaha Hetekma. The buses are expected to arrive at the Highlevel road in less than one hour. Two more such tours would be operated from Maharagama to Elpitiya at 4.45 pm and 6.00 pm.

"In the meantime the buses would be operated from Kottawa to Galle with the rest of the fleet," Bandusena said.

The new buses had been imported from India at a cost of Rs. 11 million each.

According to the SLTB, buses would be available at Kottawa and Galle every 40 minutes. Previously the buses were available every one hour.

"Depending on passenger demand, more buses will be deployed in the future," Bandusena said.





CMC: UNP loses key committee to UPFA

Pandemonium reigns at council meeting

January 19, 2012, 10:18 pm

By Lal Gunesekera

The UNP-controlled Colombo Municipal Council yesterday conceded the important Finance Committee to UPFA in a secret ballot at a Council meeting, signalling defections from its majority. UPFA won 4-2 with only UNP Mayor A. J. M. Muzammil as ex officio member as Chairman and Deputy Mayor Titus Perera being elected to the Finance Committee from the UNP.

The four UPFA members on the Finance Committee who were voted in were M. H. Manzil, S. M. Ramzie, Riza Zarook and Roy Bogahawatte.

The UNP took control of the Solid Waste Management, Traffic and Health Committees. The UNP's loss of the all important Finance Committee for the first time raised eyebrows in political circles as the UNPhas 24 members in the Council while the UPFA has only 16. The six DPF members, too, had pledged their support to the UNP.

Chaos reigned at the Council meeting yesterday with UPFA councillor Mohamed Mahroof threatening UNP's Mufthi. Later in the afternoon, frayed tempers were seen when UPFA's Azad Salley deciding to make a statement on his intended resignation from the CMC.

Salley said that he was happy to see two former Cabinet ministers (Milinda Moragoda and Mohamed Mahroof) who are now Municipal Councillors, and delayed announcing his resignation.

He said that he would not resign for the time being in keeping with a request from President Mahinda Rajapaksa, but was determined to do so as he felt that people should not oppose for the sake of opposing and that there were conspirators who were doing so in their hunger for power.

UPFA's Riza Zarook said that they were uncertain as to which political party Azad Salley belonged to as his stand was not clear and that they (UPFA) knew from the start that Salley would not resign.

Meanwhile Colombo Mayor A. J. M. Muzammil in a letter to Salley yesterday said that the latter had been a great asset to the Council and that the entire group of Councillors appealed to Salley to reconsider his decision to resign.





Dengue mossies target Navy personnel in C'bo port

January 19, 2012, 10:00 pm

By Dilanthi Jayamanne

One hundred and thirty navy personnel at the Colombo Harbour had contacted dengue fever last year reflecting a steep rise from 2010 and 2009 when 11 and seven cases were reported, it was revealed in Parliament yesterday.

Deputy Health Minister, Lalith Dissanayake who was responding to a quarry raised by the opposition said that surveillance had been conducted in the area for mosquito breeding sites. The Navy Base and the Colombo Port had been included in the mosquito prevention programme.

Navy Spokesman, Commander Kosala Warnakulasuriya, when contacted, said that the Naval camp area had been cleared. However, the navy personnel serving in the harbour were spread out over a wide area and would come under the mosquito control programme which was carried out at the port.

A senior spokesman for the Sri Lanka Ports Authority (SLPA) said the programme was being handled by the Port Chief Medical Officer (CMO) and her medical staff and divisional workers. Officials from the Medical Research Institute (MRI) were also at the harbour inspecting and issuing instructions.

Responding to questions he said that there were possibilities of civilians too having contacted dengue. But one cannot say that it's from the port because they don't reside inside harbour premises but in surrounding areas of the city and there were dengue cases reported from the city, the spokesman added.

The CMO refused to comment stating that the top management of the Ports Authority was aware of what programmes were being carried out.

Chief Medical officer of the Public Health Department on the Colombo Municipality, Dr. Pradeep Kariyawasam said his department too had assisted in inspections of the Port yesterday morning. His teams had found mosquito breeding places in the abandoned damaged vehicles inside the port. There were over 800 of them seized by the Customs.

The Public Health Department is assisted by the army and the police to carry out inspections and clearing. There were 145 suspect dengue cases reported in the City within the first 19 days of this month, Dr. Kariyawasam said. Invariably 60 percent of them would test positive for dengue. Some of the cases reported were from army camps and quarters.

Meanwhile the spokesman for the Health Ministry, when contacted, reiterated that programmes were underway to clear port area of all unwanted containers and other places in which water could collect. However the main reason for the situation was negligence of the Port staff to take necessary timely action to clean up surroundings.









Police probe into Katunayake FTZ shooting concluded

AG informs Court:

January 19, 2012, 9:52 pm

by Chitra Weerarathne

The Attorney General yesterday informed the Supreme Court that the police had concluded the investigation in respect of the complaint filed by the workers of the Katunayake Free Trade Zone, who participated in a protest rally at Katunayake on May 30, 2011.

Senior State Counsel Lakmali Karunanayake, who appeared for the Attorney General, explained that the report was filed in the Registrar's office of the Supreme Court on October 3, 2011.

The workers had complained, in a fundamental rights violation application, that they participated in a peaceful rally to demonstrate against the move by the government to introduce a pension scheme for the private sector employees. They said that their EPF rights were at risk if such a law was enacted. While they were in a peaceful assembly at Katunayake, the police had attempted to disrupt their programme by brutal action. One worker had got killed. Several others had been injured and hospitalized.

Among the respondents, cited in the petition, filed by twelve workers, who had been injured, are the officers-in-charge of the Katunayake, Seeduwa and Negombo police stations.

J. C. Weliamuna, Saliya Peiris and Eraj de Silva appeared for the petitioners.













To prevent elephant theft, particularly baby elephants from the wild, Wildlife Conservation Forum has requested the National Zoological Gardens and Pinnawala Elephant Orphanage to carry out Deoxyribonucleic Acid (DNA) tests on elephants given to private owners.

Forum's Convener, Nayanaka Ranwella says they requested in writing from National Zoological Gardens, Director General Bashwara Senanka Gunaratne that all elephants given to private parties should not only go through a DNA test but also be tagged.

Despite, promising to do so, the Director General had failed to attend to the matter, claims Ranwella.

Addressing a media briefing at the National Library Auditorium on Wednesday, environmentalists said that normally when elephants were given away the National Zoological Gardens (NZG) came to an agreement with the receiving party. But the NZG has not signed any such agreement with receiving parties and has instead given sole ownership to the private owners.

Environmental Lawyer, Jagath Gunawardena says the agreement demands powers to the NZG to take back the elephant if it was found that the animal was not properly treated.

Most of the domesticated elephants are ill -treated, suffer from malnutrition and many died after suffering for years. Early deaths were a common feature, Environmental Conservation Trust, Convener Sajeeva Chamikara said.

Most of the domesticated elephants die without contributing to the breeding gene pool, he said.

Gunawardena said that according to the Ordinance, only the Department of Wildlife Conservation had the authority to capture elephants from the wild, only if, an elephant was identified as harmful to the crops or the public.

The necessary technical knowledge was available in the country to promote elephant conservation but he said it was not taking place effectively.





Problems in devolving powers to the provinces

January 19, 2012, 7:18 pm

TNA Parlimentarians on the proposed devolution of powers to Provincial Councils

I wish to refer to the imbroglio between the GoSL (Government of Sri Lanka) and the TNA (Tamil National Alliance) on the proposed devolution of powers to Provincial Councils. It has apparently got stuck on a sticky wicket on the question of devolving Police and Land powers. They are not new or recent demands on the part of Tamil politicians.

The present demand for Police and Land powers for Provincial Councils is based on the 13th Amendment to the 1978 Constitution passed in November 1987. As it is well known, from the time the 13th Amendment became a part of the 1978 Constitution, that Amendment was agreed upon and was signed under duress, by Mr. J. R .Jayewardene, the first Executive President. It was also the only such Amendment out of the 16 amendments passed during his tenure of office. Similarly, Ranil Wickremasinghe, the then Prime Minister, too seems to have agreed to a CFA (Ceasefire Agreement) which was put up to him by Norway, on behalf of the LTTE and was signed by him, apparently in good-faith, in February 2002, perhaps under the impression that it will give a respite to the fighting between the LTTE (Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam) and the GoSL and would lead to peaceful co-existence between them. But what happened thereafter, is now history.

The demands made by the then LTTE and now by the TNA, are no doubt based on the Tamil homeland theory, which has been effectively demolished by many, including historians like, now Emeritus, Prof. K. M. de Silva. Only those who refuse to see the truth of irrefutable historical evidence continue to hold that theory. We refer to that long refuted claim, mainly because the TNA is seeking a re-merger of the Northern and the Eastern provinces, apparently on the basis that those two provinces were the 'homeland' of the Tamil people. Sebastian Rasalingam (from Toronto, Canada) had said in his article published in 'The Island' of 7th January, 2012, that Bishop Rayappu Joseph had said in an article published in the Sri Lanka Guardian of 4th January [2012] (which I have not seen) that Tamils should reassert that they are a nation and fight for nothing less than self-determination. It seems doubly certain, that two necessary administrative and political powers for such a determination would certainly be to have Police and Land powers.

Rasalingam has also said that the LTTE, who fought on the basis of a Tamil nation, had reduced the Tamil population to 8%, sacrificing young people as cannon fodder. He, and also an article entitled 'An Appeal to the Tamil Community and its civil and political representatives' signed by 68 Tamil persons and published in 'The Island' of 6th January 2012, also says the LTTE gave two hours notice to the Muslims in Jaffna and in the Eastern Province to evacuate the areas in which they were residing in, within two days and 80,000 were made to flee their residences in a barbaric act of ethnic cleansing. Also, in the LLRC (Lessons Learnt and Reconciliation Commission) Report (2011), Chapter 6.22 says Sinhalese families were evicted in 1977, 1980 and 1987, and in 6.16 and 6.42 it says about 150,000 Sinhalese residents in the coastal belt from Ottamvady to Panama were displaced in the 1980s.

The grabbing of individuals lands in Jaffna, displacing such original owners and redistributing such lands among the LTTE favourites and such matters have also been documented in the LLRC Report .

In Chapter 6, and particularly, 6.9, 6.14-15, 6.17, 6.40, and 6.78-80 have made references to such matters. That report, in the eyes of certain individuals, may have its defects, in not having being able to properly address the war-crimes in the final days of the war against the LTTE, but that is not a question we are addressing in this presentation.

What we are primarily concerned is in peaceful co-existence among all communities in this island, with whatever devolution of powers the GoSL and the TNA can come into, including on the contentious Police and Land powers. In the same breath, it has also to be mentioned that the GoSL should invite the Muslims to whatever discussions on devolution they will have with the TNA, because they and the Sinhalese who lived in Jaffna and in the Eastern Province, were the other two most affected communities due to LTTE ethnic cleansing in 1990 and earlier, as said before. It will be most unreasonable for the GoSL to come to any agreement on devolution, only with the TNA, even as far as the Northern Province or Jaffna is concerned, because the Muslims and the Sinhalese were equally affected in the ethnic cleansing done by the LTTE, as stated earlier.

I am neither a political motivated nor an extremist in the views I hold on this question and I believe, such co-existential views are held by most Sri Lankans. What we earnestly desire as Sri Lankans is to live in peace, and to let the generations to come, share with all communities, without hindrance, the riches of this country. Once again, as Rasalingam has said, let the multi-lingual, multi-religious and multi-cultural society seen in Colombo, be the ideal to follow. Creating of ethnic enclaves is a sure recipe for the disintegration of the territorial integrity of this country and for eternal warfare. Would any right thinking person want to inherit such a calamity?





Ganesan accuses government of being indecisive

January 19, 2012, 9:57 pm

By Pabodha Hettige

Contradicting views held by the government and one of its key coalition partners Jathika Hela Urumaya (JHU) over the implementation of the LLRC recommendations reflects the indecisiveness of the ruling regime, leader of the Democratic People's Front (DPF), Mano Ganesan said.

"Considering the history of the ruling regime over the implementation of the promises made earlier, the sincere implementation of the LLRC recommendations is exceedingly uncertain, although the statements made by Patali Champika Ranawaka of JHU had been nullified by the statement issued by the government over its implementation in the House " Ganesan said.

Ranawaka had said that the commission had gone on to speak about power devolution, which is not part of its duties. He had also said that the LLRC had failed to address the plight of the Sinhalese families, whose members were killed by the LTTE.

Ganesan said the LLRC had failed to address certain major issues raised with regards to the Tamil Community. "The LLRC has failed to go deeper into the issues of abductions, disappearances and extra-judicial killings of Tamil people before and during the war," he said. The families of those people had been waiting for a positive response from the government over these issues.

Responding to a query over the appointment of party administration secretary, Priyani Gunaratna to the vacancy created by the resignation of Ganesan in the Colombo Municipal Council (CMC), he said that the DPF was giving a message to the country that they were not a communal minded party but a party with a national representation.





Ram steps down: The Hindu has a new editor

NEW DELHI, January 19: The Hindu, India's leading English language newspaper, today got a professional journalist from outside the family of its owners for the first time in its 134-year history.

Siddharth Varadarajan assumed charge on Thursday as the highly-regarded daily's new Editor after N Ram stepped down on Wednesday as Editor-in-Chief and Publisher of The Hindu, Business Line, Frontline and Sportstar, the four publications of the publishing house, Kasturi & Sons Ltd.

In May 2011, the shareholders of the company held an extraordinary general meeting and voted to appoint him as the daily's editor on the recommendation of the company's board. Prior to this, the daily's editors were drawn from the family of the company's owners.

Varadarajan will be responsible for the selection of news in The Hindu under the Press and Registration of Books Act of 1867.

Varadarajan, aged 46, was educated at the London School of Economics (LSE) and Columbia University, New York. He taught economics at the New York University for several years before joining The Times of India as an editorial writer in 1995.





The Super Selector!

January 20, 2012, 11:51 am

Don Anurasiri may as well be set to create a world record as the longest serving cricket selector. While the selection committee headed by Duleep Mendis was replaced yesterday before their term could end, Anurasiri survived for one more year in the new committee headed by Ashantha de Mel.

Anurasiri has featured regularly in the last decade as a national selector and his continuous presence has been attributed to the political patronage he enjoys. He was part of the committee that dropped Thilan Samaraweera for Sri Lanka's tour of UAE and then overlooked him for the Test series against South Africa. Samaraweera then made the selectors eat humble pie with back-to-back hundreds in South Africa.

Anurasiri in fact played more matches for Sri Lanka than the wickets he took as a left-arm spinner in a career that spanned for 12 years. Playing 45 ODIs for the country, he managed only 32 wickets.

It is said that Anurasiri has been a national selector for more than the tenures of Sir Don Bradman, Sir Viv Richards and Sir Richard Hadlee put together as selectors for their respective countries.





Tech One Global to set up BPO operations at H'tota IT Park

January 19, 2012, 9:00 pm

Tech One Global will set up a 50-seat IT/BPO business, becoming the first Sri Lankan company to set up operations in Sri Lanka's dedicated IT/BPO Park in Hambantota.

Tech One Global CEO Wasantha Weerakoon said the company was honored as a truly home-grown local company to become the first in this initiative to enable jobs and opportunities for over 50 youth in the thriving BPO sector of the country. "Plans are already underway to commence operation by February for which the training and skills development work has already been completed," he said.

The Hambantota IT/BPO Park aims to provide 100,000 employment opportunities including over 40,000 seats in direct IT/BPO related jobs for youth from the entire Southern region by 2016. This will contribute directly to the national vision of have 10 % of the country's labor force working in IT and IT related jobs by 2020.

The initial set up of Tech One Global will create 50 BPO seats in February, by channeling public sector related work. With more skilled youth being added to the BPO workforce from the area, they intend to expand operation in to other areas such as legal and financial BPO etc. To facilitate the commencement of businesses in the proposed IT/BPO Park, the Government in the recent budget proposal pledges to make all necessary infrastructure and facilities available at a very low cost in order to attract local and foreign BPO operators to Hambantota.

"This will help us make the entire island a skilled IT trained country as opposed to just centralizing it in Colombo and will aid our economy and development immensely. The training programme these young BPO operators will undergo is on par with international standards and requirements and we are confident that it will help our BPO industry compete with any other country without a doubt," Weerakoon said.

The early stages of the operation are currently underway at a temporary location, with training programmes commenced in January where these young BPO operators undergo job and operation specific skill development training based on the applications they will use, after which the project will be launched with its first 50 seat jobs in February 2012.

Namal Rajapakse MP for the Hambantota District recently announced the formation of the public-private partnerships that is coming forward in the setting up of the Hambantota IT/BPO Park that included leading industry players such as Tech One Global. Among other significant resource providers is the Vocational Training Authority (VTA) who plays the role of training partner, using the globally recognized Microsoft BPO curriculum designed specifically for the BPO industry. In addition, Microsoft Sri Lanka comes on board as a key facilitator, providing the necessary IT resources for skills development of the youth, whilst IDM joins in as a training partner along with the support of SLASSCOM.





Creatures with no brains find their way home

January 19, 2012, 12:00 pm

A scientist wowed the media last week by showing how a slime mold, "a simple creature with no brain", can navigate a maze to find its way home. Big deal! I was not impressed by the press release from Professor Toshiyuki Nakagaki of Japan. I mean, even M. Gibson can get himself home from the bar in one piece without trouble, on occasion. Apologies in advance if my comparison of a slime mold to Gibson is considered offensive to slime molds.

No, when it comes to tech-y news, I was much more taken with the "Iran building its own Internet" headline in several newspapers the other day. A spokesman said Iran's replica World Wide Web would be ready "within a few weeks." If so, Iran must have 100 million people composing rambling blogs, another 100 million setting up cat-picture websites and a further 100 million producing bad porn. I just wouldn't want to be the poor schmuck assigned to write Iran's version of Wikipedia: "One article down, 19.9 million to go."

Meanwhile, a reader showed me a neat tech trick you can do at any mobile phone shop. You go in, pick up the iPhone 4S on display and reset Siri, the talking assistant. When it asks you for your name, you say something funny. Suggestions: 1) "Eww! My sensors detect a disgusting substance on your hands." 2) "Wow, you're hot. Press my love button, baby." 3) "Help! I'm being stolen!" Etc. Siri starts by saying what it thinks is your name, so everyone who tries the phone after you will hear whatever phrase you put in, for example: "Man, you ugly! Put me down!"

***

MALAYSIAN AIRLINES staff are working on a plan to let customers check fellow passengers' Facebook pages to learn about each other. I love this plan. Imagine walking up to someone on the plane and saying: "The rest of us in the cabin note that you press the 'like' button for every reference to Justin Bieber, so I'm afraid we must ask you to leave this aircraft at once." Of course, we may show such a person a measure of leniency in certain circumstances, such as if he's the pilot.

***

DOGS HAVE social skills similar to children, scientist József Topál of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences told reporters last week. What is he talking about? Dogs have WAY better social skills than children. When was the last time a child rewarded you for coming home from work by licking your face? When was the last time a sullen dog demanded money?

***

THOUGHTFUL LETTER from reader R.M. Hadzi: "You recently wrote a column about real-life happenings which reflect fairy tales. In the tale of The Emperor's New Clothes, bad guys create something which individuals in power talk about as if it was real, but ordinary people know doesn't exist. This exists in real life: it's called 'Asian democracy'."

***

BOSCO TUNG came up with a new definition of "Etc." He said: "This is a sign to make others believe that you know more than you actually do."





A stitch in time saves nine= Facing the short-term economic challenges

* Pathfinder Economic AlertThe macroeconomic imbalances

January 19, 2012, 9:05 pm

Sri Lanka has achieved a growth rate of 8.3% last year and inflation fell to 4.9% year – on- year in December 2011. These are noteworthy achievements at a time when the global economic landscape has been hostile with a slowdown in the US and a crisis in Europe; key markets for Sri Lanka's exports and tourism. The Central Bank and the Treasury deserve credit for their role in the attainment of such positive growth and inflation outcomes in the context of a difficult global economic landscape. However, there are balance of payments pressures that have emerged which require an immediate policy response. The Pathfinder Foundation (PF) has issued two Economic Alerts (no's: 19 & 23) in recent weeks, drawing attention to the unsustainable trends in the country's external account. In our view, the need for early remedial action is so pressing that the subject merits yet another call for the authorities to initiate decisive measures to address the excess demand in the system. The difficult international economic environment will increasingly influence policy formulation in the period ahead. It will necessitate a re-thinking of the current policy stance.

In our view, the country is not confronted with a temporary cash flow problem. Instead, the combination of an overvalued exchange rate and low interest rates has led to an inevitable worsening of the trade balance. The sharp deterioration in the trade account has not been sufficiently off-set by non-debt-creating inflows (such as earnings from tourism and other services, remittances, foreign direct investment and portfolio flows into the sock market) to prevent a rapid running down of the country's reserves in the second half of 2011. The hostile external environment makes it highly unlikely that this worrying trend will be reversed without a strong policy response.

There is an urgent need for a balanced approach to macroeconomic management deploying all the instruments available to the authorities. These include the exchange rate, interest rates and fiscal measures. The PF has argued, in previous Economic Alerts that experience from Latin America and elsewhere clearly demonstrates that an attempt to defend the exchange rate and keep interest rates down at a time when the trade deficit is increasing sharply invariably leads to a financial crisis.

It has been argued that the problem is temporary and that increased exports (19%); remittances (25%); FDI (100%)-[there is a tendency to confuse the value of projects signed with actual inflows, ignoring the lags and leads involved] and tourism (41%) would resolve the problem during 2012. This raises the question as to whether one can count on such a bullish performance at a time when Sri Lanka's key export markets (US & Europe) are experiencing very sluggish growth and investors have become extremely risk averse. In fact, risk appetite in international markets has declined to a point where a recent German bond sale generated negative yields i.e. investors were willing to pay Germany to lend to it in their search for a safe haven. In such a context, it would be extremely risky to count on "a business as usual" strategy to address the deterioration in the country's external account.

The scale of the problem

As pointed out in previous Economic Alerts, the trade deficit has declined from US $ 5.2 billion, in 2010 to US $ 7.7 billion as at end-October 2011. It is likely to have reached US $9 billion by the end of the year. It is particularly worrying that this dramatic decline in the trade account has taken place despite a robust export performance (27.7% growth), a sharp increase in remittances (25%) during the first nine months of 2011, as well as a doubling of FDI during the course of last year. As mentioned above, the combination of an over-valued exchange rate and low interest rates have triggered a rapid growth in private sector credit, which has fuelled a boom in imports.

The deterioration in the external account has led to substantial pressure on the Rupee and the authorities have expended over US$ 3 billion (SLR 350 billion) of the country's hard-earned reserves in defending the currency, since July 2011. This has been a major contributor to a worrying decline in reserves in the second half of 2011. Gross reserves have fallen from a peak of US $8.2 billion (end August 2011) to $ 6 billion (end November 2011). In addition, net reserves are clearly negative given the scale of external borrowings. This position is unsustainable.

It is noteworthy that Sri Lanka's defence of its currency is at odds with the response of its competitors in the Asian region; who have allowed their currencies to depreciate. The Indian Rupee, for instance, has depreciated by 16%. Sri Lanka has, therefore, not only run down valuable reserves but also lost competitiveness. This means that the capacity to earn (rather than borrow) its way out of the problem has been curtailed. The large-scale use of reserves to defend the currency raises questions about the robustness of the regulations that govern their use. It is important that there are clear and well-understood regulations and processes associated with the deployment of the country's reserves.

The policy response so far

The one-off three percent devaluation of the currency in the last budget speech (21 November) has proved to be inadequate. Approximately US$ 1 billion has been spent to defend the Rupee since then. The one-off nature of this measure seems to indicate that it was motivated by the need to contain the budget deficit to a level that was consistent with the government's fiscal consolidation programme and the conditionality built into the IMF stand-by loan. It did not mark a shift to a more flexible exchange rate policy.

On monetary policy, the policy rates have remained unchanged. However, there has been some upward pressure on both borrowing and deposit rates as liquidity in the system has become more constrained. As in the case of the pressure on the Rupee, this reflects the power of market forces.

While the authorities have defended the exchange rate and left policy interest rates unchanged, they have sought to address the immediate cash flow problem by resorting to further borrowing. The limit on foreign holdings of Treasury Bills and bonds has been increased from 10% to 12.5 % (there has been negligible take-up so far) and commercial banks are being encouraged to take advantage of their strong balance sheets and low leverage to borrow abroad. The latter measure requires great caution. At a time when the currency is under pressure, any foreign borrowing means taking on significant foreign exchange risks onto the banks' books. It is also worth recalling that the Asian crisis was not due to the sovereign debt. It stemmed from the banking system. The answer to the current disequilibrium in the external account is clearly not more borrowing.

The policy challenge

The challenge is to formulate a mix of policies that increases the exports of goods and services as well as non-debt creating inflows (remittances, FDI and portfolio flows). In a previous Economic Alert, PF set out the pros and cons of using different macroeconomic policy instruments to stabilize the economy by reducing excess demand in the system. It is important, at this point, to have a strongly pragmatic, problem-solving focus. Consideration should be given to all macro-economic instruments to develop the most growth and employment – friendly trajectory of economic adjustment.

A way forward

There are strong indications that the current macroeconomic policy framework is unsustainable, as evidenced by the large-scale haemorrhaging of reserves and the upward pressure on interest rates through powerful market forces. It is not possible to defy these forces indefinitely without experiencing a severe crisis. Experience from other countries demonstrates that the social and political costs of such crises are extremely damaging. It is the poor and vulnerable who suffer most when austerity measures are forced on the population. The pain tends to be so severe that the aftermath of such crises inevitably has major political ramifications. There is invariably regime change.

There is still time for a decisive policy response. The PF calls for a judicious mix of currency depreciation and interest rate increases, which stabilize the economy while protecting growth and employment and containing the pain experienced by the poor and vulnerable. Some pain is unavoidable. However, inaction, at this point, will eventually result in far more pain as "shock treatment" is administered rather than the more orderly adjustment that is still possible. However, the window of opportunity is closing fast.

Good economics is good politics

Sri Lanka, has, so far, not been compelled to learn that good economics is good politics. This is because the country has been able to live beyond its means over the last 30 years through the generous support of the donor community. As an early reformer (1977) with a pluralistic polity, this country benefited from the traditional donors' strong interest in demonstrating that liberal economics and politics generate positive development outcomes. However, attaining lower- middle-income status has brought about a qualitative change. It has been a game changer because Sri Lana is no longer eligible for concessional financing. The country is now exposed to the whims and fancies of international capital markets which have become extremely risk averse in the current global environment.

In such a context, negotiation of a successor to the current IMF arrangement, which is about to end, assumes greater significance. The lack of comfort associated with the absence of an IMF arrangement will greatly increase the country's vulnerability by dampening foreign investor confidence at this time. However, the IMF, or any other bank/financial institution, will not support an individual, an enterprise or a country pursuing "bad economics". The IMF disburses money that is raised from tax-payers from around the world, including Sri Lankans. It does so with no collateral. Instead, it imposes conditions, which it believes are necessary to ensure the country will be creditworthy enough to repay its tax-payer financed loans.

The current policy stance is, above all, not good for the country. It is also unlikely to facilitate the negotiation of an arrangement of the IMF. The PF does not advocate policy development being determined to please any external agency. The PF's overriding priority is to advocate on behalf of the interests of millions Sri Lankans. The imbalance in the country's external account should be addressed decisively for the benefit of the people of this country.

Losers of Over Valued Exchange Rate: Migrant workers, farmers and other local producers.

An over-valued exchange rate subsidises foreign producers at the expense of hundreds of thousands of local ones. Small farmers and businesses, as well as local corporates, are severely disadvantaged in their efforts to compete against imports. Exporters are also made less competitive. The cost in terms of income and employment foregone is considerable. The size of the budget deficit and the level of public debt, combined with the country's exposure to international capital markets, no longer make it feasible to provide compensating concessions and subsidies to domestic producers, without entering a Greece-type crisis. The current exchange rate subsidises consumers at the expense of producers. This is not sustainable and it is certainly not the route to improving the prosperity of the people of Sri Lanka. In addition, an over-valued exchange rate deprives migrant workers, including housemaids and unskilled workers as well as their families, of the full rupee value of their remittances. These people, many of whom are less affluent, provide crucial support for the economy. Yet they are being short-changed.

Strengthening the growth framework

The urgent need is for measures that make us live within our means. However, it is important that these are supplemented with reforms that strengthen the growth framework. Arguably, the most important priority, in this respect, is improving the investment climate for both domestic and foreign investors. The essence of development comes down to improving productivity through increasing the quantity and quality of investment. Sustained non-inflationary growth in the incomes of the people cannot be achieved without this. Previous Economic Alerts have dealt extensively with the ways and means of improving the investment climate. The adverse macroeconomic trends, and the remedial action that is inevitable, render it even more important to accelerate the necessary reforms for strengthening the growth framework.

Conclusion

In concluding, the PF would like to reiterate a quote from the chief architect of China's reforms Deng Xiaoping said at the Third Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party (CPC) in 1978 that "If a party, a country or a nation does everything by sticking to dogmas, follows an ossified way of thinking and is prevailed over by superstition, then it can never move forward, its hope of life will die, and either the party or the country will be doomed..."This valuable message should guide policy-making at this difficult juncture.

This is the Twenty - Fourth in the series of Economic Alert articles published by the Pathfinder Foundation. Readers' comments are welcome at pm@pathfinderfoundation.org





Education and Teacher Dispositions

January 19, 2012, 8:07 pm

Desirable student attitudes are formed as a result of learning experiences in an educational context dominated by these elements. Social stimulation through examples and opinions of teachers, parents and peers also play a part. Canadian Professor Albert Bandura is often considered the father of the cognitivist movement (as opposed to B.F. Skinner's behaviourism).

Taking a fairly long walk has become an essential part of my daily routine for some time now. From the beginning I saw to it that my calf muscles start aching before I stop walking. Through experience I have determined the distance that should be covered, and the time it should take to produce that amount of fatigue in my legs in the particular terrain where I daily perform this exercise. Occasionally, circumstances intervene, and I am required to curtail my walk before I reach my 'saturation point', which leaves me with a sense of having cheated myself. Once I pondered over why I get this feeling, and traced its origin to these words of a favourite teacher of ours: "Don't think that you have done an honest piece of work, be it in sports or studies, unless you feel a little exhausted after doing it". He taught us a subject known as General Science at that time some fifty years ago, and sometimes doubled as our PT master. He was a strict disciplinarian and a committed teacher. We used to await his arrival for lessons with trepidation as well as expectation. If I am confident enough to make any claim to at least a modest degree of professionalism in whatever work I undertake, I believe I owe that confidence to what I learned from teachers like him.

Many of us have recollections like these about our favourite teachers. Often we do not remember them for the subject knowledge they imparted. We remember them for the influence they exercised on our lives through their dispositions or perceptions or attitudes as revealed through their behaviours towards us their students. Teacher dispositions are vitally important for long-term as well as short-term student success in terms of academic achievement and personality development. That is why some of our old school teachers seem to reach out to us over many decades from the past.

The National Council for Accreditation of Teacher Education (NCATE) in the USA, a national organisation that helps establish the preparation of high quality teachers, specialists, and administrators by conferring accreditation to schools, colleges, and departments of education describes teacher dispositions as "Professional attitudes, values, beliefs demonstrated through both verbal and non-verbal behaviours as educators interact with students, families, colleagues, and communities" (as quoted by Maura Kate Hallam in 'The Language Educator', January 2009).

A key factor that is essential for academic success is student engagement. Engaged students are those who involve themselves in educational activities out of intrinsic motivation; they are self-reliant; they make themselves responsible for their own learning. There is a second equally important factor which contributes to student achievement: students' perception of their own academic competence (which means positive feelings about one's ability to be succeed academically). Students' active involvement in the educational endeavour and their perception of academic competence are both important attitudes that play a central role in student success. These attitudes flourish in an atmosphere in which students have a sense of autonomy, and feel confident in their own capacity for success in future academic pursuits. Two factors are vital for stimulating such attitudes: supportive teachers and high behavioural expectations.

Desirable student attitudes are formed as a result of learning experiences in an educational context dominated by these elements. Social stimulation through examples and opinions of teachers, parents and peers also play a part. Canadian Professor Albert Bandura is often considered the father of the cognitivist movement (as opposed to B.F. Skinner's behaviourism). According to his observational learning (or social learning) theory, a model's behaviour can cause an observer's behaviour to change either positively or negatively through the positive or negative consequences (vicarious reinforcement or vicarious punishment) of a model's behaviour. He looked at personality as an interactive relationship among three elements: a person's environment, behaviour, and psychological processes. Teacher dispositions affects the formation of learner attitudes.

Educators need to possess positive dispositions in addition to subject knowledge and pedagogical (i.e. teaching) skills. The NCATE mentioned above expects schools of education to assess their candidates on the principles of fairness, and the belief that all students can learn. Some researchers regard commonsense notions about teacher perceptions to be too 'soft' to serve as real research, insisting on quantifiable data. Mark Wasicsko, Director of the National Network for the Study of Educator Dispositions (NNSED) does not agree. He explains, on the organisation's website, that effective teacher dispositions can be grouped into four 'measurable' domains as suggested below:

1. Most effective teachers perceive themselves as such. They are competent, and have confidence in their own ability. Capable teachers are usually outgoing in social interaction; they can identify with a broad range of diverse people.

2. Effective teachers believe that all students can learn.

3. Their frame of reference is broad. They relate what they do to a larger purpose. Teaching for them involves creating a disposition for learning.

4. Such teachers take cognizance of the human element.

Teacher dispositions are important in any educational setup, but they are particularly so in the English language classroom, which I wish to use here as an example to demonstrate teacher dispositions. For effective language learning to take place, as much communicative interaction among the learners as possible through English should be provided. Their 'affective filter' has to be lowered by making them feel comfortable, confident, and uninhibited. ["Affective filter" refers to an impediment to learning brought on by 'affective' (i.e. emotional) responses to one's environment in terms of a hypothesis first proposed by Stephen Krashen in the 1970's.] The teacher's attitude determines much of the general atmosphere of the classroom and can either lower or raise the learners' affective filters.

Of course, the English classrooms in Sri Lanka are not what they used to be in the past. Teachers seem to have a more inclusive attitude than before: for a long time there was a widely held notion, especially in rural areas, that only some students had the ability to learn English; many lost interest in learning it, and turned their attention to something else; even teachers gave up on them. But today English is being taught on the basis that it can be learned by all students; exclusivity associated with English in this sense is a thing of the past (No allusion is intended here to exclusivity based on class consciousness which, to all appearances, is a thing of the past as well). Different pedagogies are being tried out. The students have ample opportunity to relate the English they learn to their experience of the wider world through technology-mediated communication. In this context, teacher attitudes assume unprecedented importance.

Because learning has become learner-centred and autonomous more than ever before with the emergence of revolutionary new information and communications technologies, the teacher's value as a mere conduit for the transfer of subject matter knowledge has substantially decreased. While teaching or instruction in the traditional sense has not become totally irrelevant, the stage manager role of the teaching professional has become more pronounced (To stage-manage in the formal educational context means to prepare the environment and plan the range of activities that the learners must perform both autonomously and in collaboration with colleagues for the achievement of a predetermined outcome through managing the interrelationships between the school setting, student attitudes and behaviour, and student achievement). In the final analysis, teacher dispositions are about bringing out the individual best in each student in the short term as well as in the long term (irrespective of the calibre of that 'individual best').





Ranil puts John in charge

January 19, 2012, 10:17 pm

UNP and Opposition Leader Ranil Wickremesinghe, who will be away from the country for four days, has appointed Chief Opposition Whip John Amaratunga to deputize for him during his absence. The UNP leader by passed his deputy Sajith Premadasa.

Wickremesinghe will be in India from January 20 to 24 on official business.

In a letter to Speaker Chamal Rajapaksa, the Opposition Leader said: "I write to inform you that I expect to be out of the Island on official business from the 20th to the 24th of January, 2012 (inclusive). Mr. John Amaratunga, MP – Chief Opposition Whip of Parliament will deputize for me during my absence." (SI)





Bourse continues to fall, turnover below a billion

* Milanka dips less steeply than ASPI

January 19, 2012, 8:57 pm

The Colombo bourse continued to lose ground with both indices down and turnover falling below Rs.1 billion yesterday with early gains lost at close of trading, brokers said.

Turnover at Rs.952.5 million was down from the previous day's Rs.1.46 billion, with the All Share Price Index losing 59.81 points (1.02%) and the Milanka 19.62 points (0.40%) with 51 gainers outpaced by 138 losers.

"Much of the day's business volumes came off Commercial Bank where two parcels totaling 2 million shares were crossed at Rs.100," Prashan Fernando of Acuity Stockbrokers said. "Retail play was seen in Asia Asset Finance, ERI and Colombo Land among others."

Brokers and analysts noted that both indices were up, the Milanka more so, during early trading. When the market closed this index had fallen much less steeply than the All Share Price Index.

ComBank was down 10 cents to close at Rs.100 on slightly over 2.2 million shares traded between Rs.99.80 and Rs.100.40 generating the day's top turnover of Rs.221.9 million while Asia Asset Finance gained Rs.1.50 to close at Rs.7 on over 23.5 million shares done between Rs.4.70 and Rs.7.50 contributing the second highest Rs.156.1 million to turnover.

ERI too was up 40 cents to Rs.30.80 on over 2.1 million shares done between Rs.29.40 and Rs.32.40.

HNB was a blue chip loser, down Rs.1.30 to close at Rs.148 on 0.4 million shares done between Rs.147 and Rs.148 while PC Pharma gained Rs.2.50 to close at Rs.54.10 on a million shares done between Rs.52.10 and Rs.64.

JKH was up yesterday gaining 90 cents on over 0.2 million shares done between Rs.158.50 and Rs.162. Ceylon Tobacco gained Rs.3.10 closing at Rs.500 on 75,900 shares done between Rs.495 and Rs.500 which is close to last year's high of Rs.505.

Colombo Land continued to attract retail play gaining 10 cents to close at Rs.51.40 on 0.6 million shares done between Rs.49.70 and Rs.52 while Vallibel One, with a crossing of 1.2 million shares at Rs.22, closed 60 cents up at Rs.21.90 on 1.3 million shares done between Rs.21.10 and Rs.21.90.

Other crossings for the day included million shares PC Pharma at Rs.52 with the counter closing Rs.2.50 up at Rs.54.10 on slightly over a million shares done between Rs.52.10 and Rs.64 on the trading floor.





* Sri Lanka needs to change the traditional land and labour use and management models applicable to Regional Plantation Companies (RPCs), to enable RPCs to ride out the current tea industry crisis, says a former Director of Planning at the Ministry of Plantation Industries and immediate past Chairman of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce.

"Sri Lanka needs to facilitate greater non-plantation employment opportunities for plantation populations, to reduce production costs of plantation companies. Land use diversification, into areas such as forestry cultivation, where tea cannot be cultivated, should also be encouraged, to maximize plantation industry land productivity," says Dr Ekanayake.

Dr Ekanayake, who did his doctoral research on economics of human capital, at the Australian National University in mid 1980s, says although plantation populations are generally seen as fixed labour resources of estates, and estates are obliged to employ all estate residents of working age seeking employment, this model may not be sustainable into the future. Many RPCs are currently experiencing large scale losses and say the current cost structure is not sustainable. Much of the concern is to do with meeting the increasing labour costs.

"Under the current collective agreement, RPCs are required to provide 300 days of work for its workforce, at a set daily wage, and must also pay an attendance incentive. They must also provide a fixed, so called, price share supplement, which was originally intended to be linked to tea prices, but is now given regardless of price increases or reductions. All of these are fixed costs, and this inflexibility becomes a problem when work forces are very large, running into the thousands, as in the case of resident employees in many high grown tea estates," says Dr Ekanayake.

While the cost of maintaining large estate workforces and their resident families, have increased, tea prices have declined in recent times and are not expected to see significant increases in the near term.

"The political instability in many major tea buying Middle Eastern countries and slowing growth of western economies would imply that a sharp increase of tea prices in the near term, is unlikely. We also cannot expect global tea prices to keep rising, to counter the rising cost of production in Sri Lanka," says Dr Ekanayake.

While increasing outputs could help increase plantation industry revenues, this is not seen as a sustainable long term solution.

"Our major plantation crop, tea, is a commodity. So prices depend on demand and supply. For instance, if there is a supply shortfall due to adverse weather in other tea producing countries, prices for Sri Lankan tea will go up. Currently Sri Lankan tea is seen as a high priced speciality product, due to limited production. But if we suddenly increase our yields by large amounts, this will increase supplies and cause prices to drop," points out Dr Ekanayake.

Sri Lanka also has physical limitations to production increases.

"We cannot keep increasing outputs and yields indefinitely, because Sri Lanka has a limited land area to cultivate tea. Also, fertility levels of tea lands in the hill country have been eroded due to mono cropping for over a century," says Dr Ekanayake.

Value addition efforts, while benefiting the country, may not address the problem faced by tea plantations.

"Revenues from value additions generally accrue to the value adding party, which, in the tea industry, is often a third party and is not the producer. In many cases RPCs may not be able to directly get involved in value adding. So value addition will not, by and large, address the need for sustained revenue increases by tea growers," explains Dr Ekanayake.

However, production factors that can be addressed are labour and land. For instance, currently, some estates have an oversupply of labour, while others have a shortage.

"In the upcountry estates, where this problem of wage costs is most acutely felt, there is a labour surplus in most estates. However, there are labour shortages in low and mid country estates, because in these areas there are alternative employments for estate populations," says Dr Ekanayake.

Estates with labour shortages however, are weathering the current cash crunch a lot better.

"A larger labour force does not necessarily guarantee a larger output. In fact, in estates where there are labour shortages the current difficulties are felt less, because they do not have to employ large numbers even at times of low output. These estates can also resort to over- time work when there is excess plucking, which is less costly. So labour productivity tends to be higher in such estates and unit costs are lower," says Dr Ekanayake.

Given the current conditions, one solution is for policy makers and plantation industry stakeholders to facilitate labour mobility between estates and encourage estate labour integration with the rest of the labour market.

"It might be possible to facilitate labour mobility between estates that have labour shortages and estates with labour surpluses. We also need to encourage and help estate populations find employments outside estates," says Dr Ekanayake.

Another option available for plantation companies is to increase their incomes by increasing land use efficiency.

"Our policymakers must change their mindset that tea and only tea should be cultivated in tea estates, because some lands are not suitable for tea cultivation. In such cases, commercial forests are a good investment. So we need to look at reducing barriers to doing this," says Dr Ekanayake. "Further, forestry and forestry related industries can gainfully absorb excess labour. Above all, well managed commercial forestry will be environmentally superior to poorly managed or abandoned tea or any seasonal crop. Commercial forestry can be a win-win all round to the estates, to their labour force and to the nation at large," he says.

Many plantation companies are already at crisis point. Therefore, Dr Ekanayake notes that promoting greater labour and land productivity may be the only viable solution to preserve Sri Lanka's 150 year old tea plantations.

"This problem of excess labour will be very short lived. In fact, over the next few years the situation will reverse, when the aging population phenomenon begins to be felt acutely in Sri Lanka. There are mechanisation options to address this issue. So it would be a very great tragedy if our plantation industry has to die, simply because we could not make some critical adjustments over the short term," notes Dr Ekanayake.





Persons and 'Arahats'

January 19, 2012, 12:00 pm

In his lucid discussion of the Theravada-Buddhist interpretation of the state of 'Nibbana', Prof. Y. Karunadasa states, inter alia, that "Nibbana can also be described as the giving up of the three-fold grasping of the five aggregates. The Arahant makes use of the five aggregates without imposing on them thoughts of "this is mine", "this I am", and "this is myself." This means that the 'Arahat' is a parasitic presence in the Five Aggregates and the entailment of ownership concerning their doings is gone forever. There is a puzzling contradiction here. On the one hand the canonical view is that there is no 'person' or 'agent' as the directive essence of a karmic being. The Five Aggregates constitute a dynamic system that merely masquerades as a 'self' or 'perdurable agent' – commonly called a 'soul'. If this is indeed the case, who or what is that agency called the 'Arahat' who is 'riding' on the Five Aggregates – 'making use of them' as Prof. Karunadasa puts it - without being tainted by their inherently ephemeral nature? If the Five Aggregates constitute a self-contained totality before the attainment of 'Arahatship' , how does a mysterious sequestration result in an epiphenomenal and indifferent 'observer' being enchained to something that is the root of all suffering? Is this numinous observer extraneous to the corruption he rides – is he of Nirvanic stuff? If this is the case, the explanation is no explanation.

The ineluctable truth is that the ineffable cannot be explained in terms of the perishable. The 'Arahat' – if this term is truly understood – cannot be a ghost riding a machine driven by passions of the kind that make ordinary life possible. It is altogether the other. The Buddhist 'Suttas' are not hallowed and logically consistent texts. The 'science' contained therein is riddled with archaism. These ancient records of what the Buddha said are valued for their lofty ethicisms - not for the consistency of their logico-mystical formulations.





Enter de Mel once again

Aluthgamage appoints new cricket selection committee

Sports Minister Mahindananda Aluthgamage yesterday appointed a new National cricket Selection Committee under former Sri Lanka fast bowler Ashantha de Mel. The four-member Selection Committee includes de Mel (chairman), Don Arunasiri, Amal Silva and Hemantha Wickramaratne.

"The Sports Minister using powers vested on him by the National Sports Law appointed the new National cricket Selection Committee this evening (yesterday evening). This was done with a view to stopping the continuous slide in the performance of the National cricket team and driving the game towards improvement," said the Media Secretary of the Sports Ministry, Harsha B. Abeykoon yesterday.

Asked whether there is a possibility of complete overhaul of the National cricket team by which its Captain and Coach too will be replaced, as it was reported in the media recently, Abeykoon said such decision will only be taken after considering a report that is to be submitted by the Sri Lanka cricket board chairman Upali Dharmadasa to the Sports Minister.

"Changing the Captain and the Coach could be done by the cricket board and the National Selection Committee. Minister Aluthgamage is now waiting to receive the report by Mr. Dharmadasa on the long, middle and short term solutions for the present crisis in our cricket," Abeykoon further added.

Hilariously though, Aluthgamage's decision was announced last evening just hours after his statement that there wouldn't be any change in either the National Selection Committee or any other key position in the National cricket team.

A Sports Ministry media release, quoting Aluthgamage around noon yesterday, had said: "No decision has been taken so far to replace or to change the Selection Committee and the Management of Sri Lanka Cricket or the Captaincy of the Sri Lankan Cricket Team."

De Mel played for Sri Lanka from 1982-87 and in 2004, was appointed chief of selectors for the first time for a one-year period under the then Sports Minister Jeewan Kumaratunga. De Mel was once the Chairman of the state owned Ceylon Petroleum Corporation.

His previous tenure as head of selectors is best remembered for the astonishing attack he received from former Sri Lanka Captain Marvan Atapattu who on Nov. 10, 2007 —at the end of the third day of a Test against Australia played at the Gabba— called the then selectors 'a set of muppets headed by a joker.' That time de Mel was the head of the selection panel which also included Anurasiri, Ranjith Madurasinghe and Jayantha Seneviratne.

The outgoing Selection Committee, which was appointed in April last year after Sri Lanka's World Cup campaign, comprised Duleep Mendis (chairman), Arunasiri, Brendon Kuruppu and Madurasinghe.

The Committee came in for a lot of flack as Sri Lanka struggled especially since the retirement of Muttiah Muralitharan in July 2010, winning just one Test over the last 18 months after they finished World Cup runners-up in April last year. Since then they have lost one-day series against England, Australia, Pakistan and now South Africa in a horrendous run of poor form and underperformance.





National Hospital doctors in token strike today

January 19, 2012, 10:44 pm

By Don Asoka Wijewardena

The Government Medical Officers Association (GMOA) branch of the Colombo National Hospital will launch a token strike today from 8.00 a.m. to protest against the appointments of Prof. Carlo Fonseka as SLMC President and Dr. Shirley Herath and Prof Rezvi Sheriff as its members. However, all emergency cases will be handled.

Although Health Minister Maithripala Sirisena had agreed to remove Dr. Shirley Herath, following a meeting with the GMOA, no action had been taken so far, the GMOA said, claiming that it had learnt from a reliable source that Dr. Herath was refusing to resign.

Health Minister Maithripala Sirisena, who held a meeting with the GMOA, which was also attended by Secretary to Health Ministry Dr. Ravindra Ruberu, Health Services Director General Dr. Ajith Mendis and Deputy Director General (medical services) Dr. Ananda Gunasekera, on the appointment of Prof. Sheriff and Dr. Herath to the Sri Lanka Medical Council (SLMC), had agreed to remove the latter while allowing Prof. Sheriff to remain as a member, the GMOA said.

The integrity of the SLMC would depend on an independent person being appointed as its member.





Suren appointed Airtel CEO

January 19, 2012, 9:07 pm

Bharti Airtel announced the appointment of Suren Goonewardene as CEO of its operations in Sri Lanka.

Announcing the appointment, Sanjay Kapoor, CEO – India & South Asia, Bharti Airtel said, "Suren brings with him rich domain experience of telecom industry and has an exceptionally strong track record of business successes in each of his previous roles. Given Suren's vast experience, sharp focus on business goals and able leadership - we are confident that Airtel's Sri Lanka team will move from strength to strength and deliver on our aggressive growth plans for the country. We welcome Suren to the Airtel family and look forward to him spearheading our long term goals in Sri Lanka through meaningful connections with our internal as well as external stakeholders including customers, industry bodies and government."

Bharti Airtel Lanka (Pvt) Ltd is a subsidiary of Bharti Airtel that commenced commercial operations of services in Sri Lanka in January 2009, and grew to become the fastest operator to reach the 1 million customer milestone in the country. Since then, Airtel has expanded its presence to 1500+ base stations across Sri Lanka and introduced a wide range of innovative service offerings towards enriching the lives of its customers. With over 242 million customers across 19 countries of its operations across Asia and Africa - Bharti Airtel is one of the world's largest integrated telecommunications companies in the world today. The company is committed to driving the adoption of high speed 3G data services across its markets.

Suren Goonewardene, who has earlier worked with Dialog Telekom and Lanka Bell, has over 16 years of work experience across areas of finance, sales, marketing and operations. At Dialog Telekom - he managed the Fixed Telecom Services and Television portfolio, and successfully drove the television business to market leadership position with Suren as Chief Operating Officer.

Previously, Suren also held the position of Managing Director at Bell Lanka, where he played an eminent role in building and commissioning an island-wide fixed wireless network. His contribution at Bell Lanka was significant towards driving the company's market leadership position in CDMA technology and driving the company's growth chart from a small telco to becoming the country's second largest fixed line operator.

Suren holds a degree in Business Accounting from Monash University in Australia and is a member of the Certified Practicing Accountants of Australian. He also holds a Graduate Diploma in Marketing from Chartered Institute of Marketing in UK.

In his new role, Suren will report to Vineet Taneja, Operations Director – South & Sri Lanka at Bharti Airtel.





Trade union action in public utilities affects public at large – Minister

January 19, 2012, 9:51 pm

By Ifham Nizam

Workers had a right to hold protest campaigns to win their demands but as regards essential services one had to be cautious as it affected the public at large, Power and Energy Minister Patali Champika Ranawaka warned yesterday.

Speaking at a ceremony after the laying of the foundation stone for the construction of the Ceylon Electricity Board's new headquarters building named Vidulkapaya at Evergreen Road, Narahenpita, Minister Ranawaka assured that the CEB would take measures to provide electricity to the public at any cost.

He said that the Cabinet had instructed the CEB management to look into salary ratios and other issues affecting the workers.

Plans were afoot with an overall investment of Rs. 200 billion to improve the CEB which now had a system similar to a first power generation set in England 100 years ago, the Minister noted.

Ranawaka added that nearly 370 acres belonging to the CEB were mostly idling in isolated locations. Profitable ventures and service oriented projects would be undertaken for the betterment of CEB and public in those lands, he said.

CEB Deputy General Manager, M. Z. M. Faleel said that the proposed green CEB building estimated to cost Rs. 1,600 million would be completed by December 2013. The two towers will have ten storeys each.

The two-acre land has a floor area of 235,000 square feet including 9,000 square feet of commercial floor area.





Road mishaps kill 223schoolchildren in 2011

Police promise stern action against reckless drivers

Police say 223 schoolchildren were killed and 4,100 others critically injured in road accidents in 2011. In 2010, 223 students died in road mishaps while 3,400 were injured.

by Harischandra Gunaratne

Wednesday's disastrous accident in Mt. Lavinia, where nine schoolchildren were injured, has jolted the police into mulling tough measures against reckless drivers.

Police spokesman SP Ajith Rohana, addressing the media, yesterday said 223 schoolchildren had been killed and 4,100 others critically injured in road accidents in 2011. In 2010, 223 students had died in road mishaps while 3,400 were injured, he said.

The driver of the ill-fated school van in Wednesday's accident was only 21 years old and he had obtained his driving licencee in June last year, SSP Rohana. Action would be taken to cancel the driving licences of those who exposed children to danger, he said.

"The police alone cannot control this situation and they need the cooperation of parents and the public," SP Rohana said.The police called the media briefing in the wake of President Mahinda Rajapaksa calling for a report from IGP N. K. Ilangakoon on Wednesday's accident in the Mt. Lavinia police area.

The Presodebtial Secretariat said that President Rajapaksa had also directed the National Child Protection Authority (NCPA) to take tangible action to discipline private van operators.





Killinochchi gets its own dairy processing centre

* Ship load of cows on the way as current capacity too low for BOC, Cargills venture

January 19, 2012, 8:55 pm

Governor greeting a politician?

Not so.Central Bank Governor Ajith Nivard Cabraal hands over a cow to a dairy farmer in Killinochchi, located in the once conflict-torn Northern province, at the foundation laying ceremony of the Yalpanam Dairy Industry, a joint venture between the Bank of Ceylon and Cargills Ceylon.

BoC Chaiman Dr. Gamini Wickramasinghe speaking at the foundation laying ceremony in Killinochchi earlier this week said the bank was also keen on promoting organic farming in the region, where produce are tagged with a premium price.

He said a ship load of cows would be imported from India and distributed among the farmers in the area for more milk production, as the current production was insufficient to maintain the dairy processing centre.

He promised the citizens of the region the venture would be a profit sharing one with the producers, with a high price also paid for their milk.

Central Bank Governor Ajith Nivard Cabraal speaking at the ceremony noted that the province has performed extremely well projecting a 22 percent GDP growth rate and said the government and the Central Bank was focusing on attracting more investments.

"Ensuring a normal and better life to the citizens," he said, "access to capital is being eased for the province so more entrepreneurs could be created for the country to achieve rapid growth and double its per capita income."

He said it was important that wealth was distributed in an equitable manner across the country in order sustain peace and normalcy.





S de S. Jayasinghe beat Kingswood

Under-19 Cricket

January 19, 2012, 9:19 pm

In what could be a huge step towards cementing their place as the top team in Division II S. de S. Jayasinghe College recorded their ninth outright victory of the season beating former Division I cricket stronghold Kingswood College by 119 runs in their tournament match in Kandy yesterday.

Ishara Kuruvita grabbed the bowling honours for the visitors in the second innings as he picked up five wickets to skittle out Kingswood for 98 runs.

Twenty three wickets fell on day one of the match between Bandaranaike College, Gampaha and Gurukula College, Kelaniya with the latter taking the first day's honours in their match at Mahara Prison Ground yesterday.

Revata College, Balapitiya recorded a convincing nine wicket victory over Devananda College, Ambalangoda as Buddhika Madusanka completed a match bag of ten wickets including a seven wicket haul in the second innings at Ambalangoda yesterday.





India releases six Lankan fishermen held in Andaman Island

January 19, 2012, 9:57 pm

By Maheesha Mudugamuwa

Six Sri Lankan fishermen, along with their fishing vessels seized off the Andaman Islands of India, had been released on Wednesday (18), Fisheries and Aquatic Resources Development Minister Dr. Rajitha Senaratne said.

Those fishermen who left Sri Lanka on March 7, 2010 from Trincomalee had been arrested by the Indian Coast Guard and imprisoned in Andaman Islands, the minister said. They had been detained for nearly two years.

When the fishermen were produced in the Andaman Islands courts on Monday (16), the Sri Lankan government had secured their release with the help of the Indian authorities, the Minister said.

Dr. Senaratne said that Indian officials had arrested the fishermen who crossed the International Maritime Boundary Line (IMBL).

The Minister had instructed that officials of Sri Lanka's Deputy High Commission in Chennai be sent to the Andaman Islands to facilitate the release of the fishermen and their vessels, Fisheries and Aquatic Resources Department said.

Besides, Dr. Senaratne said the Ministry had taken steps to prepare a monitoring system for fishing vessels. The surveillance system would be activated with the assistance of a satellite located above the Indian Ocean, he said. That would enable fishermen to locate the maritime borders, call for help in case of emergencies and find rich fishing grounds, Minister Senaratne said.

Another feature of the system was the ability to obtain satellite weather reports containing information about earthquakes, tsunamis etc.





Three retired judges face arrest over failure to return official vehicles

January 19, 2012, 10:43 pm

By Samantha Illeperuma

The three judges who have not returned their official vehicles after retirement would be arrested, the vehicles seized and produced before Court, the Fraud Investigations Bureau told the Colombo Chief Magistrate's Court in a report filed yesterday.

The report submitted to Colombo Chief Magistrate Rashmi Singappuli by the FIB stated that the probe was conducted on a complaint made by Additional Secretary to the Ministry of Justice Dasanka Andara.

It said that the three judges in question by failing to return the vehicles after retirement and continuing to use them were committing criminal misappropriation.

As a consequence of three separate complaints lodged against High Court Judges S. M. D. N. de Silva, R. T. Vignarajah and former District Judge Pearl Karaliyadde Gunatilleke, investigations against them had been launched. The Ministry was continuing to pay rentals to a leasing firm for the three cars, according to the complaint.

Making further submissions in respect of the complaints, FIB said it was deemed mandatory for the judges and the officials to return all vehicles that had been allocated to them while they were in service and it was the duty of the complainant to hand them to those officials while in service as well as to take them back, once they retired. Those vehicles had been taken on lease from Central Finance Co PLC with Treasury approvals as the Ministry did not have vehicles to provide for these officials.

The magistrate, having considered the submissions made by the FIB ordered it to complete the investigations and submit a report to Court immediately.





Sri Lankan student found hanging in hostel room

Bhopal,Jan 19: A Sri Lankan student of the Maulana Azad National Institute of Technology (MANIT) was found hanging in his hostel room Today morning, police said.

No suicide note has been recovered from the 20-year-old 2nd year Bachelor of Engineering (B.E.) student.

"His body was found hanging inside his room. The room was closed from inside. However, we have not found any suicide note from there," said officer in-charge of the Kamla Nagar police station K.S. Bhadoria. (IANS)





Mahinda take disciplinary action against captain

January 19, 2012, 10:37 pm

By Reemus Fernando

Sohan Kariyawasam captained Mahinda College at yesterday's tournament match against Sri Sumangala College, Panadura at Maggona after the team's regular captain Chalana de Silva was suspended for an alleged incident of rolling the pitch in the absence of match officials in their previous match against Dharmasoka College.

A Mahinda College official said that de Silva was removed as the captain with immediate effect and was suspended for yesterday's match following allegations of unlawful rolling of the pitch on the second day morning of their match against Dharmasoka, last Saturday.

Following allegations made by Dharmasoka officials the match was called off without a ball being bowled on the second day and the Under-19 tournament secretary requested a report from umpires.

At yesterday's match Mahinda were 45 for one wicket at close in reply to Sri Sumangala College 220 runs.





Understanding the Z score concept; the simple way

January 19, 2012, 7:28 pm

The word 'score' in Sri Lanka generally meant the number of runs scored by cricketers. However, with the rapid and drastic decline of Sri Lankan cricket, a score of a different kind has created unprecedented and widespread interest among all levels of social strata and politicians. Therefore, the place for Z score in examinations merits close scrutiny.

The bottom-line is; what happened to the Advanced Level Examination with regard to the ranking process is totally unacceptable. This is an error of the highest magnitude and as a result, it has dented very seriously, the confidence of students and the general public. The matters concerning examinations should be considered 'sacred'.

However, the error has taken place. Now what is required is to take all measures to rectify it and prevent recurrences, as the country simply can't afford to have another similar episode. At present, all the indications are said to be due to an error that has taken place at the ranking process. It has nothing to do with the concept of Z score being used in the process. Therefore, the introduction or usage of Z score at the A /L Examination is not to be blamed.

The explanations with various formulae will only confuse the public. Let us simplify the concept of Z score without formulae. We will consider the following.

* The total of students who have sat for the Advance Level Examination in 2011 – called the Student Population.

* Let us take the subject Chemistry as an example. We can calculate the average mark – that means, by adding all the individual marks and divided by the number of students who sat the Chemistry paper and were considered in the sample.

* Assume the average for the Physics paper is 35% (it means a difficult paper and most students have not done well). If a student (Prasad ) has obtained 68% marks for Physics, it means Prasad has done well in a difficult paper where others have found it difficult (reflected by the average being only 35% marks). Therefore, Prasad very correctly deserves high recognition for doing well when his fellow students have not done well at Physics paper. This factor is considered in making the Z score. Prasad will obtain a high Z score

* In a different scenario, if the Chemistry paper is easy and the students have done well, resulting high average (mean). Assume the average mark for chemistry is 63%. In this situation another student (Sudath), getting the same marks, 68% for Chemistry, is not comparable with Prasad's performance. Sudath will obtain a relatively low Z score. Although the marks of Prasad and Sudath are the same, it is only reasonable to consider that Prasad deserves better than Sudath (as Prasad has obtained 68% for a difficult paper where the average is only 35%, whereas Sudath has obtained 68% for an easy paper where the average is 63%.) Therefore, if there is one place and we have to select one, who will deserve the place? Obviously, Prasad is the choice for obtaining high marks for a difficult paper, thus a high Z score)

* In the above scenario, if we consider raw marks , both Prasad and Sudath will be unfairly equal and both will have the same claim for selection. Therefore, it is the Z score that will do justice.

* Thus, it is very evident that the Z score has the ability to differentiate good students from the average and the best or exceptional students from the good students.

* The Z scores are widely used the world over in dealing with figures (data) in populations. Such good examples would be the Growth Charts of Children (used in Sri Lanka also), Nutritional Classifications etc. produced by the World Health Organization (WHO).

Further, if the Z score is abolished and only the raw marks are considered at the A/ L Examination, there will be a tendency for students to choose subjects which are generally considered easy to obtain high marks. The subjects which are generally known to be difficult to obtain marks will face extinction from the system as these subjects will not be selected by the students.

Under these circumstances, there is no justification to remove the Z score concept at the A/L Examinations, particularly, when the present crisis is not due to a fault of the Z score concept.





Two Lankans held for credit card fraud

Two Sri Lankan nationals, who allegedly cloned credit cards using information pertaining to customers of banks abroad were arrested here on Wednesday.

Seventy fake cards and Rs.1.16 lakh in cash they withdrew from various automated teller machines (ATMs) in the city were seized.

Police sources identified the arrested as Vinod (23) and Nandeepan alias Deepan (31), who were residing in a rented house in Muttukadu. While Vinod has been staying in Chennai since 2007, Nandeepan came to the city in 2010.

Investigations revealed that the duo had come to the city on the instructions of Kumar (28) and two of his accomplices, who are also Sri Lankan nationals and bankcard fraudsters.

"Kumar and his men, who were operating in the city, had taught Vinod how to produce fake credit and debit cards and withdraw money. Kumar and his accomplices left for Malaysia October last year leaving Vinod to handle the illegal operations here," said an investigating officer.

Last week, Kumar sent Vinod details of an email address along with its password. The email ID contained mails with data of 70 credit cards with PIN (personal identification number) of overseas customers, which Deepan downloaded.

Using a skimmer, decoder and encoder that Kumar had left behind, Vinod and Deepan used the information and made fake cards in their house in Muttukadu.

Later, the duo used 22 cards in different ATMs across the city and withdrew the cash, the officer said.

Around noon on Wednesday, Special Sub Inspector Balasubramanium, who was on patrol duty in Baby Nagar, Velachery, spotted Vinod waiting near an ATM kiosk on a motorcycle.

The officer asked him to produce documents pertaining to the two-wheeler, which Vinod failed to do.

Meanwhile, Deepan came out of the kiosk and got into an argument with the police officer, Velachery police sources said.

Growing suspicious about their behaviour, the Special SI informed the station and sought more personnel.

The two persons were taken into custody. An inspection of Vinod's backpack revealed 70 fake credit cards and Rs.1.16 lakh in cash. Velachery police handed them over to the Bank Fraud Wing of the Central Crime Branch, sources added.





Colts on top despite Jayasinghe's ton

Premier cricket

January 19, 2012, 9:19 pm

Bloomfield's number six bat Chinthaka Jayasinghe whacked 131 off 95 deliveries with nine fours and ten sixes as wickets fell around him in their Premier League Tier 'A' match against Colts CC at Reid Avenue yesterday.

Bloomfield lost wickets at vital stages of the game and Jayasinghe came to the crease when the score read 81 for four wickets. However Jayasinghe's breathtaking innings was not enough to surpass Colts first innings total of 266.

Colts batting in their second innings expanded their first innings from 27 to 237 at the end of the second day's play. Colts scored 210 for 5 wickets with Malinda Warnapura and Kushal Janith Perera stroking half centuries.





Ananda delivered shocking knockout blow

Under-13 Division I Cricket

January 19, 2012, 9:17 pm

By Reemus Fernando

Unbeaten Ananda College was delivered a shocking knockout blow by Kalutara Vidyalaya when the visitors recorded an unlikely five-wicket win over tournament favourites in the Inter School Under-13 Division I tournament pre quarter final match played at Ananda Mawatha yesterday.

After being 38 for five wickets at one stage Ananda recovered to post 146, but the total proved to be inadequate as Pathum Nissanka scored an unbeaten 67 runs to guide Kalutara Vidyalaya to a quarter final slot.

Eranga Jayasinghe and Viran Jayathilake shared seven wickets between them for Thurstan College to restrict Bandaranaike College, Gampaha to 97 runs and record a 101-run victory in the Under-13 Division I pre quarter final match at Thurstan Ground yesterday.

Two quick half centuries by Revon Kelly and Kevin Fernando and a five-wicket haul by skipper Harin Cooray powered St. Joseph's College to a 55 runs victory over Maris Stella College, in the Inter School Under-13 Division I pre-quarter final match at Darley Road yesterday.





People's Bank holds 'Learning Forum 2012'

January 19, 2012, 9:07 pm

Providing a great opportunity to bring out the hidden talents and skills of more than 10,000 staff members under the spot light, the Research and Development Department of People's Bank has organised 'Learning Forum 2012' which was recently held at the People's Bank Staff Training College Auditorium.

P Samarasiri, the Assistant Governor of the Central Bank was the chief guest at this event and it was attended by Board Members of People's Bank, D.J.D. Jayakody, M.M.P.K Mayadunne and Jehan. P. Amarathunga, Chief Executive Officer/ Deputy General Manager, N. Vasantha Kumar as well as the corporate & executive management of the bank and a large number of staff members.

This 'Learning Forum' was organised under the guidance of Senior Deputy General Manager/ Director of Research, K.U. Pushpakumara, encouraging to have a thirst for knowledge among the staff of People's Bank as well as to develop the research skills in them.

Among the research reports submitted to the 'Learning Forum', the research report,Efficient Market Hypothesis & Colombo Stock Exchange submitted by Gayan Lakmal Alwis of the People's Bank Treasury Division was chosen as the best report.





Govt. not prepared to stop oil import from Iran

January 19, 2012, 10:46 pm

By Ravi Ladduwahetty

The government assured the public yesterday that it was ready to meet any eventualities if the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation, Ceylon Electricity Board and the National Water Supply and Drainage Board trade unions got out of hand while assuring that all supplies of those essentials would be uninterrupted.

"We are ready to meet any trade union action if the unions decide in that direction", government spokesman Keheliya Rambuwella told the weekly post-Cabinet news conference.

When asked how he was to assure uninterrupted supplies and meet their challenge, he said that the government would announce it at the right time.

He was asked how the government would react if the trade unions effected crippling strikes in all those essential services.

The Minister said that the government would be able to pay only 25% salary increase to those workers over the next three years, but the unions insisted that under the collective agreement a 45% salary increase was payable in three years. The government could not afford to pay at this stage such big increases and it was people's money.

The government would have to increase the prices of petroleum, electricity and water rates to accommodate those demands which it was not prepared to do, he said.

When pointed out that the position of the unions was that there was no reason for the government not to give increases when the salaries of Ministers, their allowances and perks were increased, the Minister flatly denied it.

Asked what the government position was in relation to the United States requesting all countries to embargo oil imports from Iran, he said that Sri Lanka was a non-aligned country and was not bound to the dictates of the US.

He assured that there was no decision to stop oil imports from Iran at this stage.





On Nibbana

January 19, 2012, 7:27 pm

While being grateful to learned Nalin De Silva for

spending his valuable time to raise an interesting point on the above topic, let me comment further from what I have gathered from Noble 'Suttas' with due respect to Nalin De Silva. Firstly, I think it is important to know the correct meaning of the word 'Bhava' as explained by the Blessed One. In the 'Thika Nipatha' of 'Anguttara Nikaya' the word 'Bhava' has been described as the formation of 'Kamma' for consequences.

Also in 'Gotama Sutta' in 'Sanyutta Nikaya'-02, the word 'Bhava' has been described as the cause for Birth ('Bhava Pacchaya Jati'). When the meaning of the word 'Bhava' becomes clear, the issue of whether an 'Arahant' is deathless or immortal will become clear. In 'Thera Their Gatha' of 'Kuddhaka Nikaya', Theri Yasodha declares that "Nibbana is devoid of death and attaining 'Nibbana' is the root for being immortal."

As regards the reason for not answering the question of what happens to an 'Arahant' after death, I kindly request Nalin De Silva to read 'Chula Malunkya Sutta' in 'Bhikku Wagga' in 'Majjima Nikaya -02'. In it, the Blessed One clearly mentioned the reason for not answering 10 questions, including the above question repeatedly posed to him by one Bhikkhu Malunkyaputta . Also, it is important for us to know that any person (A god or a human being) who seeks refuge in Triple Gems is not a 'Pottujjana' but becomes an 'Arya Shravaka'. This has been mentioned in hundreds of 'Suttas'.

It is important for all of us to be mindful of the fact that

'Nibbana' has to be attained by following Noble Eight Fold Path and it is not possible to comprehend what 'Nibbana' is through rational argument. I take this opportunity to thank Nalin De Silva, who is deeply respected by many Buddhists, for frequently imparting his wisdom through your newspaper.





I will think about the captaincy – Mahela

January 19, 2012, 10:34 pm

by Rex Clementine reporting from Kimberley

It's a job that he said he didn't want three years ago and last year after the ICC Cricket World Cup in April he stepped down from the team's vice-captaincy too, but Mahela Jayawardene said yesterday that he would 'think about it' if the post of captaincy was offered to him on the national cricket team's return home.

SLC's new Chairman Upali Dharmadasa is believed to prefer a change in the leadership role and Jayawardene is said to be the leading candidate to take over the captaincy. However, the new national selection panel headed by Ashantha de Mel has not made any comments regarding the captaincy.

"I'll think about it and I need time. It's a big one. It's a big question. Not the easiest one. But I need time to think about that," Jayawardene said yesterday responding to a question from The Island.

Although it's speculated that Dharmadasa had had discussions with Jayawardene to take over the leadership role when he was Chairman of the Interim Committee, Jayawardene declined any talk taking place between the two. "No, not with me. Nothing with me, No one has spoken to me," he said.

"I've seen the articles and it's been there for the last six months and I know that. But those things are not in my control. I'm just here, purely concentrating on this tour and trying to get over my injuries," Jayawardene, who will turn 35 this year, added.

Although he seems to be the preferred choice for the leadership, Jayawardene himself has not helped the team's cause during the last eight months. During the whole of this tour he has not scored a half-century and in fact he failed to make a half-century during the Test series losses to Pakistan and England last year. In his last 22 Test innings Jayawardene has not scored a half-century away from home!

Jayawardene understood the plight of Dilshan, who could become the scapegoat for the team's struggles at the end of the tour and sacked despite him maintaining that he will not step down.

"I know Dilly is a good player and a good leader. He tried his best. A captain is as good as his team. I've always said that," Jayawardene added probably remembering the torrid time he was given as Sri Lanka's captain when the team struggled.

"When the team is doing well, everything turns in your way, but at certain times, it doesn't. I don't think, we should be pointing fingers at anybody right now. I think, as a team we should take responsibility for the way we have performed," he further said.





Sri Lanka's search for FDIs received a major boost yesterday with Japan's top multinational conglomerate, Marubeni Corporation, announcing its intension of returning to Sri Lanka after leaving these shores in 2008 citing the then weak economic environment. Since then, a lot has changed and top officials of the Japanese diversified group visited the country on a fact-finding mission to recommence operations here, the Ministry of Industry and Commerce said.

"Marubeni wants to re-commence operations in Sri Lanka in due course. The discussions with their fact finding mission today was very successful," Rishad Bathiudeen, Minister of Industry and Commerce of Sri Lanka said yesterday (Jan. 19).

Marubeni's fact finding mission was led by Wataru Yoshida, Marubeni's Tokyo based Corporate Officer and Senior Operating Officer and comprised three other officials including Shinya Watanabe, Chairman and Managing Director of Marubeni India.

Marubeni, which was already active in Sri Lanka for 25 years, closed its operations on May 1, 2008 citing unfavourable economic conditions. Marubeni's return is also expected to boost Sri Lanka's FDI inflows further.

"We also are present in power projects and infrastructure, plants and industrial machinery, finance, logistics and information industry, and real estate development and construction," said Wataru Yoshida. "We are the largest independent power operator in Japan and energy trader in Japan. We have more than 40 operations across the world including Qatar and even Papua New Guinea. We have projected a net profit of US$ 1.8 billion for 2011 which we want to invest in selected countries, including Sri Lanka. Now, we want to recommence operations in Sri Lanka. In fact, we want to open our Colombo office as soon as possible," Yoshida said.

Shinya Watanabe, Chairman and Managing Director of Marubeni India revealed: "Marubeni India is keen on power projects in Sri Lanka. Marubeni India is now in a position to supply with LNG Gas (Domestic gas) to Sri Lanka if necessary, using our LNG terminals across the Eastern Indian shore. We import around five million tonnes of LNG to India." Shinya Watanabe added: "We are also strong in the Combine Cycle Power Plants (CCPP) sector which we think that Sri Lanka can make good use of. We already have ongoing CCPP projects in Thailand and Indonesia in association with Siemens, among the many project countries." CCPPs use both gas and steam turbines to supply power to the grid and is considered to be an efficient generation mechanism since it uses waste heat to produce steam which in turn generates additional electricity through the steam turbine.





Favourites Sirisena and Madurangi have competition at TT nationals

January 19, 2012, 9:16 pm

By Ravi Nagahawatte

Rohan Sirisena would cherish another national singles crown at the upcoming National Table Tennis Championships, but there are other hungry wolves in the likes of Nirmala Jayasinghe, Dinesh Deshappriya and former national champion Chalitha Ranjana who could spoil the party for him.

Sirisena didn't have to sweat much at the last edition of the tournament in 2011 (played for the calendar year 2010) when he made short work of Dinesh Deshappriya, who represented Sri Lanka Navy, in the finals.

But 12 months from that event we see players like Jayasinghe and Udaya Ranasinghe working hard on perfecting their shots and posing a real threat to the champion, Sirisena, who represents Sri Lanka Air Force.

This will be the 65th edition of the nationals and the significant feature about this year's tournament is that the nationals have returned to the Central hills after a lapse of many years. Matches will be played at the picturesque Jagath Rajapaksha International Table Tennis Stadium in Peradeniya on January 21 and 22. It is also interesting to see how the players from Colombo and Ambalangoda negotiate the cool weather in Peradeniya and keep themselves warm during matches.

Ishara Madurangi is the favourite once again to win the women's open singles, but there are players in the likes of young Nuwani Nawodya, a 16-year-old lass, who has the potential to make Madurangi wilt under pressure. The two met in the finals last year and Madurangi emerged the victor.

Nawodya is an Olympic Target player and she could strike it rich if she is able to topple the experienced Madurangi, who is also working hard to earn a ticket to the 2012 London Olympics. There is speculation that Nawodya is granted a ticket for the Olympics, as she is an Olympic target player. However, the TTASL squashed this speculation saying that all Olympic target players had to still play in the Olympic qualifiers and create their passage to the games. The other Olympic Target Player is Shashiranga, but the teenager from the South has quit playing the sport to concentrate on studies.

Chandana Perera of the TTASL told The Island that all Sri Lankan national players would get an opportunity to contest the Asian Qualifiers for the Olympics which will be held in April in Hong Kong. Another hot prospect to dazzle in the women's singles is Erandi Warusavithana who is rated as the bottom seed.

As many as 150 paddlers have entered the championships.

The events to be worked off at the nationals are Open Men's Singles, Open Women's Singles, Open Men's and Women's Doubles, Mixed Doubles, Veterans and Masters championships,

The players who lose in the first and second rounds in the Men's and Women's Singles will be eligible to play in the consolation events.

After a lapse of three years, a tournament for disabled players will be held on the final day of the nationals (January 22).









$ 19 mn Indian-funded project completed by Singapore-based US firm

KKS ship wrecks cleared

January 19, 2012, 9:50 pm

By Shamindra Ferdinando

The development of the Kankesanthurai harbour, the one-time nerve centre of naval operations in the Northern theatre has reached a crucial stage, with the clearing of about 10 ship wrecks, both in and outside the harbour.

The Singapore-based US company, Resolve Marine, one of those major operators with an underwater capability, carried out the operation under an Indian credit line. India planned to recover its investment here by selling ship wrecks.

The SLN told The Island that the wreck clearing operation had been successfully completed by Jan. 8 in the second stage of the five-phased project spearheaded by India. Among the wrecks were two belonging to the SLN and ICRC-chartered 'Sea Dancer', sunk by an LTTE sea mine at an earlier stage during the conflict.

During the war, the LTTE made a determined bid to disrupt the sea-line of communications between Trincomalee and KKS. Had they succeeded, the SLA frontline extending from Kilaly to Nargarkovil via Muhamalai would have collapsed, the SLN said, adding that targeting ships coming in and leaving the harbour was key to their strategy.

Addressing a public gathering near the Jaffna public library on Wednesday (Jan. 18), visiting Indian External Affairs Minister S.M. Krishna announced the completion of the wreck removal work at a cost of $ 19 mn. This would facilitate marine trade in the Jaffna peninsula and revive economic activity in the Northern Province, the minister said, assuring further grant assistance for the third phase of the project.

"We are undertaking the rehabilitation of Achuvely Industrial Zone to create employment opportunities in the Northern Province and to provide a platform for industrial development in Jaffna. We also hope the Government of Sri Lanka will develop Palaly as a civilian airport and restore its connectivity with India and within Sri Lanka. This will provide a tremendous fillip to the local economies in our two countries," the minister said.

The military said that KKS and Palaly would remain the main SLN and SLAF facilities in the Northern region, respectively. The northern fleet would continue to operate from KKS, the staging point for operations directed at curbing poaching by the Tamil Nadu fishing fleet.

The Indian navy paved the way for the rehabilitation of the KKS project by carrying out a comprehensive underwater survey using a state-of-the-art vessel. The removal of ship wrecks was the second and the third phase envisaged dredging followed by construction of a breakwater. The final stage envisaged improvements to piers.

In the wake of the tsunami, the Netherlands offered its expertise and financial assistance to revamp KKS harbour, though the project never got off the ground. Subsequently, the Chinese, too, are believed to have expressed interest in the project.

"Sri Lanka has emerged from three decades of armed conflict. Now peace has dawned. It is our sincere hope that the vision and leadership that resulted in an end to the armed conflict will now be employed in the quest for a genuine political settlement based on devolution of power resulting in national reconciliation among all the communities of Sri Lanka," Minister Krishna told Wednesday's meeting in Jaffna.

pic

Indian External Affairs Minister S.M. Krishna on Wednesday distributed bicycles among a group of war affected families during a public rally in Jaffna. Indian HC official said that under the project implemented by the UNHCR, India would provide 10,000 bicycles. (Pic courtesy Indian HC)





2011 A/L Results and the Z-Score method

January 19, 2012, 7:59 pm

By Dr. S. Arivalzahan

In recent days much attention has been focused on the Z-score calculation for the 2011 A/L results. This article examines the 2011 A/L Z-score calculation fiasco and the need for further research in developing a more appropriate scaling method.

Since year 2000, the Z-score has been used as the scaling method for ranking students at the G.C.E. (A/L) examinations for university admission. The Z-score is considered a better scaling method than the previous use of aggregated marks for comparing student performance in different subject combinations. For a particular subject the Z-score is being calculated using the formula, Z = (raw marks-mean marks)/Standard Deviation of marks.

In the above formula, mean is a measure of location and standard deviation is a measure of dispersion.

In the year 2011, two different G.C.E. (A/L) examinations were conducted for old and new syllabuses. While the repeat candidates sat for the old syllabus examination, fresh candidates sat for the new. Consequently for a particular subject, the Department of Examinations had two different sets of marks, one for the old and new syllabuses. Thus, when there was a need to calculate the Z-score to rank and enlist both candidates to find a common cut out for University admissions the Department of Examination was in a dilemma.

The interesting point is that in year 2000 the Z-Score was introduced by Prof. R.O. Thattil as a tool to solve such a problem. Therefore, it should not be a problem for the Department of Examinations, and for a particular subject, they should have considered the two sets of marks separately and calculated the Z-score for each examination separately. Then as usual the average of the Z-scores of the three subjects of a particular student could have been used for the ranking purpose.

Another argument that has been put forward here is that since the population of repeat candidates is smaller compared with the population of fresh candidates, and the repeat candidates are filtered students (not qualified in one or more A/L examinations), therefore, treating the repeat examination marks separately might give unnecessary benefits to repeat candidates. This same problem will arise during G.C.E. (A/L) 2012 examinations too. There is also a set of candidates who will sit for the exams as repeat candidates and the number of this student population is going to be again much smaller.

Though the Department of Examinations have not yet revealed the method they used to calculate the Z-score in the last A/L examinations, Prof. Thattil in his article has mentioned that for the 2011 A/L examinations, the means and variances of the two different examination marks have been pooled for the calculation of the Z-Score of a particular subject. In his article he has given the equations which were used to obtain the pooled mean and variance.

Let us consider the same pooling problem in a more convenient scenario. Suppose a person (say A) has 80 Canadian dollars and 70 British pounds and another person (say B) has 75 Australian dollars and 65 Euros. Suppose we want to compare the wealth of person A and B. Then in order to measure the person A's wealth we usually convert Canadian dollars to US $ and then convert British pounds to US$ separately. Instead of doing this will we pool (add) the number of Canadian dollars and the number of British pounds together and then convert that amount to US$ (using an average exchange rate of Canadian dollar and British pound)? Every one knows that such pooling is wrong in the above case. Similarly, two different examination marks should also be considered as pertaining to two different populations. Therefore, it is obviously invalid to pool the parameters of two different examinations for the calculation of Z-Score. Prof. Thattil in his recent article clearly illustrated the above problem with a numerical example.

Therefore, if the Department of Examinations wants to use the Z-Score as a scaling method, they should not pool the means and variances of the different examinations. If the Department of Examinations feels it appropriate to pool the means and variances of the different examinations they should use some other scaling methods (not the Z-Score) for ranking purpose.

There is no perfect scaling method available and Z-Score is a widely accepted scaling method. However, there might be some drawbacks in the Z-Score method. Therefore, further research is needed in finding a better scaling method. Let us examine this in detail.

For the calculation of Z-score, we do not need to assume any particular probability distribution for the raw marks of a particular subject. Mean is a good measure of location and standard deviation is a good measure of dispersion for symmetric distributions. However, for skewed (non-symmetric) distributions mean is no longer a good measure of location and standard deviation is not a good measure of dispersion either. Therefore, we have to be careful in using Z-score for scaling, when the raw marks follow any non-symmetric distribution.

For non-symmetric distributions, Median (which is the 50th percentile) is the better measure of location, and Inter Quartile Deviation (IQD) is a better measure of dispersion than standard deviation. Inter Quartile deviation is the half of the difference between the 75th and 25th percentiles.

We could define a new scaling method, Median Centered Score (MCS) as, MCS = (raw marks – median marks)/IQD of the marks. The above MCS is robust to extreme values, as median and IQD are less sensitive to extreme values compared with mean and standard deviation respectively. However, MCS is yet to be validated using some real world data set. Moreover, further research is needed in developing a scaling method for non-symmetric distributions.

The Writer is President of the Jaffna University Science Teachers' Association





