I refer to the article by one Dr. K. Balasubramaniam (K.B) appearing in your esteemed newspaper in reply to my article entitled "" should doctors prescribe generic drugs or brand drugs".

All the non - clinical doctors, arm - chair physicians, politically oriented doctors and doctors working for NGOs always quote the late Professor Bibile's advice to WH0, whenever they advocate the desirability of prescribing generic drugs as against brand drugs. Late Professor Bibile's list of essential drugs is only an outdated historical document. Since Professor Bibile's time, the drug industry has progressed by leaps and bounds and Prof. Bible could never have even dreamt- of the vast number of effective modern drugs including the numerous life - saving antibiotics.

The wonderful drugs developed for the successful management of -coronary artery disease including the very effective statins and the large number of anti - cancer drugs that are available to the doctors were completely unknown to Prof. Bibile.

K.B., you do not seem to know that hundreds of thousands of rupees worth of insulin (generic) imported by the SPC during Prof. Bibile's time had to be destroyed as (a) the insulin did not control the blood sugar and (b) as many of the diabetic patients developed serious reactions and complications as a result of following Prof. Bibile's advice.

The antiepileptic drugs (generic) imported on Prof. Bibile's recommendation never controlled the convulsions (fits) and the entire stock had to be destroyed. KB, where were you at that time?

Millions of amoxycillin (generic) capsules imported by the SPC had to be thrown away as the antibiotic capsules did not contain any antibiotic. I believe a large number of patients treated with the above "dud" (generic) antibiotic would have died thanks to the decision to import the generic antibiotic at that - time. K.B., where were you KB at that time?

K.B., you as an arm-chair physician do not seem to know that vitamin A (generic) imported by the Health Ministry during Professor CC De Silvas time did not have an effect on the eye complications of children due to vitamin A deficiency in Kwashiokor (Protein - calorie malnutrition) patients. The distinguished Professor sent some of the above "'Vitamin A" capsules for quality control to a lab in India and according to the report, the generic vitamin A capsules did not contain any vitamin A, but contained only coconut oil! Although the Health Ministry imported a branded vitamin A later, by that time eve damage had already been done to the poor innocent children. Perhaps KB would not have heard about above "horror stories" (to use his own expression), although he appears to be an avid reader of horror stories. K. B. perhaps has not heard about another "'horror story" regarding generic saline imported by SPC. I myself collected 'a few bottles containing macroscopic particles and handed over the saline we received to the Health Ministry and later handed over the entire stock to the Health Ministry. Entire stock of contaminated saline had to be destroyed by the Ministry as they were found to contain impurities and as the entire stock was not fit for use in humans.

When doctors in the course of their practice prescribe drugs using the generic names, it is common knowledge that many pharmacists decide which cheap branded drugs should be issued to the patient and it quite often happens that the pharmacist or their assistants) issues the brand drug for which he receives an incentive from the pharmaceutical firms.

No effective Quality Control

In Sri Lanka

It is noteworthy that there is no good and effective quality control laboratory in Sri Lanka at present.

A good quality control lab is an essential requisite in this country where generic drugs and brand drugs can be tested. With the meagre facilities for testing of drugs in Sri Lanka, we cannot subject even antibiotics such as "augmenting" for quality checks in Sri Lanka at present.

"Cheap Things No Good - Good Things No Cheap"

Good quality generic drugs are not cheap though certainly cheaper than the original brand drugs. As I informed the readers, if the practising doctors prescribe using generic names, it will end up by many pharmacists deciding which cheap branded drugs should be given to the patient depending on the incentives the pharmacist gets from the drug firm.

As far as I am aware, to-date no generic drugs firm has developed a new drug. All the great discoveries regarding all essential drugs (with the exception of some drugs such as digitatis and aspirin) have been discovered by famous brand drug companies. All the latest life - saving antibiotics, statins, all the wonderful drugs used to treat angina and heart attacks and latest chemotherapeutic drugs given for cancer have been developed by brand drug firms.

Most proponents of prescribing only generics are NGO funded, WHO sponsored non - clinicians and arm - chair doctors trying to deny the fundamental rights of patients to get the most effective drugs during life threatening situation. Some of the proponents of generic drugs are aged pupils of Prof. Bibile and being of the same political persuasion as Prof. Bibile, still regard his outdated utterances as gospel. As I have never heard of K.B. until I read his article under reference, I cannot say whether KB is also of the same category. But he certainly appears to be one of the surviving great admirers of Prof. Bibile. As mentioned, in my 43 years practice, I fell into trouble by prescribing according to his advice.

If the country can afford to import all essential consumer goods, why should a patient who can afford it, not get good quality original drugs which he or she needs and can afford?

Less Than 0.5% of all drugs available in Sri Lankan pharmacies are pure generic

A survey carried out using three of the largest pharmacies in Colombo showed that over 99.5% out of over 5000 drugs available in Colombo are brand drugs (Cheap brands and expensive brands) and at present the number. of generics available in Colombo is less than 40 and some of these drugs such as aspirin, propranolol verapamil, and paracetamol are effective. When we at the specific request of poorer patients prescribe "SPC"' drugs, 99.5% of the drugs issued by our pharmacies are cheap brand drugs usually imported from countries such as India, Pakistan, Cyprus, Thailand and Bangaladesh. I would be grateful if KB could inform the readers as to how a regular supply of good quality generics could be assured to patients at present as less than 0.5% of all drugs available *in our pharmacies are generics. K.B., with less than 40 drugs available in our pharmacies being generic drugs. Do you honestly believe that you can fulfil your great mission of convincing the practising doctors to prescribe only generics during our lifetime, considering the fact that less than 0.5% of all the drugs available in our pharmacies are generics. KB, one can fool all of the people for some of the time some of the people all of the time, but not all of the people all of the time.

Finally KB, I would be very grateful if you could give honest replies to the following questions for the benefit of reading public who are quite intelligent. As I have never heard of you, after reading your article and your description as an office bearer of two high sounding NG0s, I made some inquiries and learnt that you are a qualified medical doctor though not a practicing one well past Biblical span of three score years and ten (Incidentally the term "NG0" has of late lost the respect it once commanded in Sri Lanka

KB, as both of us living in the evening of our lives, there is a possibility of our getting a serious illness such as a heart attack, stroke or cancer (which may God forbid in your case!). If you do develop such a serious illness and if you are conscious has no speech defect (aphasia) will you honestly request your physician to prescribe only generic drugs to you?

Suppose one of your children or somebody near and dear to you develops a serious infection such as typhoid or pneumonia will you request the doctor to prescribe generic antibiotics (available in our pharmacies) or good brand antibiotics?

K.B., I wish you best of luck and every success in all your noble NGO activities and your endeavour to popularise generic drugs in Sri Lanka in spite of the outdated views advocated so long ago by late our departed teacher, Prof. Senaka Bibile.





