Prime Minister tells UNPers at Kundasale: Come join us, be a party to development process

by Cyril Wimalasurendre

KANDY - Prime Minister Ratnasiri Wickremanayake invited UNP supporters, who had tolerated enough with their leader to support the leadership of President Mahinda Rajapaksa, at a Central Provincial Council election propaganda meeting held on Sunday at Kundasale.

"There is truth in the UNPers saying that they have tolerated enough with the leadership of Ranil Wickremesinghe. I invite all those UNPers who are disappointed with their leadership to join our camp because they do not achieve anything worth while by being patient," the Prime Minister said.

The rally was held in support of the United Peoples Freedom Alliance (UPFA) candidates at the forthcoming Central Provincial Council election.

Prime Minister Wickremanayake disclosing reasons for his absence at a meeting scheduled to be held at the same venue on January 09, said that he was compelled to postpone his attendance since he was expected to remain in Parliament on that day.

"The UNP had given notice of a motion of no-faith on the government, on that date, he said.

"But the UNP did not table the motion of no confidence although the notice of such a motion was given," the Prime Minister said.

The Prime Minister said, it is clear from this incident the bankruptcy of the UNP. It is unable to move in Parliament a motion of no-confidence given notice of by the party itself.

"It is not worth while clinging on to such a weak political party. The supporters of the UNP should now join us and vote for the symbol betel leaf."

"Join us and be a party to the development process of the government under the leadership of President Mahinda Rajapaksa," he said.

"The government had launched several development projects while taking measures at an unprecedented scale to crush terrorism. This is a decisive moment for LTTE terrorism and LTTE leader Prabhakaran. The war heroes after taking over control of Kilinochchi, the stronghold of the LTTE, are proceeding successfully to crackdown the last bastion of the LTTE at Mullaitivu. The moment the LTTE is crushed by our valiant forces is not far, he said.

"Terrorist leader Prabhakaran will be rounded up at any moment by our forces. I cannot say what the heroes will do with the terrorist leader. He has been so cruel to the country and the people. He killed in cold blood members of the Sangha and other religious dignitaries. He murdered innocent children and pregnant mothers and destroyed religious shrines of importance.

"The government is generously providing all that is required by the forces while on the other encouraging and blessing them. It supplies every article the forces needed to launch the battle against terrorist regardless of the cost. We must appreciate the excellent service of the forces.

"In order to encourage the forces and President Mahinda Rajapaksa, it has become necessary to elect the UPFA to gain power of the Provincial Councils. Accordingly, the Central Provincial Council must be of the UPFA. The people of the Central Province undoubtedly will vote for the UPFA at the election of February 14.

Environmental and Natural Resources Minister Patali Champika Ranawaka said that apart from other benefits to the people the President Mahinda Rajapaksa led government has benefited the country by the genuine effort to eradicate terrorism of the LTTE. The LTTE led by the most treacherous terrorist Velupillai Prabhakaran during last three decades caused disaster of the country and its people by murdering the innocent people including the clergy and causing destruction to places of worship.

Agriculture Minister Hemakumara Nanayakkara said that the people should extend unconditional support to President Mahinda Rajapaksa who had the courage to rout off terrorism while launching many development projects.

The UPFA should be elected to power in the Central Provincial Council, the minister urged.

National Freedom Front (NFF) Leader MP, Wimal Weerawansa said that President Mahinda Rajapaksa was the only head of the state and the head of the armed forces who declared that Kilinochchi, the stronghold of the LTTE should be captured and he did it."

President's arms must be strengthened by bringing the UPFA to power in the Central Provincial Council, he said.





