The attention of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka is drawn to certain recent media reports that there would be a imminent currency devaluation and that Sri Lanka will have to seek an IMF bailout package.

According to such reports, some economists have been quoted as saying that the current reserve position is similar to the one that prevailed during the times of the controlled economy in 1976. However, there is no truth whatsoever in such statement, as current levels of Gross Official Reserves are well above the levels that prevailed before 1977and are, in fact the reserves are even above the levels as at end 2004. Gross official reserves including ACU balances stood at US dollars 2560.5 million as at end 2008 compared to US dollars 2195.8 million at end 2004. Further, under the latest yen loan package announced in 2008, the Government of Japan has committed yen 35,000 million (US dollar 388 million) for various infrastructure projects and programmes. Accordingly, there is no evidence whatsoever to suggest that the Government of Japan will reduce or cut the committed funds for Sri Lanka.

At the same time, it is acknowledged that in the face of the global financial crises, there has been a decline in Sri Lanka's gross official reserves due to the sudden outflows of some foreign investments in Treasury bills and bonds, and the settlement of large amounts of petroleum bills during the months of October and November, 2008. However, the Central Bank has now taken the appropriate measures to build the reserves to a higher level, as already announced in the "Road Map: Monetary and Financial Sector Policies for 2009 and beyond". In this regard, some of the on-going activities are as follows:

= Arrangements of currency swaps with some central banks in order to boost gross official reserves. Some central banks have already responded positively and two such negotiations are at an advanced stage currently.

= Promotion of investments in Treasury bills and bonds among the Sri Lankan diaspora. Six lead managers that have been approved by the Central Bank have already taken several steps to promote these investments worldwide.

= With effect from 1st February 2009, the payment of a 20% bonus interest on NRFC and RFC deposits as a special incentive to encourage higher levels of inflows into NRFC and RFC accounts.

= Consideration of the introduction of a once-and-for-all concessional final income tax for new foreign exchange inflows if such inflows are liable to income tax. This incentive is expected to attract a significant inflow of foreign exchange earnings by Sri Lankans.

The Central Bank is confident that above measures will help build up official reserves to a substantial level and therefore the claims made by certain persons that there would be a significant devaluation or that Sri Lanka will soon apply for an IMF bailout are erroneous and misleading.





