Deputy Finance Minister Ranjith Siyambalpitiya told the media that Rs. 350 billion will be needed to implement Presidential candidate Sarath Fonseka's policy statement with the reduction of taxes and other implications.

President Mahinda Rajapaksa's statement also indicates that a high amount will be needed to provide the funds to all projects pledged in it. It seems that these costs have not been estimated in a proper manner.

According to Siyambalapitiya, the implication of Fonseka's statement will hurt the local population as the government will have to recover an amount of Rs. 350 billion to provide those facilities.

To provide all facilities pledged by Fonseka or President Mahinda Rajapaksa, it will become necessary to impose an additional tax burden on people, Siyambalpitiya says commenting on Fonseka's bonanza package.

Presidential candidate Sarath Fonseka's statement said that a Samurdhi beneficiary will get a minimum payment of Rs. 500, which, according to Deputy Finance Minister Siyambalapaitiya, will raise costs by Rs. 5 billion on the budget.

President Mahinda Rajapaksa's statement shows a minimum benefit of Rs. 1,000 and a minimum benefit of Rs 1,500 for those with children, aged less than three years, will be granted under the Samurdhi scheme. This will double or cost more than Rs. 10 billion, according to calculations.

Fonseka's promise of increasing the salary of all government servants by 10,000 according to siyambalapitiya will cost an additional funding of Rs. 144 billion plus 10 billion on other statutory payments.

The president's promise to increase the salaries of government servants by Rs. 2,500 will also require an additional Rs. 36 billion in implementation, plus Rs2,500 billion on other payments.

To pay Rs 2,000 to each senior citizen, as stated in Fonseka's statement, will raise public expenditure by Rs48 billion, according to Siyambalapitiya.

The President's statement that the payments to senior citizens will be increased to Rs. 1,000 will also cost half the amount of Fonseka's statement, estimated to be Rs. 24 billion.





