Inability to cope with losses is common to humans. Oppositionpresidential candidate Gen. (retd) Sarath Fonseka has found it difficult to come to terms with the ignominious defeat he suffered at Tuesday's election. It is only natural that he is reeling and smarting because he had high hopes. Never did he anticipate that his political blitzkrieg would collapse in this manner.

Fonseka thinks he should have been the President because of the large number of people present at his election meetings! But, as is common knowledge, crowds at political events are rather deceptive. After all, it is the JVP that accused the government of transporting people all the way from Hambantota to President Mahinda Rajapaksa's meetings all over the country. Two doctored photographs of President Rajapaksa purportedly addressing an election rally in Badulla––with dialogues and think bubbles––posted by Rathu Sahodarayas on the Internet, come to mind. In the first one, President Rajapaksa asks a cheering crowd, "What shall I give you, the people of Badulla?" An enthusiastic supporter in the front row shouts, "We need boats and fishing gear!" In the second picture, an irate President says to himself, "This fool from Hambantota is mucking it up!" Thoughts of another man in the crowd appear in a bubble: meka apita muhudakuth dennada yanne? (Is he going to give us a sea as well?)

Organising massive crowds is the JVP's forte. If it holds a rally in Colombo all its members scattered throughout the country flock there. Theirs is a low cost operation; they travel by bus and survive on buns and tea. The JVP must have brought people to Fonseka's meeting from near and far. On the other hand, thanks to wide publicity Fonseka used to get from the State media while being in the good books of the government and his fame as the former commander of a victorious army, he may have attracted crowds wherever he went. UNPers also attended his rallies in their numbers. Therefore, Fonseka may have been able to address well attended meetings.

If crowds meant votes, the JVP would win each and every election in this country. In 1982, JVP leader Rohana Wijeweera, who contested the presidential elections, had the biggest and most attractive rallies. He got carried away by his own gimmicks and acted as if he had thought he would win. The results exposed his real strength. He polled only 273,000 votes. It is said that he made a beeline for a friend's place after the results were announced, locked himself up and sobbed his heart out because he had expected at least one million votes!

Fonseka, who was involved in counter terror operations in the South in the late 1980s, should have known better than to fall for JVP tricks. The JVP is quite adept at creating illusions in the public mind. Its killer squads consisting a few members each roaming the country during its second uprising would surround a house at night and run around it several times making a great deal of noise before ordering that the door be opened so that the occupants, fearing that there were many intruders, would not resist. The moral of the story: One should not go by noises the JVP makes.

Fonseka's failure at Tuesday's election was due to a host of factors. His 'broiler Swan' could not find its way into the rural areas where nearly 75 per cent of voters live. He conducted a single issue campaign aimed at ousting President Rajapaksa and could not sustain it. It peaked prematurely and ran out of steam.

While promising a change, Fonseka found himself surrounded by political liabilities. UNP leader Ranil Wickremesinghe and JVP leader Somawansa Amarasinghe publicly admitted that they could not win against President Rajapaksa, but they undertook to help Fonseka achieve that feat! Thus, failures became the pillars of Fonseka's campaign.

Fonseka rushed to Horagoalla at the eleventh hour to receive former President Chandrika Kumaratunga's blessings while claiming that he would ensure good governance and battle corruption. Chandrika wanted her supporters to vote for him. But, Fonseka lost to President Rajapaksa in her bastion, Attanagalla by over 30,000 votes. (Rajapaksa obtained 61,000 (66.5 per cent) and Fonseka polled 30,110 (32.5 per cent). Interestingly, even Chandrika polled only 61 per cent of votes in Attanagalla at the Presidential Election in 1999.

Fonseka blundered by closing ranks with the pro-LTTE TNA. This unholy alliance had a devastating impact on his popularity in the South, President Rajapaksa's stronghold. That was political hara-kiri for a man who was trying his damnedest to secure the support of those who celebrated Prabhakaran's death a few months ago. He cooked his goose.

Fonseka's temper tantrums ruined his image. His frequent ranting and raving made people wonder whether a person with such a volatile temper was fit to be the Head of State.

His attempt to settle personal scores with the Defence Secretary by claiming that the latter had ordered the army to kill surrendering LTTE leaders and his threat to court-martial the ground commanders who had annihilated the LTTE's military muscles, for their alleged engagement in politics in the event of his victory, cost him public sympathy.

Thus, Fonseka's defeat in a contest against a popular president frantically campaigning for a second term prematurely came as no surprise. He has no one to blame for the disaster but himself; he took a blind plunge into politics at the behest of a group of failed politicians.

It may be recalled that Elections Commissioner Dayananda Dissanayake wisely said before Tuesday's election that the losing party should desist from trotting out foolish excuses, as his department had taken all precautions to ensure a free and fair election and explained them to all the candidates in the fray. The Opposition's claim that election results are unacceptable is an indictment on the much respected Polls Chief.





