In early 2009, the project office of Kalpitiya Integrated Tourism Development Project will begin its work, which will focus on developing 14 islands on an extent of 4,000 acres. It will be an integrated tourism development project. We have not undertaken anything of this magnitude since the 1960s when Bentota was developed. Similarly, we will have another project at Dedduwa in Bentota. Another plan for the next year is to work with the World Bank for sustainable development of tourism, for which 20 million dollars will be available. Right now, work is going on with regard to the World Bank project. Similarly, the government is also in the process of finalizing the agreement with the European Investment Bank, which has a 10 million Euro facility, part of which can be used by the tourism industry. According to the Department of External Resources and the DFCC, which will manage the resources under this facility, documentation will be made available to the Sri Lankan government for signature, by the European Investment Bank (EIB), shortly.

Q: What do you think of the present crisis situation worldwide and how it affects our country? How can we set out to promote the tourism industry within its confines?

An important factor is that the world is undergoing rapid globalization. So anything happening in one corner of the world, will impact positively or negatively in other parts of the world. For example, 9/11 occurred in the USA but had an adverse impact, worldwide. On the other hand, take our major export markets – such as the USA, EU, and several other developed countries. When these countries are adversely affected as a result of the financial crisis, our country will also be affected, as they cannot buy, as they did before. They will be more concerned about food on their tables, paying mortgages, etc. Those will be their priorities. Money that would have gone for purchasing of our apparel, porcelain ware, etc., would now go for these priorities.

Growth projections in terms of international tourism for 2009, was 6%. This year, tourist receiving countries will be happy if they can achieve 2% growth. And next year's growth will not be any better. So, in a bleak situation like this, it is inevitable for the tourism sector to suffer. But what is important is to learn how to float without drowning. We will have to ride this wave - what we can call an economic tsunami, and prepare ourselves for better days.

Two things need to be done. The first is to carry out a sustained campaign of promotion, which the Bureau is doing. And the other is, to improve our product, rather than allow it to deteriorate. There is yet another factor, how do we intervene positively to help the industry in a crisis situation of this nature.

The apparel and tea industries are in a dire state. Recently the cinnamon cultivators demonstrated, stating that they couldn't market their product. The government will increasingly find it difficult to rescue industries facing such situations. Realizing this, I have discussed with the senior management of the Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority, who came up with the proposal to establish a fund, which will have approximately Rs. 400 million over a period of 5 years. Such a fund can be used to carry out rescue operations in different situations. Such an arrangement will also enable the industry to accept that the Authority, which is collecting a Tourism Development Levy, etc., is setting aside part of the income for the benefit of the industry.

Q: In a personal capacity, what is the role of the citizens of Sri Lanka in promoting tourism – esp. domestic tourism?

Sri Lanka is a unique country and the lifetime of an individual is not enough to sample what the country has to offer. In other words, Sri Lanka is like an iceberg. We see only the tip of the iceberg. The greater part is yet to be discovered. So, with the purpose of involving Sri Lankans in sampling what the country has to offer, we came up with the Narambamu Sri Lanka concept, which will highlight places of interest in the country. With this programme, we are not only providing information on places of interest in various provinces, but also information on accommodation in those places, which will enable hoteliers to offer specific packages to domestic tourists. So, what the Sri Lankan tourist can do, is to make use of this opportunity to discover the country, which can also be a family affair, where the whole family can enjoy what the country has to offer from a tourist's point of view. We all know about Anuradhapura, Polonnaruwa, and Sigiriya, but there are little known places such as Ritigala, Maligawila, Sesseruwa, Awukana, Buduruwagala, Kushtarajagala, etc., numerous wild life parks, camping sites, areas for trekking, bird watching, white water rafting, hot air ballooning, etc. So there is a lot to do and a lot to discover within this small island.

There are tour operators that provide guided tours. Transportation is a problem for a majority of Sri Lankans. Here, those who do not have such facilities can tie up with hotels to come up with a solution. If you plan a tour – a short one – such tours can cover areas like Dambadeniya, Yapahuwa, and Panduwasnuwara. These sites are not too far away from Colombo, with if necessary, one night's stay.

Q: The tourism industry has struck a fine balance between public sector initiatives and private sector interests. How do you manage this situation?

Collectively, SLTDA and SLTPB are unique institutions, where public and private sector participation is at its maximum. This is a priority area from the point of view of the Hon. Minister of Tourism. Consequently, all four institutions coming under the Ministry of Tourism, the Sri Lanka Tourism Promotion Bureau (SLTPB), the Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority (SLTDA), the Sri Lanka Institute of Tourism and Hotel Management (SLTHM), and the Sri Lanka Convention Bureau (SLCB), have public sector as well as private sector participation in their boards of management. So, as a result, any critical decision affecting the interests of the industry is taken with private sector participation.

In conclusion Goonetilleke said that Sri Lanka Tourism, from the Ministry of Tourism downward to the senior management, are aware of the collapse faced by the industry as a result of the financial crisis. He assured that in consultation with the Ministry, the Tourism Development Bureau and the Tourism Development Authority are taking action to make representations to the authorities concerned with a view to assure and help thousands of workers attached to the tourism industry.





