College of Chemical Sciences produces the 31st batch of 64 graduate chemists

January 16, 2014, 10:39 pm

The College of Chemical Sciences, which is the educational arm of the Institute of Chemistry Ceylon, has just announced the passing out of its 31st batch of 64 Graduate Chemists from its Graduateship Programme in Chemistry which has now earned the distinction of producing nearly 50% of Sri Lanka's Graduate Chemists. These Graduate Chemists will receive their awards at the tenth Convocation of the College scheduled to be held on 3 rd April at Waters Edge Capital City with distinguished chemist Professor Atta Ur Rahman, former Federal Minister of Science and Higher Education in Pakistan as Chief Guest.

Professor J N Oleap Fernando, Honorary Rector of the College of Chemical Sciences states in a media release that Ms Jessica Perera who had a brilliant academic record coming first in her batch in all 4 years of study and winning many subject prizes and scholarships has been awarded the Sherine Jayasuriya Gold Medal for the best overall performance in Chemistry after obtaining a very high overall average of marks. It is indeed a strange irony that exceptional students such as Ms Perera are very often found riot fit enough to enter a conventional Sri Lankan University to follow any course of study. Ms Perera was wise enough not to waste her time, youth ,energy or money by unnecessarily repeating the A/L examination in order to once again attempt admission to a conventional University but chose to follow a globally accredited programme in Chemistry, which she was able to successfully complete within 4 years after her A/L examination.

To commemorate the completion of 40 years of professional chemical education in Sri Lanka through the College of Chemical Sciences, the Institute of Chemistry Ceylon will be holding a mammoth Chemistry Exhibition CHEMEX 3 from January 22-24th for the benefit of school children and the general public. International Conference on Chemical education will also be held from April 3-4 and will be attended by a number of distinguished chemists from several countries throughout the world.





Favouritism led to closure of neglected rural schools - Bandula

January 16, 2014, 10:39 pm

By Dasun Edirisinghe

Providing facilities only for selected schools under previous governments had resulted in rural schools being neglected and many being closed down during the last two decades, Education Minister Bandula Gunawardena said.

Addressing the national ceremony to admit children to Grade 01 at the Niyandagala Vidyalaya in Homagama, he said that the Rajapaksa government was able to re-open 327 schools countrywide after they had been closed for years.

More than 350,000 students were admitted to the Grade 01 of 9444 schools countrywide yesterday. Students and teachers of the Galagedara Tamil School and Puwakpitiya Tamil Primary School also participated in the National Ceremony at Niyandagala Vidyalaya.

Gunawardena said that the government had given priority to education considering it as the most effective arm of development.

"Our children in rural areas suffered for decades as only a privileged group had been given an English medium education under the British rule," he said.

Then most students and parents suffered due to the so called popular school concept, Gunawardena said adding that the government started to develop 1000 national schools and 5000 schools under the 'Student Friendly' school project to discard the popular school concept.

The minister said that according to the new concepts of the government, new projects would be launched linking Education, Higher Education and Youth and Skills Development Ministries together.





Ousted Kesbewa PS Chairman petitions SC

January 16, 2014, 10:27 pm

by Chitra Weerarathne

Petitioner Lakshman Perera of Kesbewa has complained to the Supreme Court against a decision taken by some office bearers of the Kesbewa Pradeshiya Sabha and the Commissioner of Elections that the petitioner resigned from the post of Chairman of the Kesbewa Pradeshiya Sabha, consequent to the defeat of the budget for the year 2014.

The petitioner has also described as illegal the decision by the same respondent to appoint Ranaweera D. S. William as Chairman.

The petition has said that the aforesaid decision was contrary to the broader objectives of the amendments in the Local Authorities (Special Provisions) Act No. 21 of 2012 and the statute cannot be applied to a council not elected under and in terms of the amendments brought in by the Local Authorities Elections Act No. 22 of 2012.

The petitioner has said that the unlawful actions of the respondents subjected the petitioner to arbitrary treatment and violated the right to engage in his rightful profession.

He wants the decision of the respondents declared null and void.

Among the respondents are the Pradeshiya Sabha of Kesbewa, its Vice Chairman, the Secretary, the Commissioner General of Local Government and the Commissioner of Elections.





Leader of the Nawa Sama Samaja Party (NSSP) Dr. Wickramabahu Karunaratne said that the Mahinda Rajapaksa government should ban the extremist Buddhist organistions which had taken the law into their own hands, to attack Muslim and Christian places of worship.

He told The Island yesterday (16) that three such organizations the Bodu Bala Sena (BBS), Sihala Ravaya (SR) and Ravana Balaya (RB) were backed by the government.

Dr. Karunaratne said owing to the political connection of these organisations the police were powerless to act against them.

The NSSP Leader said that the Communist Party (CP) Leader D.E.W. Gunasekera's statement that the Americans were threatening the government about Human Rights (HR) violations particularly during the conflict with the LTTE terrorists was extremely funny. Dr. Karunaratne said that the CP Leader was defending the government and going to the extent of claiming that it was a progressive administration. He said that Gunasekera seemed to have forgotten Marxism.

The NSSP leader said that the so-called Marxists wanted to cover up the government's repression of Tamil nationals and attacks on minorities and religious places.





Kudankulam second unit likely to go critical by June

January 16, 2014, 12:00 pm

by S Venkat Narayan, Our Special Correspondent

NEW DELHI, January 16: The 1000 MW second unit of the Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant (KNPP) in Tamil Nadu is likely to attain criticality by June, nearly a year after the first reactor crossed the milestone.

This was stated by Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) Chairman Ratan Kumar Sinha. "The second unit of the Kudankulam plant will attain criticality by May or June this year," he told reporters at the Chennai airport on Thursday.

The country's first 1,000 MW pressurised water reactor of the Indo-Russian joint venture project attained criticality (start of nuclear fission process) in July 2013, and commenced electricity generation in October. Presently it is producing over 400 mw, and will generate its full capacity of 1,000MW soon.

Sinha said Tamil Nadu will get "all of its share" from KNPP. Referring to the anti-nuclear protests against the plant during the last two years, he said the intensity had come down following efforts by authorities to educate people about the safety of the plant.

The commissioning of the plant was delayed considerably due to the protest spearheaded by the People's Movement Against Nuclear Energy (PMANE).

Last week, Union Minister V Narayanasamy said the second unit of the KKNPP will start generating electricity from September.





Yasiru, Pasan guide Rahula

Under-19 Cricket

January 16, 2014, 10:57 pm

Yasiru Hewanadugala and Pasan Samaratunga shared eight wickets between them for Rahula College, Matara to restrict Anuradhapura Central to 150 runs and earn first innings points in their Under-19 match ended at Uyanwatta Stadium yesterday. In their second essay Rahula were 79 for two wickets when the match was stopped due to bad weather.

Janith Liyanage cracked 145 runs in 144 balls inclusive of 12 sixes and eight fours as St. Peter's College posted 337 for five wickets declared against St. Sebastian's College on day one of their Under-19 Division I cricket encounter at Moratuwa yesterday.

Tharaka Dananjaya hammered 141 runs in 100 balls with 16 fours and seven sixes for Carey College to post 262 runs on day one of their rain hampered match against St. Anne's College, Kurunegala at Railway Ground, Dematagoda yesterday.





Holcim Lanka's Sanstha Cement builds new strength with an aggressive brand building campaign

January 16, 2014, 12:00 pm

Thursday, 9th January 2014, Puttalam: 'Sanstha Cement' holds the pride and privilege of being the preferred concrete brand of builders. Communicating the brands key outstanding attributes to the Sri Lankan construction stakeholders, Holcim Lanka embarks on a multimedia campaign. At a time when the entire nation is resurging and development is taking place across the country like never before, Holcim Sanstha will have great opportunities to contribute its best resources to build Sri Lanka. Holcim Lanka will launch its new campaign to the market on 9th January 2014.

Nalin Karunaratne – Vice President Marketing & Sales speaking at the event said, "In developing this campaign, the company followed a very scientific approach to identify key consumer insights. Further, the entire campaign was pre-tested prior to launch to ensure the right message was conveyed to the stakeholders."

As the pioneers in the cement industry, 'Sanstha Cement' is perceived to be the best cement for concrete, brick laying and plastering, making it the first choice for industry professionals who recognize its universal qualities. Holcim customers can avail of an array of value added technical services to enhance their experience of using Sanstha. The Holcim Innovation and Application Centre offer technical advice on the best methods for use and application of 'Sanstha Cement'. Holcim encourages key contractors and independent builders to avail themselves of this facility.

Philippe Richart, CEO Holcim (Lanka), commented, "As Sri Lanka's construction sector embarks on building a new Sri Lanka, with enhanced infrastructure and other commercial and individual structures, Holcim is proud to be at the forefront of this nation building."

Holcim has completed successful projects such as the Mattala Airport and the Kinniya Bridge, earning the trust of the nation. As a trusted supplier of cement for the last decade to Sri Lanka, Holcim is embedded in the hearts and minds of the people.

One in 3 homes in Sri Lanka uses Holcim, a profound testimonial of Holcim's credentials in the marketplace.

Holcim on a global platform has perfected its cement products over the last 100 years in its position as a clear market leader. Holcim offers guaranteed quality assurance, as the cement is tested at various stages during the manufacturing process to ascertain that its promise of high quality is maintained at all times, earning it the SLS mark from the Sri Lanka Standards Institution (SLSI). Holcim 'Sanstha Cement' is the only cement manufactured in Sri Lanka.





Stars hail ICC U19 Cricket World Cup as best platform for budding cricketers

January 16, 2014, 11:02 pm

With 30 days to go before the start of the 10th edition of the ICC U19 Cricket World Cup (ICC U19 CWC), former stars of the tournament have hailed it as the best platform for budding cricketers.

The ICC U19 CWC 2014 is scheduled to take place across seven venues in the UAE, and will feature the 16 leading Under 19 teams.

Sri Lanka Twenty20 International captain Dinesh Chandimal, who kept wickets for the country in the ICC U19 CWC 2008, said: "I thoroughly enjoyed playing that tournament, since it gives young players a great chance to test not just their skills but also their temperament, against players from other countries that are at a similar stage of development.

"Winning the Man of the Match award against Australia during the ICC CWC 2008 gave a tremendous boost to my confidence and self-belief, and told me I belonged to the big stage.

"I will follow the ICC U19 CWC UAE 2014 as keenly as I can, and look forward to spotting some exciting stars of the future."

Venkatapathy Raju, who played in the first edition of the tournament in Australia in 1988, went on to represent India in 28 Tests and 53 ODIs and was also a national selector, said: "As selectors, we always tried to push those youngsters that had performed well in the ICC U19 CWC into the senior squad, since they had proved themselves in a truly world event.

"I still talk about our U19 days whenever I catch up with the likes of Narendra Hirwani and Aqib Javed. The ICC U19 CWC has become a much more important tournament now than it was in our days, thanks to the efforts of the ICC, and every young cricketer wants to be a part of it now."

South Africa Test captain Graeme Smith, who was the leading scorer of the 2000 edition in Sri Lanka with 348 runs at an average of 87, said: "Playing the tournament was a big step up for me as a young cricketer. It was seen then as the pinnacle for all aspiring cricketers.

"At that level, I felt the important element was to go out there and to enjoy your cricket, make lasting memories and friendships," he said.

"My advice to those playing this tournament: Have fun! There are many young cricketers around the world that would love to have the opportunity of playing in such an elite event. Remember you are representing your country, so it's important to have pride in your performances on and off the field."

Mohammad Kaif, who led India to the ICC U19 CWC 2000 title, said: "Our winning the crown changed the landscape of age-group cricket in India forever, and for the best."

Reflecting on the impact of that success on cricket in India, he said: "We were recognised much more thanks to the media coverage, and the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) started investing a lot more in youth cricket by sending youngsters to foreign academies and giving budding cricketers much more international exposure at all levels. It also started a proper youth development programme after the ICC U19 CWC 2000, the results of which India is reaping now.

"Making it to even the Uttar Pradesh Ranji Trophy team was very difficult in those days, so I would never have played first class or international cricket so quickly had we not won the tournament. And that says it all, really."

Yuvraj Singh, who was the Player of the Tournament of the 2000 edition, agreed with Kaif, adding: "The ICC CWC 2000 was a tremendous stepping stone in my career. It gave me the confidence to do well in future global ICC tournaments such as the ICC World Twenty20 2007 and the ICC Cricket World Cup 2011, in which I contributed to India's title-triumphs. I had been there, done that.

"Beating Australia in the semi-finals was one of my happiest memories from the ICC U19 CWC 2000. And what a happy coincidence it is, that in 2007 we managed to beat Australia in the semi-finals and in 2011 we got past them in the quarter-finals!"

Junaid Khan, who was a member of the Pakistan squad for the 2008 edition, said: "The fact that so many of my peers from my U19 days – the likes of Ahmad Shehzad, Umar Amin, Umar Akmal, Shan Masood, Mohammad Amir and Usman Salahuddin – have also worn national colours, stands as a true testament to the ICC U19 CWC as a breeding ground for future stars.

"The bonds we have formed and the experiences we have shared during our transition to the senior team have all been lasting and memorable. We've grown together, learnt with and from each other, and can all say that playing the ICC U19 CWC went a long way in making us the players we are today," he said.

The ICC U19 CWC UAE 2014 will be staged across seven venues from 14 February to 1 March 2014. A total of 48 matches will be played, with India looking to defend the title it won in Australia in 2012.





'Sauce for the goose sauce for the gander':

Clarification needed

January 16, 2014, 12:00 pm

Ms Anne Abayasekara in her letter to The Island of Dec. 12, rightly crossed swords with Mr. M. J. A. N. Perera, who had, in a letter to the editor, given prospective brides some advice as regards achieving a successful marriage. The advice clearly suggested a patriarchal or as AA says, 'chauvinist' attitude as being the best base for a successful, 'A+' marriage. A. A's rejoinder to that 'amusing' advice (as she describes it) is a total rebuttal thereof and the contention in the Title above, namely, "Sauce for the goose is surely sauce for the gander" for wedded bliss.

My letter is however not as regards the particular subject matter of that debate. Its only relevance to me here is that it provides legitimacy to a call for some clarifications from Ms Abayasekara as regards her contention that "Sauce for the goose is surely saucy for the gander".

1) Have you been consistent in espousing this principle, or have you diverted there from depending on your views on particular issues, or on your part antipathies etc?

2) If you claim consistency as regards adhering to this Principle, would you please, in that context, clarify your stance/views as regards the following:

(i) In a letter to 'The Island' of 8.4.12, titled "Speaking of Terrorists" you castigated Minister Wimal Weerasansa, (WW) for having "the gall" to so speak against terrorism "in pious hypocrisy". Presumably you "were galvanized into action" (to quote your own words) in condemning WW's and the JVP's terrorist past, and you couldn't stand his "hypocrisy" in now displaying an anti-terrorist outlook. You berated him as a hypocrite through you knew that he had given up terrorist policies/stances/strategies, accepted the democratic and parliamentary system and contested elections accordingly.

(ii) Let's take the case of St. Paul. As you must know, St. Paul, as Saul of Tarsus earlier, was one of the most virulent and violent opponents of Christianity, breathing fire and brimstone, death and destruction on its followers and the Christian religion. After seeing a vision, he became one of the foremost of Christian missionaries, writing and preaching the Christian faith all over the world. And even today he is highly esteemed all over the world. Even today he is highly venerated and churches, Christian schools, Organisations, etc are named after him.

So in the context of your condemning Mr. Wimal Weerawansa as having had the 'gall' to speak against terrorism in 'pious hypocrisy', because of his once terroristic politics and despite WW having shed his admittedly once violent and anti-democratic past as a then member of the then JVP and since embracing democracy and the democratic system, would you say that St. Paul too had the 'gall' to speak and preach Christianity in 'pious' hypocrisy?





Chinese ask CEB to do 30-day test run on Norochcholai Phase II

January 16, 2014, 10:28 pm

by Ifham Nizam

The China Machinery Engineering Corporation (CMEC) had asked the Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) to go for a 'reliability test' of the Second Phase of the first coal fired plant now nearing completion at Norochcholai, a highly placed official said.

However, local engineers have said they won't pander to the whims and fancies of the Chinese builder and all tests must be completed.

About 90 per cent of their work has been completed but they are unable to give an exact time frame for commissioning of the plant, they have said.

Meanwhile, a CMEC official confirmed that they had asked the CEB to go for the 'reliability test' by next week as the contractor requirement was to run it for 30 days.

However, a senior engineer told The Island that they would not repeat the same mistake as they had done as regards the first phase plant.

Meanwhile, the Chinese are not in favour of the move to bring in any outside experts to attend to the technical problem in the condenser at Norochcholai. Earlier there were plans to bring down Indians to use Eddy Current technology to detect the problem, by yesterday noon three separate Chinese teams on Eddy Current, leak detection and machine maintenance were at hand.

Some engineers, however, said that a team of five technical experts from India was also expected. "This is nothing to do with countries but an expert firm has assigned Indians," he added.





Sri Lanka women's cricket team in India

January 16, 2014, 10:59 pm

The Sri Lanka women's cricket team left for India for a tour which began January 15 and ends on Jan. 29. They will play three ODIs and three T20 matches. Pictured is the team at SLC headquarters before leaving Sri Lanka.









While Dehiwala animals starve; excess fodder for Pinnawala jumbos

January 16, 2014, 10:40 pm

By Ifham Nizam

While most animals at the National Zoological Gardens in Dehiwela are literally starving, there is an excess of fodder at the Pinnawala Elephant Orphanage run by the same board of management, according to insiders.

Botanical Gardens and Public Recreation Ministry Additional Secretary (Technical) Ananda Wijesooriya who is the former Wildlife Department Director General made inquiries and found that coconut leaves, jak leaves and other foliage for 80 elephants there had been overestimated.

Wijesooriya said that they had prepared estimates at the rate 40 kilos per day for an elephant, however, later they found that a medium sized animal consumed between 20 to 25 kilos while smaller animals consumed between 15 and 20 kilos.

About 110 people are employed to care for the herd. More than 14,000 kilos of food are needed every day.

Set up in 1975, the elephant orphanage has become one of the main tourist attractions.

Pinnawala, 80 Km northeast of Colombo, has the biggest herd of captive elephants in the world. Among the elephants is one that lost a foot when it stepped on a landmine during the war. Another is blind and is totally reliant on humans for survival.

Wijesooriya said that plans were underway to take up shortcomings at the National Zoo when the Ministry Secretary Dr. Wille Gamage returned next week from an overseas trip.





Dutch-Sri Lankan business wins the Embassy Award

The Dutch Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, Ms. LiliannePloumen, presented the prestigious Embassy Award to the Dutch-Sri Lankan company 'Van der Knaap-Growrite substrates' at a large network reception in Ede, the Netherlands.

Each year in January, the Dutch ambassadors from around the world present an award to an outstanding Dutch company in a foreign country. This year the Netherlands embassy in Sri Lanka nominated Growrite Substrates, the Sri Lankan subsidiary of the Van der Knaap Group, for this Embassy Award. Of the 54 applications that were received, the company Van der Knaap-Growrite substrates was among the final three short-listed candidates. The other two nominated Dutch companies are active in Canada and Kenya.

Van der Knaap started buying coco peat bulk material in Sri Lanka in 1995 and established a company in 1997. A production facility which is fully equipped for the production of high quality coco peat products was built. Under the name Growrite Substrates (PVT) Ltd. this plant produces coco products such as coco slabs, discs, propagation cubes and home packs. Instead of supplying raw materials, ready to use products are sold and shipped directly to the clients. The products produced by Growrite Sri Lanka are made from coco peat, which is organic and recyclable material which is environmentally friendly.

In Sri Lanka, Growrite runs a very successful business operation and the company provides direct employment to 800 persons and indirectly to approximately 3200. The cooperation in Sri Lanka resulted in the establishment of production facilities in Thailand, Dominican Republic and India. Growrite was predominantly awarded with the Embassy Award because of the longstanding relationship between the Dutch and Sri Lankan company and the numerous CSR (corporate social responsibility) initiatives of Growrite Substrates. Most of these projects are geared towards children, health care, emancipation of women, education and housing. The Dutch Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, Ms. Lilianne Ploumen, is a staunch advocate of corporate social responsibility.





Geo-engineering in trouble

January 16, 2014, 8:24 pm

By Gwynne Dyer

But the Reading University scientists have discovered a hitherto unsuspected side-effect of this kind of geo-engineering. The sulphur dioxide particles don't just reflect back a portion of the incoming sunlight from above. They also reflect a portion of the long-wave radiation (heat) coming back up from the surface, and that heats the top of the troposphere.

The troposphere is the lower part of the atmosphere, where all the weather happens. If you heat the top of the troposphere, you reduce the temperature difference between there and the surface, so the tropical overturning circulation weakens. That means less water vapour is carried up, and less rain falls back down. Result: drought and famine.

Bad news on the climate front. It was already clear that we are very likely to break through all the "do not exceed" limits and go into runaway warming later this century, because greenhouse emissions have not dropped, are not dropping, and probably will not drop. We did have a fall-back position, which was to counter the warming by geo-engineering – but now the leading technique for geo-engineering also looks like it will not work.

In a paper published this month in "Environmental Research Letters", three researchers at Reading University in England have shown that trying to cool the planet by putting large amounts of sulphur dioxide into the stratosphere would lead to a 30 percent decline in rainfall in most of the tropics. That would mean permanent drought conditions in countries like Indonesia, and millions would starve.

Starvation is the main impact that higher average global temperatures will have on human beings, as they will cause a big loss in food production, particularly in the tropics and sub-tropics. But the standard assumption was that there would still be as much rain in the tropics as before. Maybe even too much rain, as the heat would mean higher rates of evaporation and more powerful tropical storms.

What Drs. Angus Ferraro, Ellie Highwood and Andrew Charlton-Perez have done is to use several climate model simulations to examine the effect of geo-engineering on the tropical overturning circulation. This circulation is largely responsible for lifting water vapour that has evaporated at the surface high enough up into the atmosphere that it turns back into water droplets and falls as rain. If the circulation gets weaker, so does the rainfall.

Putting sulphur dioxide into the stratosphere to cut the amount of incoming sunlight and reduce heating at the surface was first suggested by Paul Crutzen, a Nobel Prize-winning atmospheric chemist, in 2006. At that time, talking about geo-engineering was taboo among scientists, because they feared that if the general public knew that the heating could be held down that way, they'd stop trying to curb their greenhouse gas emissions.

Crutzen violated the taboo because countries and people were NOT cutting their emissions, and there was no reasonable prospect that they would. (This is still largely the case, by the way.) So the world definitely needed a Plan B if we did not want to see a planet that is 4 degrees C hotter (7 degrees F) by the end of the century.

Crutzen pointed out that large volcanoes, when they explode, put substantial amounts of sulphur dioxide gas into the stratosphere. That causes significant cooling at the surface for one or two years, until it all comes down again – and it does no apparent harm in the process. The last big volcano to explode, Mount Pinatubo in the Philippines in 1991, reduced the average global temperature at peak by half a degree C (one degree F).

Human beings could also put sulphur dioxide into the stratosphere (on a rather larger scale), to hold the temperature down, said Crutzen. The ice caps wouldn't melt, our agriculture would continue to get the familiar weather it needs, and we would win ourselves more time to get our emissions down. We still have to get our emissions down in the end, he stressed, but it would be better not to have a global calamity on the way from here to there.

There was so much outrage at Crutzen's suggestion that he had a nervous breakdown, but then lots of other scientists came out of hiding to admit that they also thought the human race needed a fall-back position. Various other proposals for holding the temperature down were put on the table, and by now there are dozens of them, but the idea of putting sulphur dioxide in the stratosphere still led the field. Until now.

But the Reading University scientists have discovered a hitherto unsuspected side-effect of this kind of geo-engineering. The sulphur dioxide particles don't just reflect back a portion of the incoming sunlight from above. They also reflect a portion of the long-wave radiation (heat) coming back up from the surface, and that heats the top of the troposphere.

The troposphere is the lower part of the atmosphere, where all the weather happens. If you heat the top of the troposphere, you reduce the temperature difference between there and the surface, so the tropical overturning circulation weakens. That means less water vapour is carried up, and less rain falls back down. Result: drought and famine.

This is exactly the kind of scientific investigation that Crutzen wanted. He understood clearly that we were venturing into dangerous territory when we start intervening in a system as complex as the climate, and he stressed that what was needed was lots more research before we have to gamble on geo-engineering to halt an imminent disaster. But it's a very discouraging conclusion.

The sulphur dioxide option was the cheapest and seemingly the best understood option for holding the temperature down. A great many people were glad that it was there, as a kind of safety net if we really don't get our act together in time to halt the warming by less intrusive means. Now there's no safety net.





Colombo, Sri Lanka, January 16, 2014—IFC, a member of the World Bank Group has partnered with Sri Lanka's Joint Apparel Association Forum (JAAF) to promote energy conservation in the apparel sector that can reduce operating costs, increase profits, and reduce greenhouse-gas emissions.

A recent investment-grade energy audit of seven apparel factories projected an electricity savings potential of 10 to 50 percent if conservation methods are adopted. Additionally, if all identified energy conservation measures are implemented by the audited factories, carbon dioxide emissions can be reduced by approximately 16 percent annually.

"Simple changes, including the use of energy efficient lights, air conditioners, and equipment will help make all the difference in reducing operating costs," said Tuli Cooray, JAAF's Secretary General. "Other measures like improvements to existing equipment will also boost energy efficiency."

The audit also highlighted the benefits of using renewable energy applications like biomass and rooftop solar systems.

The apparel sector is one of Sri Lanka's largest foreign exchange earners and biggest industrial employment generators. However energy costs form a significant portion of total operating costs. On average, energy costs could constitute up to 15 percent of a factory's total operating costs.

"Increases in the cost of electricity and a heavy dependency on imported fuels such as diesel and kerosene directly affect the competitiveness of Sri Lanka's apparel sector," said Adam Sack, IFC Country Manager for Sri Lanka and Maldives.

Sri Lanka is a priority country for IFC. A committed portfolio of over $280 million in Sri Lanka covers projects across a range of sectors, including infrastructure, tourism, renewable energy, finance, and health care. IFC also provides advisory services to promote sustainable growth among small and medium enterprises by facilitating access to finance, and by offering capacity-building and training opportunities.





Sri Lanka battle on tricky surface

January 16, 2014, 10:55 pm

by Special Correspondent in Sharjah

Mahela Jayawardene played Pakistan's spinners well before falling for 47. Here he is seen sweeping Saeed Ajmal to the boundary.

The skills of batsmen were tested by a tricky Sharjah surface as the Sri Lankans battled hard to remain on top after electing to bat first on the opening day of the third and final Test against Pakistan here. The tourists searching for their first Test series win away from home since 2000 (sans Bangladesh and Zimbabwe) finished on 220 for five and will be looking up to Angelo Mathews and Prasanna Jayawardene to extend their sixth wicket stand - now worth 54 runs. A first innings total of 300 could prove extremely vital for the Sri Lankans.

As expected, Pakistan's spinners played a major role accounting for three of the five wickets to fall. Left-arm spinner Abdur Rehman and off-spinner Saeed Ajmal bowled 53 overs between them and kept a check on the batsmen.

Star batsman Kumar Sangakkara top scored with 52 runs and was dismissed before tea when he flicked a harmless Junaid Khan delivery straight to mid-wicket.

Ajmal, who had looked flat in the first two Tests without much success provided Pakistan a crucial breakthrough after tea when he had Mahela Jayawardene caught at short-leg by Azhar Ali. The former captain was 13 runs short of the 11,000 run mark. Pakistan were buoyed by Mahela's dismissal, the opposition's best player of spin bowling. He had cleared both spinners over the rope for six – Rehman was hit over his head for a straight six while Ajmal was whacked over the square leg boundary.

Ajmal also accounted for Dinesh Chandimal, who failed to read the doosra and ended up offering an easy catch to the mid-on fielder.

The reviews didn't go Pakistan's way and Mathews and wicketkeeper Prasanna Jayawardene fought back after Sri Lanka were reduced to 166 for five. Mathews was unbeaten on 24 having faced 90 deliveries while Prasanna was 28 not out off 60 balls.

Sri Lanka's run rate wasn't spectacular as they scored below 2.5 runs an over. But on a tricky surface patience was required in abundance against two quality spinners.

Sri Lanka left out Nuwan Pradeep and gave off-spinner Dilruwan Perera his Test debut while Pakistan did three changes. Rehman, Azhar Ali and Mohammad Talha were brought in for Bilawal Bhatti, Mohammad Hafeez and Rahat Ali.

The first Test in Abu Dhabi was drawn while Sri Lanka won the second Test by nine wickets, their first Test win away from home since beating South Africa in Durban in 2011.





NDB promotes livelihood development in the Cinnamon sector

January 16, 2014, 8:00 pm

NDBrecently set the foundation to a 'grow cinnamon' campaign through promoting of microfinance facilities to home growers. This programme was inaugurated at a ceremony held in Matara recently, with the disbursement of'DiviAruna'microfinance facilities to over eighty selected growers in the area. The micro loan facilities funded under concessionary rates is expected to encourage the small scale growers to remain in the industry. Speaking at the ceremony, Mr.I.KRuwansiri of the Cinnamon Research Institute of Sri Lanka, shared valuable technical insight on effective and efficient methods of Cinnamon cultivation for the benefit of the small scale growers that attended the event.

Promoting the national cause of livelihood development at grass root level through sustainable financial inclusion has always been a focal area for NDB. The Bank has pioneered many initiatives in this regard truly fulfilling its commitment towards this worthy national cause.With the socio-economic boom subsequent to the cessation of a 30 year civil war, the bank has intensified its growth strategies towards the rural sector which essentially forms the backbone of the country's economy. Considering that over 80% of Sri Lanka's population consists of rural population, NDB's focus and emphasis on the rural economies is both vital and timely.

In continuance of its objectives for financial inclusion, the revolutionary loan scheme titled 'DiviAruna' (awakening of lives) was commenced in 2010, aimed at developing livelihood for prospective entrepreneurs not within the mainstream of banking. The philosophy for introducing this scheme underlies the thinking that; in the economic resurgence that will generate many growth opportunities - where industries like fisheries, agriculture and infrastructure development are poised to take off, marginalized individuals in the rural sector may lose out, if not given a helping hand at inception.

The primary feature of NDBDiviAruna scheme is that no collateral is taken as security for the loans. Loan approval is primarily based on the Bank's evaluation of the applicant's vocation and its confidence in the success of the enterprise.NDBDiviArunaloan scheme also aims to promote a savings culture while including the marginalized and the overlooked into the main banking stream. Supplementing the loan scheme therefore, , is an investment based savings scheme where it is mandatory for the borrowers to contribute an additional agreed amount every month towards a savings build up which could be used as collateral for future expansion of business activity.

Although the project initially commenced in the North and East the scheme now extends to the South as well. To date, NDB has financed projects across a gamut of industries, supporting over 600 families through its DiviAruna loan scheme. Today, DiviArunahas evolved as an integral part of NDB's business proposition. It is now being further expanded and streamlined to include targeted market segments such as the small scale agriculturists and dairy farmers who already maintain supplier linkages with Industry Leaders, registered community based organizations alreadyfunctioning at grass root level and new organizations formed under the supervision and guidance of NDB. The expanded product coverage would include micro leasing, micro livelihood loans and financing of community based organizations and/or their members on a selective basis in addition to empowerment and capacity building programs.





'CHOGM boosted SL's global business opportunities'

Sri Lanka Chamber of Small & Medium Industries president:

January 16, 2014, 7:30 pm

By Lynn Ockersz

'Sri Lanka's international business prospects have brightened tremendously after the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM) held in this country late last year. The meeting helped to popularize Sri Lanka among Commonwealth countries as a highly promising business destination, president, Sri Lanka Chamber of Small & Medium Industries Mohideen Cader said.

'Following the international exposure this country received at CHOGM, Sri Lanka is being regarded among Commonwealth government and business circles as a potential supplier of goods and services to the world. We are coming back to Sri Lanka, not only because of its natural beauty but also on account of the potential it has for viable businesses, many of these visitors said on the eve of their departure back home, Cader told The Island Financial Review in an exclusive interview.

'After CHOGM there have been numerous inquiries from countries around the world with regard to business collaborations and the like with us. Countries, such as, Australia, South Africa, Tanzania, Vietnam and Japan have sounded us out on the possibility of exchanging with us visits by business delegations. We are in the process of working out arrangements for these interactions. We are also in the process of sounding out Bangladesh with regard to expanding business contacts, Cader said.

'Most of the world did not know the promise Sri Lanka holds in business and other areas of legitimate interest on account of the 30 year war in this country and its blighting impact. There was also the negative image which was projected about this country by sections which were out to wreck our good prospects. But all this changed with CHOGM. The world came to Sri Lanka and saw for itself that Sri Lanka is a land of promise with whom good business could be done, besides other forms of beneficial interaction, Cader explained.

Referring to the current prospects of the SME sector, Cader said that over the past three years, the government has recognized this category of businesses as vital and has made provision for their growth, in the relevant budgets. 'But what has been given is still not enough. Two budgets ago, a $ 5 million funding facility was granted us, specifically for the SME sector. But because of the problems faced by the SME sector then, it was absorbed in a matter of months. But it is heartening to see now that some big banks and the Development Banks are focusing on the SME sector, Cader said.

'Our own Chamber has entered into an MOU with Union Bank. This is focused on the SME sector through its formation of SME clubs. The bank has identified all its small and medium enterprise customers, and grouped them into clubs, he explained. 'And they are affiliating them through bank sponsorship with our Chamber. That way we are taking the Chamber out of the provinces into the districts and are bringing in new members from those areas. What we hope to do is to facilitate these members to network with the bigger companies who are members of our Chamber and together with other companies in our country and exporters, facilitate the growth of the SMEs.'





Lankan juniors' final standings announced

ITF U-14 Tennis in Thailand

January 16, 2014, 10:58 pm

by Revata S. Silva

The final standings of the six Sri Lankan junior players who took part in the International Tennis Federation (ITF) Asia 14-&-Under Development Championships 2014 Div. 2 Tour-1 were announced on Wednesday. The tournament was held from January 8 to 16 in Bangkok, Thailand.

In the girls' segment, Sri Lanka's Janali Manamperi was placed 6th while the other two Lankan lasses, Prabuddhi Perera and Piyumi Wickremasinghe were placed 6th and 7th, the Sri Lanka Tennis Association sources said.

In the boys' segment, Sri Lanka's Selvaratnarajah Innthujan, who was seeded No. 6, ended up in the 7th place while the other two, Yasith Rathnayake and Nuwantha Dissanyake were placed 12th and 18th respectively.

Sri Lanka contingent's coach on tour was former Davis Cup player Sankha Atukorale.





Suspects face arrest over attacks on churches

January 16, 2014, 10:24 pm

by Lal Gunesekera

Twenty four suspects have been identified in the attack on two churches at Hikkaduwa on Sunday (12) with the Galle Additional Magistrate Gunendra Marasinghe ordering the Police to arrest them yesterday (16).

The police were instructed to obtain unedited video footage of the incident from the media to assist in the investigations.

A police spokesman said that eight Buddhist monks belonging to the Hela Bodu Pawura, too, had been identified as members of the mob that attacked the two churches of the Assembly of God (AOG) and Calvary Free Church.









LTTE Political Wing was meant to infiltrate military-held areas; Sasitharans no saints -MOD

January 16, 2014, 10:25 pm

by Shamindra Ferdinando

The Defence Ministry yesterday said that Northern Provincial Council member Ananthi Sasitharan was under investigation, though she had publicly distanced herself from the LTTE fighting cadre.

A senior Defence Ministry spokesman said that the ongoing inquiry was meant to establish her role during the conflict as well as the post-war era. The Defence Ministry was responding to criticism of its decision to weigh the need to rehabilitate Ms. Sasitharan.

During the conflict Ananthi Sasitharan worked at the Kilinochchi Divisional secretariat.

Ms Sasitharan successfully contested the first Northern Provincial Council polls last September. Representing the Illankai Tamil Arasu Kadchi (ITAK) she polled the second highest preferential votes in the Northern Province comprising the administrative districts of Jaffna, Vavuniya, Mannar, Kilinochchi and Mullaitivu.

Asked whether authorities had specific information regarding Ms. Sasitharan's involvement in terrorism, the official pointed out that an attempt was being made to sanitize her on the basis that her husband, Velayutham Sasitharan alias Elilan functioned as the political wing leader of the Trincomalee district.

The Defence Ministry alleged that the LTTE created a political wing especially to infiltrate territory in Northern and Eastern Provinces, during the Norwegian arranged Ceasefire Agreement (CFA) in early 2002. The CFA stipulated that LTTE could establish political offices in areas under the government control, the ministry said, adding that the Sasitharans could have taken advantage of the CFA on many occasions.

Sri Lanka wouldn't give special status to those terrorists masquerading as political activists, the Defence Ministry insisted. Referring to the killing of LTTE political wing leader S. P. Thamilselvan in early November 2007, the ministry stressed that the former Jaffna commander was targeted as he was a member of a terrorist outfit.

In fact, a US military team that examined the ground situation in late 2002 asserted that the LTTE was exploiting the CFA to its advantage. The team from Pacific Command alleged that: "Since the signing the CFA with the government of Sri Lanka, the LTTE has increased political presence within military controlled territory and actively repositioned, re-equipped and re-trained combat forces. As a result of these activities, the LTTE has improved its ability to affect civilian popular opinion, interdict military lines of communications and seize control of additional territory."

The ministry said that those who had visited Sri Lanka to examine the ground situation ended up listening to either former terrorists or the Tamil National Alliance (TNA) which endorsed the LTTE as the sole representative of Tamil speaking people leading to the outbreak of eelam war IV.





Sound pollution, horns, law and police – a reply

January 16, 2014, 8:07 pm

I fully agree with the opinion expressed by my good friend Tissa Jayaweera in The Island of Jan. 16 on sound pollution and the inaction of Central Environmental Authority (CEA) and the crippled long arm of the law.

I have repeatedly highlighted another form of sound pollution in the opinion columns of The Island, even written many letters and sent faxes to the area police and also the Senior Superintendent of Police in charge of the pollution prevention division regarding the sound pollution caused by three wheelers selling bread etc; those contraptions wake up people very early in the morning and disturb schoolchildren doing their home work.

During an early morning walk along the Diyawanna Lake walking path, I met the minister In charge of environment and brought the matter to his notice. He said that the three wheelers were selling bread near his residence as well and they were a nuisance but he was unable to do anything. This is exactly what the Chairman CEA had told me over the phone earlier.

I will financially back any environmental NGO ready to institute legal action against the law enforcement authorities who have failed to enforce the law against those who cause sound pollution.





JVP up and running

January 16, 2014, 10:26 pm

by Dasun Edirisinghe

The JVP would launch its Western and Southern Provincial Council election campaign under the theme 'Janatha Handa Dinawamu' (Make voice of the people victorious), JVP Propaganda Secretary Vijitha Herath said yesterday.

He said that they already named former parliamentarian K. D. Lalkantha and former councillor Nalin Hewage as leaders for the Western and Southern Provinces respectively for the poll.

The Gampaha District MP said that former MPs Jinadasa Kithulegoda and Nihal Galappaththi would contest the Southern Provincial Council poll from Matara and Hambantota Districts respectively as District leaders.

Former Councilor Dr. Nalinda Jayatissa would lead the Kalutara District, while the Gampaha District JVP team would be led by General Secretary of Ceylon Teachers Service Union Mahinda Jayasinghe.

"We have already launched our campaign at the grassroots level," MP Herath said, adding that mass rallies would commence after handing over of nominations.

The party also appointed Gampaha District MP Vijitha Herath, Colombo District MP Sunil Handunnetti, former MPs Bimal Rathnayake and Ramalingam Chandrasekar as members of its nomination committee yesterday.





Hoarded milk powder seized

One thousand two hundred packets of powdered milk were seized by the Consumer Affairs Authority (CAA) yesterday (16) from a wholesale outlet in Averiwatte, Katunayake.

Nipun Ekanayake, Media Secretary to the Minister of Cooperatives and Internal Trade Johnston Fernando told The Island wholesalers and retailers were creating an artificial shortage in the market expecting the CAA to increase prices, but they had not yet taken a final decision in that regard.

The importers of milk powder have requested an increase of Rs. 250 for one kilo packet.





Magistrate grants bail to hatchery owner, assistant

* Turtle mystery refuses to go away

January 16, 2014, 9:24 pm

By Madura Ranwala

Balapitiya magistrate yesterday released the owner of the private hatchery at Kosgoda, Chandrasiri Abrew arrested by the police for making a false complaint that he lost a white turtle worth millions and for violating fauna and flora Ordinance, on cash bail of Rs. 15,000 and two sureties of one million rupees and 500,000 rupees.

The Magistrate ordered the police to obtain the assistance of Wildlife officers to hand over the four white turtles in the care of Chandrasiri to Dehiwala Zoo.

An assistant of Chandrasiri arrested for the same offences by the police along with Chandrasiri on Wednesday too was released on Rs. 500,000 bail for each offence.

The case was postponed to February 19.

Acting on a tip-off, Matara Divisional Crime Detection Bureau found a white turtle weighing 5.5 kilos on Tuesday, at Chandarasiri's daughter's house at Ambalngoda.

However, immediately after the recovery of the turtle from Chandrasiri's daughter's house and after popular singer Amal Perera identified the turtle as the one that he wanted to buy for his friend in the Maldives, Chandarasiri denied to the media that the turtle found in his daughter's house was the one that the singer wanted to buy.





'Let's not cross the IMBL to fish in each sother's waters,' say Lankan fishermen

January 16, 2014, 9:16 pm

BY S VENKAT NARAYAN Our Special Correspondent

NEW DELHI, January 16: Representatives of Sri Lankan fishermen today accused Tamil Nadu fishermen of straying into Sri Lankan waters depleting marine resources. Speaking to reporters here, they sought restrictions on fishermen of both countries from crossing the International Maritime Boundary Line (IMBL) into each other's country for fishing.

"Both sides must stop straying into other countries. Indian fishermen should not be allowed to enter our waters, while the Sri Lankan fishermen must not stray into Indian waters for fishing," said Albert Justine Soysa, a leader of Sri Lankan fishermen.

"We are of the view that this will resolve the existing problems over fishing between the two neighbouring countries," he added.

The Lankan fishermen delegation are visiting India to hold talks with Indian authorities on crucial issues affecting fisheries.

Soysa also dismissed reports of Tamil Nadu fishermen being arrested when they are fishing within Indian waters.

Stressing that the Lankan navy does not detain fishermen beyond its borders, he alleged that Indian fishermen indulge in fishing deep inside the Lankan territories.

"The problem will not arise if Tamil Nadu fishermen are engaged in fishing near Katchatheevu. But, they navigate till Mullaitheevu, which is located over 100 km away from the Indian borders. This is what is creating problems," he explained.

The fishermen further charged that marine resources in Sri Lankan waters were affected due to the fishing methods adopted by the Indian fishermen.

Naganathy Ponnambalam, another fishermen's leader from the Jaffna Province, raised concern over the use of mechanised boats by the Indians. "The use of mechanised boats, which is a threat for marine resources, is not only dangerous for Indian fishermen, but also to the fishing community in Sri Lanka and East Asia," he warned.





IGP N. K. Illangakoon yesterday gave away cash rewards amounting to Rs. 7,476, 500 among police officers and men for good performances. Among the recipients of cash prizes was Police Constable (40802) J. M. W. R. Bandara for arresting a suspect wanted in connection with a Rs. 800,000 robbery from a house at No: 18/04, De Saram Road, Mount Lavinia in December, 2012 (Pic by Saman Ranaweera)





The government having internationalised internal issues was blaming everyone except itself, the UNP said yesterday.

Senior Vice President of the UNP, Lakshman Kirielle MP addressing a press conference in Colombo, said it was the Rajapaksa regime that had given written assurances to the United Nations Human Rights Commission (UNHRC), pledging to implement as a matter of priority the key recommendations of its very own Lessons Learnt and Reconciliation Commission including accountability issues pertaining to the war, the rule of law and ensuring media freedom.

With around two months to go for the annual UNHRC sessions in Geneva and the threat of punitive resolutions against the government looming large, it had begun criticising all and sundry including the Opposition for the mess it had created for itself, he noted.

An attempt was being made to show that the UK and US was acting against the Sri Lanka, when it was the Rajapaksa regime that was being targeted, the MP said, adding that such slogans would assist in obtaining votes at the next Western and Southern provincial Council Polls, but would backfire at international fora.

MP Kirielle recalled that the UNHRC had already adopted two critical resolutions against Sri Lanka and if in March a third one was passed, it would lead to severe sanctions on the people and they would have no impact on the rulers responsible for bungling on the diplomatic front. Appealing to the government to come to its senses and engage the global community wisely without playing one country against the other, Kirielle warned that at the rate it was losing its few friends, the future looked very bleak.

The Rajapaksa regime was on a very bad wicket and time was running out fast, he said, noting that the tactics adopted to bluff the people with bogus election promises would certainly not work at the United Nations.





CSE closes strongly with indices up & Rs. 1.4 bn. turnover

January 16, 2014, 7:33 pm

The Colombo bourse yesterday closed strongly on a turnover of Rs.1.87 billion, up from Monday's Rs.1.37 billion, with the All Share Price Index up 50.59 points (0.38%) and S&P SL20 up 38.98 points (1.15%) with 166 gainers way ahead of 63 losers while 92 counters closed flat.

"There was quite a jump in volume and the indices too moved up nicely with JKH providing much of the momentum closing Rs.9.10 up at Rs.240.10", a broker said.

Block trades in HNB and Chevron contributed Rs.754.4 million to the day's turnover with six crossings in HNB of nearly 3.3 million shares and two crossings of Chevron of 0.9 million shares.

The bulk of the HNB crossings totaling 0.4 million shares were done at Rs.154 while the balance was done at Rs.155 and Rs.155.10.

Brokers and analysts said that there was foreign buying on HNB with a big block owned by the Browns Group sold by LOLC, now controlling Browns.

JKH was the top turnover generator with over 0.6 million shares done on the floor between Rs.231 and Rs.244.90 closing Rs.9.10 up at Rs.240.20 contributing Rs.147.1 million to the day's business volumes. JKH warrants W0023 also closed Rs.1.90 up at Rs.91.90 on nearly 0.4 million traded.

There was considerable retail activity in The Finance, both voting and non-voting, Touchwood, Access Engineering and Blue Diamonds, brokers said.

The Finance (non-voting) saw over 9.5 million shares traded between Rs.7.80 and Rs.9.60 closing 40 cents up at Rs.8.60 contributing Rs.85.2 million to turnover while the voting share, with over 1.8 million traded between Rs.13.80 and Rs.15.40 closed 90 cents up at Rs.14.70 contributing Rs.26.9 million to turnover.

Sampath Bank closed Rs.4.30 up at Rs.180.50 on over 0.3 million shares, LIOC closed 60 cents up Rs.39.30 on 0.8 million shares and Nestle closed Rs.29.90 up at Rs.2,145 on 11,648 shares.

Touchwood closed 80 cents up at Rs.3.40 on 17.6 million shares, Access 20 cents up at Rs.22 on over 1.8 million shares and Blue Diamonds (voting) 20 cents up at Rs.3.70 on nearly 0.7 million shares.

Brokers said that activity on The Finance particularly, Touchwood and Blue Diamonds was mostly speculative.





'Corruption is worse than prostitution'

January 16, 2014, 8:09 pm

We appreciate the concern shown by our patriotic citizens in their frustration the way the our anti-corruption body is working. A large number of them have already 'lost trust' in it. Even the general public has lost its confidence in it.It is worth recalling here what Albert Einstein once said on this subject of corruption: 'The world will not be destroyed by those who do evil, but by those who watch them without doing anything'. It is a well known fact that no country is absolutely free from corruption but the Berlin based The Transparency International has given some ranking by selecting the best five and the worst five. The countries which fall in the best-five-group are; New Zealand, Denmark, Singapore, Sweden and Switzerland and those with the worst grading and at the bottom are: Somalia, Afghanistan, Myanmar, Sudan and Iraq. Sadly, we note that the country which led the top five before, Finland, is out of that five! Corruption is regarded as deadlier than dengue or drug addiction. Dengue has cure and there is rehabilitation for drug addicts but for one who is hooked on to corruption has no way out. The renowned Austrian journalist, Karl Kraus said 'Corruption is worse than prostitution. The latter might endanger the morals of an individual, the former invariably endangers the morals of the entire country'.





Colombo Central UPFA tussles heating up

January 16, 2014, 9:17 pm

By Maheesha Mudugamuwa

In the wake of the appointment of Hirunika Premachandra as the SLFP organiser for Colombo Central, SLFP co-organiser for the same electorate Investment Promotion Deputy Minister Faizer Mustapha yesterday said that they along with Senior Minister A.H.M Fawzie would work together as co-organisers during the forthcoming Western Provincial Council election.

Addressing the media in Colombo, Mustapha said that there was no SLFP chief organiser for Colombo Central, clearly rejecting Minister Fowzie's claim to be the chief organiser. "I warmly welcome the president's move to appoint Hirunika as an SLFP co-organiser and I hope she also will join with us to ensure victory for the UPFA," Mustapha said. "We all are co-organisers, Hirunika's appointment will fill the vacuum of the Colombo Central and Colombo City which is being experienced for years and she will attract young votes," he said.

"Majority of people in Colombo Central were doing politics with me. Eleven out of 16 councilors are with me," he said.





Guitar Fest 2014

January 16, 2014, 7:38 pm

Colombo Guitar Fest 2014 which is organized by the Guitar Association of Sri Lanka will be held for the fourth consecutive time in "Nava Ranga Hala" Royal College, Colombo on 25th January 2014 from 6.00 p.m onwards. Apart from the main concert in Colombo there will be another 02 concerts at E. O. E. Pereira Theatre, University of Peradeniya and 'Sudasuna' Chillaw on 26th January and 27th January 2014 respectively. All leading guitarists in Sri Lanka will participate for the "Guitar Fest 2014". The special feature will be the participation of Nguyen Van Phuc, a world famous music instructor & Master class guitarist from Vietnam.

Mohamed Iqbal, Secretary of the Guitar Association of Sri Lanka - speaking at the launch, stated that concert is free of charge to the public. As such young people who love guitar music could come and see how different guitar styles are performed. He also stated all leading guitarists participated to this concert voluntarily. The Guitar Festival will get all types of guitar playing in Sri Lanka to perform on one stage. Guitarists of all nationalities & styles will be salient feature in "Guitar Fest 2014"

Amaranth Ranathunga, a senior guitarist stated that Colombo Guitar Fest 2014 is only event of its kind in South Asia. He also stated that this festival features nearly forty guitarists. They performed classical, flamenco, Hawaiian, jazz, rock and heavy metal music using the guitars.













Kirielle wanted me to be on

UNP nomination board – Sajith

'Ranil understood my position'

January 16, 2014, 12:00 pm

by Zacki Jabbar

Sajith Premadasa, MP said yesterday that UNP National Leader Ranil Wickremesinghe had accepted his explanation for not wanting to serve on the Nomination Board for the next Southern and Western Provincial Council Elections, but it was Lakshman Kiriella who had insisted that he be included.

Premadasa told The Island that he had met Wickremesinghe seven days back and set out the reasons for his decision to refrain from serving on the Nomination Board (NB). "The leader accepted my explanation and conveyed my request to the Leadership Council (LC).When I heard that the LC had nevertheless appointed me to the NB, I inquired from Tissa Attanayake, who said that it was Lakshman Kiriella, who had insisted on my inclusion. If there was no election in my electorate, I would have served on the NB. Selecting candidates for two provinces was a huge task and not a joke."

Asked, if Thalatha Athukorale who along with him had declined a position on the LC, would take up her appointment to the NB, he replied "I should think so, because there is no election in her electorate."

When referred to allegations that he was not willing to accept responsibility, Premadasa said he was playing his part at grassroots level at Tissamaharama, in preparation for the next Southern Provincial Council Polls. "I will be campaigning in 576 Grama Sevaka Divisions, which comprises 1,400 villages. I plan to visit each village twice before the campaign ends. I am up against the Rajapaksas and it is no easy task considering the power they wielded. I am not like the cry babies who go to Ranil and say do not appoint Sajith as Deputy Leader."

Asked he would be involved in the NB when it came to selecting candidates for Hambantota, he said that the District had four organisers including him. "I will be nominating five members from Tissamaharama, while the Tangalle, Beliatta and Mulikirigala Organisers would propose a total of 10 candidates."





ExpoFreight (EFL), Sri Lankarecently received the prestigious ISO 9001:2008 Quality Management Systems certificationfrom SGS United Kingdom. The certification covers all the International transportation and logistics services provided by EFL that include sea, air and land transportation, customs house brokerage and customs bonded warehousing. SGS is the world's leading and the most widely accredited certification body with over 40 ISO 9001 accreditations held inmore than 40 countries.

Commenting on the certification CEO - Expo Freight (EFL), Sri Lanka Mr. Jagath Pathirane said, "Asthe leading Freight Forwarder in Sri Lanka we continue to raise the industry bar with our commitment to quality and customer satisfaction. Our quest is to add value to all the inputs that we have in our business by simplifyingwhat is complex to our customers,whilst fostering innovations. Our main objective in conforming to ISO 9001:2008 Quality Management Systems standard is to streamline our business processesto adapt to the ever-changing industry scope which is getting complex and demanding. We constantly strive for excellence and the disciplines that ISO has brought about to help us to do so byenabling us to increase performance by streamlined processes and stringent monitoring of them by Key Performance Indicators (KPIs), identification of dynamic stakeholder requirements, management of risks and contingencies, and most importantly focus attention to continuous improvements and sustainability"

The ISO 9001:2008 is based on eight quality management principles; customer focus, leadership, involvement of people, process approach, system approach to management, continual improvement, fact-based decision making and mutually beneficial supplier relationships, which are used as a framework to guide organizations towards improved performance. To qualify for the certification an organization has to successfully demonstrate its commitment to service quality, continual improvement, and customer satisfaction andadherence to international quality management standards.

"Standardization of our processes and systems has been a key focus area within our strategy to achieve excellence. Continuous improvement & business process re-engineering will challenge what is considered and established as standard to foster innovation. This has contributed significantly to our market-leading performanceand with ISO certification we have proven that not only quantity or volume that matters but quality" added Pathirane.

As one of the largest freight forwarders in the Asian sub-continent and the sub-Saharan region of Africa, providing integrated, supply chain management of logistics services, Expo Freight (EFL) business operations and state-of-the-art facilities are run by a professional and skilled workforce who are dedicated and experienced. Having established itself as a premier provider of services to the fashion industry, EFL has a total of 17 own operations in Africa, the Middle East and Asia and represents multiple agents in the Indian sub-continent with 45 offices.





Judiciary, a bulwark against executive excesses

January 16, 2014, 8:11 pm

Speech by President of the Bar Association of Sri Lanka Upul Jayasuriya at the ceremonial sitting of the Supreme Court on January 16 to welcome the newly appointed Supreme Court judge Buveneke Aluvihare, PC

Your Lordship the Chief Justice and other Judges of the Supreme Court, your Lordship the Acting President of the Court of Appeal and other Judges of the Court of Appeal and other judges. As the head of the un-official Bar, I have the privilege of welcoming Your Lordship, Justice Buveneka Aluvihare, President"s Counsel as a Judge of the Supreme Court. The Bar wishes you well in fulfilling the onerous responsibilities that accompany high judicial office on the Apex Court. As Your Lordship take your seat on this court on this memorable day.

Your Lordship has done your alma mater St. Sylvester's College Kandy proud with your appointment to the Supreme Court as the first ever student from that well respected College to have ascended the Supreme Court. Your Lordship obtained your Master of Laws (LL.M) from (University of London, Queen Mary College) You functioned as a Prosecutor in the United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor, dealing with War Crimes, Crimes Against Humanity and other grave crimes said to have been committed by the Indonesian Armed forces. You functioned as an Additional Solicitor General from June 2013. Your service to the Attorney General's Department spanning over several decades in all areas has given you the wide experience required, to take up the new responsibility that has been now conferred upon you.

Your Lordship was a sought after lecturer at the Sri Lanka Law College, from 2005 until you ascended the Supreme Court. Your appointment is undoubtedly a loss to the Law College at a time when much is expected, far reaching salutary changes are being made in the field of legal education by the Council particularly with the appointment of a highly respected judge of this court as the Principal of Law College.

It is expected of every Judge anywhere that he or she discharge judicial functions as fair, balanced, strong and an impartial Judge receiving the acceptance and respect of the Bar. Judges and lawyers should always be men and women who do not compromise for their gain and who are not willing to trade their conscience and dignity, which are precious and priceless assets in the practice of the Law and the administration of Justice.

Let me quote from the iconic Lawyer, statesman Nelson Mandela who acquired global recognition as a role model for lawyers and statesman during his life time; "Our new order must therefore be based on constitutional democracy in which regardless of race, gender, religion or political opinion, the law will provide for the equal protection of all. It will be an order in which the government will be bound by a higher body of rules - an empire of laws - and will not govern at its discretion. We reject an empire of man; we require the rule of law, as opposed to what Aristotle called the "passion of men"

My Lord, the Chief Justice may I have your indulgence to also use this occasion to pay a tribute to a great judge of the Supreme Court, who retired in the past year having blazed a trail in our legal history. Justice Nimal Gamini Amaratunga, who bowed out a few months ago bequeathed an important legacy of judicial independence to his successors in office which we hope will inspire all others. I on behalf of the Bar wish him good Health and Happiness.

Let me also on behalf of the bar wish speedy recovery to another judge who stood for judicial independence, President of the court of Appeal Justice Sri Skandaraja.

As lawyers and Judges, our Profession has constantly stood firm in our determination to protect Judicial Independence and professional integrity. We have steadfastly defended our right to practice our profession with dignity and independence whilst endeavouring to protect the independence and safety of the Judiciary. These are the very basis of the highest principles on which the legal profession is founded. if we do not do so and if we do not succeed in doing so, then every person who seeks justice will be at risk.

We in this country witnessed the adoption of the 18th amendment to the Constitution which has serious implications for democratic governance. The historical 17th amendment that was assented to by the entire 225 members of Parliament created the constitutional council. When this was repealed Executive was tasked with making appointments to the apex Court. However we remember that Similar powers were vested with the executive when appointments were 1st made under the Constitution and Chief Justice Neville Samarakoon, Justice, Mark Fernando, Justice Amarasinghe and several other Judges were appointed to the Supreme Court. thereafter they functioned as courageous and independent Judges. Their names will go down in our memory lane inscribed and emblazoned for their courage in developing the Law on fundamental rights, with their courage to hold against the very executive that appointed them.

We have no doubt that Your Lordship Justice Aluvihare has the intellectual capacity, strength of character and the courage to follow that great tradition. Your Lordship shall rest assured that the Bar will be behind you in every step of this Journey at all times.

An independent, impartial, honest and competent judiciary is integral to upholding the rule of law, engendering public confidence and dispensing justice.

To secure these aims: Latimer House principles, adopted in Edinburgh 2005 by the Commonwealth should be upheld within our country Sri Lanka now holding, its Chair in office of the organization.

Permit me to quote these principles that are relevant to the Judicial Appointments.

(a) Judicial appointments should be made on the basis of clearly defined criteria and by a publicly declared process. The process should ensure equality of opportunity for all who are eligible for judicial office; appointment on merit; and that appropriate consideration is given to the need for the progressive attainment of gender equity and the removal of other historic factors of discrimination;

(b) Arrangements for appropriate security of tenure and protection of levels of remuneration must be in place;

(c) Adequate resources should be provided for the judicial system to operate effectively without any undue constraints which may hamper the independence sought;

(d) Interaction, if any, between the executive and the judiciary should not compromise judicial independence.

Judges should be subject to suspension or removal only for reasons of incapacity or misbehavior that clearly renders them unfit to discharge their duties.

We are entitled to have the confidence that these principles, that have been accepted globally, will be observed in our Country too.

At least let us look forward to a brighter future.

Due consideration should be given to career Judicial Officers who have worked hard to administer justice over their entire careers. Career Judicial Officers should and must have the assurance that they can reach the Court of Appeal and the Supreme Court during the course of their judicial career.

If these salutary rules are breached, the outcome and its impact on the rule of law would be devastating.

There should be a set of transparent criteria and a due process for the appointment and promotion of Appellate Judges which is not vested solely in the hands of the appointing authority. If this is not implemented, Public confidence in the independence and impartiality of the judiciary would then be irreparably impaired.

Judges must be given security of tenure, there must be independent procedures put in place for their appointment and removal. It is time to consider the urgent need for amendment of the provisions of the Constitution which we have seen do not conform to these standards. We refer to the provisions suggested in the ill fated 2000 Constitution.

Judges must be financially secure. At least the judges of the superior courts, who are relatively few in number, should continue to receive all the benefits that they enjoy as sitting judges until their death. The obnoxious practice of conferring privileged positions on judicial officers after retirement at the discretion of the executive should cease.

As a profession, we shall not accept any compromise in the integrity of the judiciary. It is our duty to foster and maintain the public trust in the hallowed institution that was nurtured over centuries, with dedication and sacrifice.

We have seen instances where the principle of equality before law appears to have been undermined, especially in situations involving influential persons. Public cynicism is widespread with regard to the manner in which the principle of equality has been ignored.

It is the responsibility of the judiciary and the Legal fraternity, to collectively strive to remedy this crisis of confidence, which has eroded in immeasurable manner.

This "state of lawlessness' has to be curbed and controlled by the judiciary. This is the essence of the rule of law, and it goes to the roots of constitutionalism. It is the solemn function of the judiciary to ensure that no constitutional or legal functionary or authority acts beyond the limits of its power nor that there is any abuse or misuse of power. Be it the common man, the legislator, the legislature or the executive, judicial activism should be applied with vigor and without favour. This solemn function cannot be discharged without the commitment of the legal profession.

The judiciary stands between the citizen and the State as a bulwark against executive excesses of misuse or abuse of power or the transgression of constitutional or legal limitations by the executive as well as the legislature.

Pandit Nehru, while speaking about the judges of the Supreme Court in the Constituent Assembly which framed the Indian Constitution, observed:

"It is important that these judges should be not only first-rate but should be acknowledged to be first-rate in the country and of the highest integrity.

The integrity and independence of legal systems and judicial institutions and the very law itself cannot be of concern to only lawyers and judges in Sri Lanka. Rather, it is of paramount concern of all citizens to have regard and respect for rule of law and it is the paramount duty of both the Judiciary and the Bar to guard and protect the rule of law and, as the head of the UN official-Bar, I can state with all conviction that the Bar will discharge this duty and that we are confident and trust that the Judiciary will do so too.

There are many judges who have had the will and the courage to stand up for what is right with willingness to make sacrifices. They may have sacrificed decades of impeccable professional life and well deserved and warranted hopes, for the sacred cause of Judicial independence. Permit me to say that such judges are immortal and live in the hearts of the people of the Nation forever and ever.

Let me conclude by describing the qualities of a true Judge as worded by Thomas Jefferson — author of the Declaration of Independence and the third president of the United States, and founder of the University of Virginia,

"His integrity was most pure, his justice the most inflexible I have ever known, no motives of interest or consanguinity, of friendship or hatred, being able to bias his decision. He was indeed, in every sense of the words, a wise, a good, and a great judge."

The Bar has confidence that Your Lordship will be such a Judge in this Honourable Court. On behalf of the Bar and I personally wish you well as you assume this high Office.





Cinnamon Bloglaunched!

January 16, 2014, 7:59 pm

Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts, while being trendsetters in hospitality and innovation have launched yet another value addition to their offerings, 'Cinnamon U' - a blog to provide insight on what travelers can experience in Sri Lanka. It is also an invitation for one to explore and discover the unique 'Cinnamon Experience' whenever their inner self feels like taking a dip in indulgence!

The frequent interaction and updates on a blog make it all the more exciting and Cinnamon has embedded 'Cinnamon U' in its website for constant and effective engagement with its stakeholders. This blog will target travelers planning trips to Sri Lanka generally, and young, urban travelers specifically.While bringing a teaser on what one can experience in Sri Lanka, it is also an invitation for travelers to explore and discover the unique 'Cinnamon Experience' whenever their inner self feels like taking a dip in indulgence!

Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts whilst realizing the immense power of using social media as a potent marketing tool, further enhanced its value offerings to its customers as a result of launching Cinnamon Blog. "Cinnamon U" would serve as yet another effective online marketing tool together with the many other social media tools Cinnamon uses to engage its customers, as it eliminates a lot of layers that separate Cinnamon from its target audience. The immediacy and intimacy of social media is a natural fit for the hotel industry because it is a service-oriented industry and benefits from the close relationships social media marketing establishes with its audience.

By regularly publishing valuable and entertaining information, Cinnamon would create an incentive for past andprospective customers to stay in touch and also learn more about the latest happenings in Sri Lanka and find out what would appeal to them the most.The topics of the blog would range from Tips for Travel, History, Art, Food, Excursions and other Leisure activities. The objective of this blog is to offera few tips and information that may not be already available for travelers to Sri Lanka.





Citrus Leisure PLC today announced the appointment of veteran and renowned "Chef Sudu" as the Executive Assistant Manager of its five-star Citrus Waskaduwa Hotel. The appointment comes on the heels of the group's decision to commence operations early this year.

Sudusinghe Chandrasena, fondly known as "Chef Sudu" is a well known figure among the hospitality industry both in Sri Lanka and around the world. He most recently made his mark as an exceptional Executive Chef at the Cinnamon Grand. Before coming down to Sri Lanka, Chef Sudu was the Executive Chef of the Shangri-La Hotel and Resorts in Dubai. Previous to this appointment, he was the Executive Sous Chef at the Four Seasons Hotel in Riyadh.

Chef Sudu has had the privilege of working with some of the biggest local and global brands in the hospitality industry. Overlooking the entire operations of food production at the five-star Earl's Regency in Kandy and running the Deli Market at the World Trade Centre in Colombo under the Hilton management are among some of the many accolades under Chef Sudu's name. During his time in the industry he has also worked at the Hilton Colombo, Holiday Inn Khor Fakkan in the UAE, Holiday Inn Colombo and the Galle Face Hotel.

Chef Sudu's decades of experience is complimented by extensive training in the hospitality trade both locally and globally. Obtaining his first qualification from the Ceylon Hotel School, Chef Sudu continued his training at the American Hotel and Lodging Association, Michigan where he was awarded a Diploma in Hospitality Management. He also holds ISO 22000 certifications for food safety standards. A founder member of the Chef's Guild in Sri Lanka, Chef Sudu is also a member of the Emirates and South African Chef's Guilds, and a member of the Hotels and Catering International Management Association. Inducted as a Maitre Rotisserie of the Dubai Chapter of the Chain de Rotisseries, he also functions as a prestigious certified culinary judge of the World Association of Chef's Societies.

With a quarter century of experience and culinary achievements under his belt, Chef Sudu is an exceptional trainer, a gift he hopes to use to train the new staff at the Citrus property. Having experienced the kitchens of the world, Chef Sudu also engages in many social activities and was a part of the World Chefs Tour Against Hunger that raised almost a million dollars towards the plight of starving children in South Africa.

Commenting on the appointment Executive Director/CEO of Citrus Leisure Chandana Talwatte notes, "At Citrus Leisure we strive for excellence in whatever we do and when it comes to finding the right people for the job it's no different. Chef Sudu is a veteran in the hospitality industry and carries with him decades of extensive experience both locally and globally. We believe that his experience and knowledge will only serve to uplift Citrus Waskaduwa's offering to its customers."

The appointment of Chef Sudu commencing from January 2014, adds more 'star power' to the Citrus Waskaduwa portfolio with the earlier appointment of Teddy Roland as the hotel's General Manager. This also further strengthens the group's decision to commence operations earlier than expected.





Ceremonial sitting welcomes new SC judge

January 16, 2014, 10:29 pm

The Supreme Court yesterday held a ceremonial sitting to welcome the newly appointed Judge of the Supreme Court, Justice Buveneka Aluvihare, PC, He earlier held the post of Additional Solicitor General of the Attorney General's Department.

President of the Bar Association Upul Jayasuriya, P. C. addressed the assembly on behalf of the unofficial bar.

Attorney General, Palitha Fernando, President's Counsel addressed the assembly on behalf of the official bar.

The ceremony was chaired by Chief Justice Mohan Pieris, PC.

It was attended by the Justices of the Supreme Court and the Court of Appeal.





