It was the first ever and the biggest nationalisation scheme in the history of Sri Lanka, the transition of the monopoly of the passenger transport bus services from the private bus companies to the public was effected under the regime of the late Mr. S. W. R. D. Bandaranaike at midnight of December 31, 1957. It is 52 years today, January 01, 2010.

After the introduction of the amended Motor Transport Bill and the formation of the Ceylon Transport Board, 3,400 buses operated by 76 private companies covering a total of 22,000 miles involving a work force of 15,000 employees were provided with a Provident Fund, a bonus scheme and many other benefits, The CTB functioned well under the chairmanship of Vere de Mel of Ceylon Civil Service fame. It made tremendous profits. However he left office as in a shock.

Thereafter political stooges were appointed chairman of this national trust, and political appointments as well as the ministerial interferences led to the ventures becoming an unprofitable white elephant to the nation.

When once a chairman who showed profits and some development left, the CTB became like a baby without parents.

Mr. Maithripala Senanayake was the Minister of Transport and Works in the Government of Mr. S. W. R. D. Bandaranaike at the time when the nationalisation of bus services came into effect. He became the chosen instrument to plan and execute the gigantic task of take-over of the services.

He was very fortunate in that there was Mr. M. F. de S. Jayaratne, once the country's most able and brilliant civil servant as his permanent secretary who assisted in the execution of this project with great ability and precision, in spite of insurmountable obstacles. He became his guide, friend and advisor as they faced this historic and momentous corporation.

At this stage Mr. Senanayake and Mr. Vere de Mel had the absolute co-operation and unstinting support from the workers themselves belonging to all those private bus companies.

There was considerable lobbying, that there were great pressures, there was a lot of expert advice, but Mr. Senanayake recommended to the Prime Minister Mr. Bandaranaike who fully supported him, and the government decided on a one-day take over rather than a phased take-over having discussed the pros and cons and also mindful of all possible consequences. Mr. Philip Gunawardena who was the Minister of Agriculture was also very keen on a one-day take-over.

On October 1, 1957, Minister Senanayake placed before Parliament, the Motor Transport Bill, providing for the nationalisation of the bus services. He explained the scope and content of this historic bill to the House and sought the co-operation of both sections of the House to see it through the legislature. Further he appealed to the House 'not to treat this measure as being put up by a political party or by the party in power, but to treat this measure as something of national interest not only as something that will ultimately benefit those who have been depending on this service for employment, but also something meant to serve the greater good of the country and the provide a better system of transport in this country'.

Omnibus transport first started in this country as an owner operated service. There were not even route licences and when more than one bus operated on a single route there was a scramble for the load. This sometimes ended with fisticuffs and even stabbings.

The earliest buses that plied on the main routes were open body buses. These buses had about three rows of seats cushioned with coir fibre encased in leather cloth facing the front. The first row of seats called the box seat and the driver's seat was at the right end of this row of seats. Passengers got in from both sides of the bus to sit in these rows of seats. The rear half of the bus had a row of seats facing the back and two rows of seats in which passenger sat facing one another with their backs to either side of the road.

Passengers got into this section through a door at the back with steps. The openings were covered with buttoned down leather cloth, the top protected passengers from the sun and rain, which could be rolled up when necessary.

The Nelson Commission appointed by the British Government to look into shortcomings in omnibus transport recommended the formation of limited liability bus companies and the replacing of the open body buses with closed body buses. These buses came to be know as Nelson body buses.

Some of the limited liability omnibus companies that came in to existence were South Western Bus Company of Sir Cyril de Zoysa, Silverline Bus Company of B. J. Fernando, Sri Lanka Omnibus Company of Jayasena Madanayake (M. J. Mahattava), Panadura Motor Transport Company of Sir Jeo Fernando, Wijaya Bus Company of Mudliyar David Mendis, Siri Medura Bus Company of Singho Mahattaya, Ebert Silva Bus Company of Monis Silva, Colombo Omnibus Company, High Level Bus Company, North Western Blue Line Bus Company, Green Line Bus Company, Lanka Matha Bus Company, P. S. Bus Company of Kandy etc.

The South Western Bus Company under Sir Cyril de Zoysa functioned a Medical centre at Ratmalana and had a number of well equipped work-shops at Ratmalana, Matugama and Ambalangoda. This organisation had a training school with qualified instructors for drivers, conductors and mechanics at Ratmalana. It should be noted down here that Sir Cyril de Zoysa travelled to London more than ten times to see how the London Transport Board was functioning in order to run his company as the London Transport Board.

This great man gave instructions to a number of Bus Companies such as Panadura Motor Transport Bus Company, Wijaya Bus Company and Ebert Silva Bus Company, on how to run their companies in a healthy way.

Mr. Vere de Mel ran the C.T.B. as was in the London Transport Board as in the South Western Bus Company. The C.T.B. was one of the best organised passenger transport systems in Asia. The buses were operating in every corner where they were needed according to scheduled times. The employees were well trained and uniformed and they were all satisfied with their services rendered to the nation.

Although the United National Party opposed the nationalisation, the government from 1965 to 1970 continued to operate the CTB as a state venture without any changes. When they gained power in 1970 under president J. R. Jayewardene, the C.T.B. was divided into nine regions and named them Sri Lanka Regional Transport Board managed by nine different boards of directors as the nine Provincial Council making a heavy burden to the rate payer.

Further they allowed private bus and van owners to operate bus services by the government owned Sri Lanka Regional Transport Boards. Further they peoplised the bus services while there were more buses in depot garages in want of repairs and spares than the number of buses operating on roads.

The private sector in their operations of bus services in competition with the operations of government owned S.L.R.T.B. bus services successfully progressed. Thus the income off S.L.R.T.B. bus services was very badly reduced to such an extent that it had been very much difficult to meet the cost of fuel and spares for their daily operation of bus services and also for the payment of salaries to the employees.

The ailing S.L.R.T.B.'s bus deteriorated to such an extent that it showed no progress.

However, on August 31, 2005 the government passed the Bill to revive the Sri Lanka Transport Board. Two years, after this revival, in 2007, out of 37,000 the SLTB employees around 12,000 were surplus and the board was constrained to run at a loss due to unsystematic recruitment. The annual income of the SLTB was about Rs. 12 billion with annual expenditure at Rs. 15 billion even though the Treasury paid Rs. 400 million to the SLTB annually.

The SLTB is a job dump of politicians of successive governments and had reached saturation point as a result of excess recruitment. Although the employees had been recruited as drivers, conductors and mechanics, the majority employed were unqualified. Drivers and conductors recruited to the SLTB on political influence had been promoted as depot inspectors and executives entitling them to use all the privileges of executives.

Around 300 newly imported buses were not in operation due to acute shortage of 1,200 drivers, conductors and mechanics. At the time the SLTB was running, about 4,200 buses across the country suffered several break downs, engine overhauls and repairs of buses could not be carried out due to lack of mechanics.

Although some measures were taken to utilize the services of idling staff, it became futile.

This organisation could be developed as a profitable venture so long as political interference was stopped for SLTB administrative affairs.

Most of the newly promoted executives, especially depot inspectors were found to be under the influence of liquor, playing cards or sleeping while on duty at the respective depots and had been unproductive.

If the things are/were in this manner, the revival of the SLTB will be in vain





