The private sector business leaders in Sri Lanka are up for a golden opportunity to expand their businesses to the Maldives, as the Maldivian President Mohamed Nasheed said that his government has decided to divest all their government businesses and urged the Sri Lankan Business leaders to acquire them. He said that some of those government business concerns are electricity power supply, highways, ports and the airport.

The Maldivian President addressed the Sri Lankan Business Leaders, at the Hotel Colombo Hilton and this important meeting was organized by the Small and Medium Enterprise Developers (SMED) Division of Federation of Chambers of Commerce and Industry of Sri Lanka (FCCISL) in collaboration with the Sri Lankan Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

Kosala Wickramanayake, President, FCCISL in welcoming Maldivian President Nasheed and the other distinguished guests said that the offer by the Maldivian President is vitally important and from a business perspective the contributions made by Sri Lankan hotel sector and the exporters are tremendous towards the Maldives and there is no doubt that these Sri Lankan business concerns would make successful approaches into the impending thriving Maldivian Market for many of the Sri Lankan Products.

Wickramanayake sincerely hoped that the Sri Lankan Business Community could expand its ties and venture into many other areas so that both the countries will stand to gain economically.

President Nasheed continuing his address said that he has decided that the Maldivian Government should not be doing business and thus have decided to divest all their government business concerns.

He told the Sri Lankan business community that it is a grand opportunity for the Sri Lankan private sector business leaders to participate in these business acquisitions.

He declared that there is utmost transparency in all these divesting activities and there is no need whatsoever to offer any kickbacks to any Maldivian officials.

He said that already Galle Face Hotels Group has invested in the area of hotel industry and commented that Sri Lankan hotel and leisure industry has already invested heavily in the Maldives. He also said that Sri Lankan private sector has invested heavily in his country and urged the Sri Lankan private sector to expend into other business areas where there is ample opportunity available.

A powerful Maldivian business delegation was also present and they have met a high powered Sri Lankan Private Sector delegation and discussed mutual business opportunities FCCISL in general indicated what Sri Lanka could offer such aspects as SME Development and Management Services; Enterprise Development Services; Industrial Engineering/Technology Services; agribusiness development and; Environmental/Resources Management.





