There should be an end to the destructive war that has devoured the island nation's prime period of growth and development, and it is time the country should get ready instead to compete with the developing countries, says Mr. P. Chandrasekaran, Minister for Community Development and Social Inequity Eradication, after his return from India, participating in the Overseas Indian Congress in New Delhi.

The Minister seized the opportunity of his presence in India to meet national leaders in the New Delhi and Tamil Nadu leaders in Chennai for involving India to resolve the 50-year ethnic problem that plague the island nation and wipe off blocks and hurdles to its economic growth.

The prolonged armed fights and wars saw many countries of the world stepping in with peace negotiations at different stages, and the historical one being the Norwegian initiative, all failing to fetch a permanent solution.

But there is now a new political situation emerging in the country with a new approach. While political analysts and experts feel these developments would not contribute much to the onward march of the country, the minorities Tamils are concerned and feel this would be a curse and it would further throw them out of gears. The only solution is the country should emerge as a nation sans war with its ethnic problem amicably settled.

The only country that has power and wherewithal to bring into this end is India, feels the Minister who is also the President of the UP Country Peoples Front and Workers Front. Excluding India we cannot find a permanent solution. So to bring in the LTTE and Sri Lankan government to negotiating table, a new authority should be identified at this juncture and to make contact with Indian government. As a first step only Mr. Chandrasekaran took preliminary efforts with a series of meeting with the Indian leaders both at the centre and the Tamil Nadu state. This small effort of his should open up new beginning to with the futuristic view, he says.





