The educational policy of the colonies, as J. E. Goldthorpe explained, was to provide primary education for the maximum number of children while the needs of the higher levels of education were restricted to an elite. The University College was a hybrid institution which fell short of a fully-fledged autonomous University. The University College was under the Executive Committee of Education in the State Council (1931-46), which,, in effect, meant that it was under a form of political control.

With regard to this matter, Jennings wrote that 'nobody who knew anything of university traditions could justify an organization controlled by seven politicians'. The transformation of an institution, which functioned as a Government Department, into an independent autonomous institution was no easy task, and it was to be converted into a national university.

Jennings, as his autobiography reveals, planned an elitist - oriented university on the basis of 'the Oxbridge model, and the University was made exclusively residential. It was this residential character, especially with its unique features implanted at Peradeniya, which created numerous problems for the both the policy-maker and administrators of the Universities in Sri Lanka. It was along with the creation of the University of Ceylon that the Free Education scheme came to be enacted in 1945 by the State Council, and the impact of this social demand model of education, with which secondary schools expanded, came to be felt in the country. Jennings planned a residential university at Peradeniya with an intake of nearly one thousand students; the intake in 1942 was 904 students, and it reached 2718 in 1957.

Today the entire intake to 15 Universities is in the region of 19000, and the reason for the increased intake could be linked to the Free Education scheme, under which the opportunities were expanded for those aspiring to enter the Universities. The implementation of the Government policy on the medium of instruction too had an immediate effect on the question of increased admissions to the University. In addition to the policy measures such as the Free Education and the medium of instruction, there were social and political pressures which demanded an expansion of opportunities for higher education. Two important concepts immediately became casualties in the process; the residential principle and the elite-orientation came under attack; changes were required to meet the increasing demand for higher education. In the post-war period there was a marked growth in the demand for education at all levels, primary, secondary and higher education. The demand for education is based upon the size of the child population, and there was a marked decline in infant mortality due to various improvements in health care. With free education, the enrollment rates began to increase, and the system of mass education became an important social function. The expansion of education brought many a benefit to all social classes, and it was seen as an, index of social mobility and social emancipation. Despite such developments, the system of higher education remained skewed in favour of the established elite who were left with the key to a wider world of knowledge, culture and political and commercial opportunities. It was in this scenario that the University of Ceylon became the object of criticism by the emerging nationalist elite because of the fact that the University of Ceylon produced English-educated graduates who dominated the professions and the public administrative institutions. It was the view of the critics that the University did not become the focal point of culture and learning. In other words, it remained an exclusive institution and admitted too few students. Jennings, for instance, never wanted the intake to go- beyond 5000, and the Peradeniya was to accommodate this number as a residential University. The Governments of the period were forced to provide university education for thousands of school - leavers educated in the medium of national languages, and the populist political forces, championing the cause of these young men and women, demanded the expansion of more access to university education. It was in this context that the two Buddhist centres of learning, Vidyodaya and Vidyalankara Pirivenas were converted into Universities; they were traditional institutions of learning created in 1873 and 1875 respectively to promote Buddhist learning in the country. Though they were converted into modem Universities by an Act of Parliament, the traditional influences began to guide the development of these institutions in their initial phase, and they, in a variety of ways, followed the model of the University of Ceylon, including the curricula which came to be dominated by traditional disciplines in the Humanities and Social Sciences. The majority of the students, who sought entrance to Universities came from the rural areas, offered subjects related to the established traditional disciplines, for instance, Sinhalese, Pali, Sanskrit, Buddhist Studies, Philosophy and Ceylon History. Occasionally, there were students offering Western History, Geography and Government. There was no attempt to diversify the courses in the Universities, and this resulted in a cycle of events, under which there was an over-production of Arts graduates, and the process still continues. Though the system expanded due to political pressure, public policy initiatives were not taken to break-away from the traditional mould of the colonial university, and both teaching and research began to deteriorate due to the absence of central policy of change and development.

The unitary model of the University, which Sri Lankan Universities inherited since the establishment of the University of Ceylon in 1942, proved inappropriate to meet the multiple demands of economic and social development of an independent State; the Universities, which, came on the scene in the subsequent years, were expected to make changes with a view to making higher education more responsive to country's needs and the changing labour market. Since the system remained totally public sector oriented, the changes and the forms of diversification were not effected in such a way so as to see that both quality and relevance guide the entire process of change. It is this aspect which needs immediate investigation and adjustment if the Sri Lankan Universities are to function as effective institutions of learning. It was why I traced the history in order to show that the Universities, in some form or other, remains in the traditional mould, because of which innovative changes could not be made to convert them into centres of learning and research. Both teaching and research focused on traditional disciplines, and it undoubtedly made an impact on the early development of the Sri Lankan intellectual enterprise.





