Abraham Lincoln, a former US President, once said "You can fool all the people some of the time, and some of the people all the time, but you cannot fool all the people all the time". But a friend of mine told me during the recent election campaign period that he could have tailor-made it for Sri Lanka this way "In Sri Lanka, politicians can fool all the voters all the time, Period." Beside the point, in my view, at the recently concluded elections, the majority of the people have also endorsed that they were interested in continuing with the currently enjoyed political stability than "mere changes", for the simple reason that no viable and practical alternative policy frameworks, especially in the economic policy front, were made available to the voters.

Before we talk about economic policies, let me suggest that the President and the Government may immediately introduce few constitutional amendments before the next parliamentary election to be held before April this year, and do away with the preferential system for the District lists with so called "manape" to be marked. We have been talking about the "German system" for the last so many years since early 90's and I presume that there is already some kind of a consensus among the major political parties to have this mixed system, where the old "first past the post" be introduced for electoral polling divisions together with the proportionate voting be also taken into consideration on a given list from each political party in order to select members of parliament.

As for the economic policies adopted by Sri Lanka, one can argue that the implementation of the open economy during the last 27 years has created social unrest among the less privileged people in the country. There is sufficient evidence to show that the quality of life of the people has not improved even with the loans and massive debts obtained to develop the economy under open economic policies introduced in 1977. According to the World Bank development report, 42 percent of our population is below "$2 a day" which is an accepted international poverty line, whereas in Malaysia, only 10 percent was below "$2 a day" poverty line. What is more disturbing is the vast regional disparity in economic development activities and low physical quality of life of the people living in the rural villages. Basically, in the past whatever the little development achieved too has been centred in the Western Province, However, since 2005 an attempt has been made to take some economic activities happen at the periphery which should be commended, but there seems to be a lack of Private-Public partnership in those projects, mostly government funding projects only.

To understand what went wrong in the economic front, it's important to critically evaluate the practical implementation of the concept of liberalization and how it works in the developing countries. The proponents of the free economy argue that the best way to help the poor is to make the economy grow. They also believe that trade liberalization would enhance a country's income by forcing resources to move from less productive uses to more productive uses. However what actually happened was that most of the so called inefficient industries and other agricultural or "service' ventures had to close down under pressure from international competition. It had destroyed existing jobs but no new job opportunities in the so-called productive ventures were created. This is mainly due to the fact that there is a shortage of capital and entrepreneurship. Further there was a lack of infrastructure facilities available for smooth functioning of businesses.

Even the World Bank and the IMF have accepted that they have pushed liberalization process too far and in fact, it had contributed to the global financial crisis. It seems that if a country over a period of time, draws out super profits derived by exploiting labour (so called technological advancement and associated labour productivity gains) without reinvesting back, then the society's total liabilities exceed total assets of the society and that leads to serious credit crunch. It reminds me of the famously known maxian thesis during the Russian revolution; Technique is dead without living labour and cannot, by itself, constitute a source for creating productivity. We get the larger part of growth not from capital investment but from investments in men. We get from men pretty much more than what we invest in them (Quoted in productivity, N P C Journal of India Volume 2, No. 1, Nov-Dec 1961 Page 6.)

The writer published an article in 2004 titled "Buy Sri Lankan, be Sri Lankan" arguing the need to adopt a more people oriented, regulated market economic model for Sri Lanka, as opposed to Free Market economic model as there is clear and sufficient evidence to conclude that Sri Lanka has not been able to achieve its desired objectives having implemented such economic policies for nearly 26 years. In June 2007, the Maubima Lanka Foundation launched its campaign in collaboration with the Government of Sri Lanka to promote the idea islandwide and it has now become a powerful organization encouraging local industries and production. The dramatic economic growth in China, Malaysia and India in the recent past was not due to a "miracle of the market economy". It is therefore important to study and learn the lessons from those countries so that we could formulate a new/alternate economic model.

In my article published in April titled "Home-grown economic model" I argued that despite global economic downturn, Sri Lanka could receive large sums of funds of capital flows for humanitarian assistance with the liberation of the north, reconstruction and rehabilitation projects in north/east areas in addition to southern infrastructure development projects. In terms of the famous Harrod- Domar model of the development economic theory, it is likely that more Foreign Direct Investments (FDIs) may flow into the country followed by these funds, as the return on investment of those funded projects would essentially be higher.

The conclusion here is that the free market economic policies if not managed properly, are undesirable in terms of achieving true economic development and improve the quality of life of the people. It is interesting to note that the UN, FAO has mentioned recently that agricultural sector is more resilient to global financial crisis than any other sector of the economy. Our farmers have been working on this premise anyway. The new projects such as "GAMATA IT" programme could really add value to agro base economy in the rural villages and transform the dualistic nature of hitherto underdeveloped basic agricultural activities into a vibrant agro based industrial sector.

My own view about the outcome of the recently concluded presidential election results would be that majority of the rural voters do not subscribe to going back to previous Free- market economic policy regime proposed by the defeated opposition candidate during his election campaign. Therefore what is desirable is to formulate a new/alternative economic model (based on socially- oriented market economy) where the benefits of economic development are not concentrated in a few but shared by all. It is therefore suggested that a Presidential commission be set up to formulate a new model.





