Kuliyapitiya – President Mahinda Rajapaksa's victory at the Presidential elections of 2005 save the country from LTTE terrorism, Media, Information, Enterprise Development and Investment Promotions Minister Anura Priyadarshana Yapa said.

"At this critical stage, it is time to speculate what would have been the plight of Sri Lanka if Mahinda Rajapaksa was not elected President in 2005," he said.

If Mahinda lost the election, Eelam would have been declared in the North and East by now. The entire country would have been a pool of blood as the LTTE would have waged war to capture the whole of Sri Lanka, the Minister said.

President Mahinda Rajapaksa's victory prevented that danger by defeating the LTTE terrorism. This achievement is enough for people to cast their votes in his favour, he said.

The Minister was addressing a series of meetings in the Katugampola Electorate in support of the candidature of President Rajapaksa. The meetings were held in Raddala, Nagama, Akkarathiha colony and Pethigodagedara.

The Minister said that even after the defeat of the LTTE, issues advocated by them were emerging in the North and the East.

The right to self-determination, remerger of the North and the East, removal of High Security Zones had come to the forefront through the TNA – the political wing of LTTE.

President Mahinda Rajapaksa, as a true patriotic leader, had rejected the demands of the TNA, he said adding that the opposition Presidential candidate had accepted them. In other words, they had agreed to re-divide the unified Sri Lanka.

"TNA MP Thurai Ratnasingham categorically stated in a TV interview that General Fonseka and Opposition Leader Rani l Wickremesinghe had agreed to grant their demands. They had signed a pact to that effect. They could not tear up or ignore that pact as it was conveyed to the international community. Their actions showed that they would be ready to even betray the trust of the people to get a few votes," he said.

The Minister claimed that General Fonseka was only a puppet dancing to the tunes of the international Community. His other companions, the UNP, the JVP, Mangala, Hakeem, Mano Ganeshan and the TNA also do the same thing and have no regard for the country.

"President Mahinda Rajapaksa on the other hand is a bold and courageous leader who has the courage and guts to ask the Western Powers to mind their own business without poking their fingers into the internal affairs of Sri Lanka. We are proud of such a bold leader. We have no alternative but to elect him our President for the second term with a bigger mjority. Then the international community will realise that Sri Lanka is with Mahinda. Then other countries would not interfere in our affairs," he said





