Arpico Supercentres have introduced a unique incentive scheme to reward the Arpico Privilege Gold Card holders in the coming months. Arpico Privilege Card was introduced in April last year making the concept an extraordinary success by enlisting more than 55,000 members..

The Loyalty Card which was introduced during the 75th anniversary year of Arpico comes in both Silver and Gold categories. The Silver Card is offered at the time of registration. To receive a Gold Card, one must graduate earning 2500 privilege points within a period of 12 months from the date of registration.

They have around 1000 Gold Card members and special recognition was given to them from last December onwards. The first Gold Card was handed over to Ms Ramani Smits by Dr. Sena Yaddehige, Chairman of Richard Pieris & Company during the opening of the re-launched Kandy Arpico Supercentre, recently.

Under the Gold Card rewards scheme, there will be special discounts ranging upto 25% on Signature brand shirts from Arpico Fashions and Arpico Furniture. 'Taste Bud offers' at Arpico Food courts, Privilege Bonus point offers for Arpico Own Label products (Arpico Family brands) and hampers with competitive rates. In addition, the Privilege Gold members will be rewarded with personalized gifts when they introduce a friend to the Privilege rewards programme and as the friend graduates to a Gold Card he/she will receive more gifts. The opportunities are available to redeem Privilege points for charity and Arpico will also contribute towards the charity chosen. In addition to Arpico Privilege points that are received for purchases made, and in the event the Privilege Card member pays the bill through an ICICI bank debit card will receive a guaranteed 1% discount on each bill, irrespective of bill value.

Speaking about the reward plan, Anil Senewiratne, Customer Relationship Manager for Arpico Supermarkets, said, "The Privilege Loyalty Card programme has become a huge success among our supermarket chain. The growing number speaks for itself. The shoppers who have qualified for the Gold category has exceeded our expectations and it's high time we reward them for their loyalty and support. This reward scheme is a result of that."

Arpico has designed a special welcome pack for all Privilege Gold Card members and it is being handed over to them at all Arpico Supercentres by the respective outlet manager.

Senewiratne stated that few of their channel partners have also joined hands with them to take this programme forward and many other are looking at the opportunities to add further value to the Loyalty programme.

In order to obtain a Loyalty Card, a customer will have to fill in a simple form and hand it over to the cashier with an enrolment fee of Rs.100/- and they will immediately get a temporary card, followed by the actual card within a month.

Customers will be entitled for points on their purchases – every purchase of Rs. 100/- will give one point. Points earned will be equivalent to the rupee value. These points can be redeemed immediately or allowed to be accumulated. Accumulated points can be redeemed later or can be forwarded for special gifts, discounts, prizes, surprises, exciting in-store deals, free shopping and even customized offerings.





