Sandip Roy meets Naomi Klein, the anti-Ayn Rand, whose new book looks at how disasters are a festival of dollars.

In July 2005, Naomi Klein found herself on a beach in Sri Lanka. The waters were turquoise blue. The beach was empty except for a cluster of hand-painted wooden catamarans. It was picture postcard perfect. But it was a paradise created by the deadly collusion of nature and government, says the 37-year-old Canadian journalist in her latest book Shock Doctrine - The Rise of Disaster Capitalism.

Barely seven months ago the Boxing Day tsunami had devastated Sri Lanka. But once the rubble was cleared away, what was left, says Klein, was what the tourism industry had been coveting all along - oceanfront property, perfect for plush resorts. "It was a land grab," says Klein, who speaks in urgent perfectly formed sentences. The fisherfolk found themselves pushed into inland camps in the name of safety and security. But resorts were exempted from the buffer zone restrictions as long as they classified their construction as "repair". Meanwhile the government pushed through a controversial water privatisation programme.

"The US government was pushing that the tsunami was an opportunity for Sri Lanka to really launch its high-end tourism market," says Klein. "The World Bank was very aggressive in pushing the government to adopt these policies in exchange for giving aid." The NGOs, says Klein, now feel they were accomplices to that "land theft", providing aid that in effect kept the tsunami victims in camps which were little more than "holding pens".

Sri Lanka's response to the tsunami is a textbook example of University of Chicago economist Milton Friedman's theories at work. In 1973, when Salvador Allende was overthrown in a coup in Chile by Augusto Pinochet, the Chicago Boys went to work remaking the country. Friedman used the phrase "economic shock treatment" to describe his prescription for Chile. Klein ticks them off. "Deep social cuts to health care and education, 30 per cent reductions - eventually 50 per cent - reductions in spending. Total free trade, privatisation of massive parts of the economy - Chile was the very first laboratory." And was pushed through, says Klein, thanks to "Pinochet's iron fist".

Since then as Klein documents exhaustively in her globetrotting book, shock treatment has become part of an extreme country makeover. Here is how it works. First there is a disaster, a coup, a terror attack, a tsunami: the population goes into shock, the economy is in a shambles, a perfect opportunity to push through unpopular economic measures. "In the midst of a crisis people regress, they become fearful," says Klein, whose earlier book No Logo, a punchy attack on brand culture, was called "a movement bible" by the New York Times . "This is not a moment when there can be profound debates about privatising the electricity system."

The 1989 Tiananmen Square massacre in Beijing is often seen as a crackdown on democratic reform. But what Deng Xiaoping was really halting was political reform, not economic reform. In 1980 Milton Friedman had actually gone to advise China on free-market theory. After 1989 Deng Xiao Ping implemented his recommendations like price deregulation, cracked the country open to foreign investment and helped turn China "into the sweatshop of the world".

Russia followed suit after the shock of collapse of the Soviet Union with the rapid-fire privatisation of the country's approximately 225,000 state-owned companies. When Boris Yeltsin's tanks encircled parliament, Klein says it was like watching Chile in reverse. While Pinochet first staged a coup and then dissolved democracy in order to impose shock therapy, Yeltsin imposed shock therapy in a democracy and then defended it by staging a coup.

The latest candidate for shock therapy is Iraq. None other than Yeltsin's former deputy prime minister Yegor Gaidar, the architect of the Russian shock therapy, was flown into Baghdad in 2003 to advise the Iraqis on capitalist transformation. Corporate taxes were lowered to 15 per cent and 200 firms were privatised immediately. Foreign companies were allowed to own 100 per cent of Iraqi assets. Even the US is not immune. After Katrina, the Heritage Foundation proposed making the region an economic competitive zone and repealing environmental regulations. "Within weeks, the Gulf Coast became a domestic laboratory for the same kind of government-run-by-contractors that had been pioneered in Iraq," writes Klein.

The good news, says Klein, is that many countries are wising up. In Latin America countries are going to one another for economic assistance, not to Washington and the IMF. Klein believes resistance is a must because without it she'd already had a glimpse of what would happen if we let shock doctrine play out to its logical end. During the 2007 wildfires in California some homes burned to the ground while ones next door were saved by private fire trucks. The difference? The ones who got the firefighters had paid a $20,000 insurance premium for boutique-level protection. And that says Klein is a world of "disaster apartheid" in which few people ultimately want to live.





