Sampath Bank offers fabulous gifts of school books, all necessary stationery, gift vouchers for school shoes and other school supplies through 'Sampath Pubudu' and 'Sampath Sapiri' accounts, to support the development of the savings habit, while helping our children in their education.

Commenting on their new launch Marketing Manager of Sampath Bank; Upul Nawaratne Bandara said, "Sampath Bank is proud and very excited to put forward the children of this country, since it is the first time that a bank is offering the stationery and the other school materials, of this nature".

"We want to establish ourselves as the Bank who provides the books and essential stationery to the children of this country, and this service is far more than just a gift scheme. Sampath Bank wishes to build a close relationship with the loyal customer base, while providing them the highest level of value additions from the bank", he added.

"The concept was set in motion in the middle of December 2008 by the senior management of Sampath Bank, since we wanted this to commence for the new school year 2009. Within a very short period of time we managed to organize the promotion with our entire branch network island wide", he said.

"The Government is providing the school text books and uniforms, but there are plenty of students who even do not have the other essential bits and pieces. So, through the new gift scheme of Sampath Bank, they will go to school well equipped in this year and ahead. We are looking forward to help especially the children who are having financial problems and their pack of gift has some added things", Bandara noted.

"Offering both existing account holders and those opening new accounts the chance to receive school books, pens, pencils, and other necessary materials for a deposit of Rs.1,000. Deposits over Rs.2,500 would receive a gift voucher from DSI to buy shoes in addition to their school books and other equipments.

Furthermore for deposits over Rs.5,000 would receive same gift package with a voucher worth Rs.1,200 from DSI, which never happened during the past in the banking industry", he highlighted.

"Despite the fact that these account holders are rewarded with school books, vouchers and shoes, their deposit interests will grow along with them, and we wish to help them in their higher education as well. From next year Sampath Bank is looking ahead to provide the whole booklist", he added.

"Even though this gift scheme is costly, Sampath Bank thinks that it is an investment, as it eventually facilitates to make well educated future leaders to our country. Our tag line 'We Present Your Future' suits ideal along with the new gift scheme. The success of Sampath Bank is our customers and we are ready to offer them the maximum benefits, while developing the habit of saving among the rest of the community", he said.

"Furthermore, the gifts received by the children are valued at over 50 percent of the deposit amount, so the more you save the more you get with this tremendous offer from the Sampath Bank. We want to accommodate people who can save something and to increase their practice of saving. So, this note is for the wise parents in this country who care about their children", he stated.





