BUSINESS PEOPLE rely on two completely different sources of advice, a survey shows.: one in their accounting departments, and one in their beds. Accountants came out as the number one font of wisdom, according to ATF Business Advisors, a UK firm. But next comes our spouses — business people rate bed-partners as better sources of smart advice than highly paid advisors, such as non-executive directors of their own firms. People need "two different types of wisdom", a psychologist commented.

My eyebrows rose, but I did not question this report. That's because I was reading it in bed, and any snort of skepticism about spousal intelligence would have been greeted unfavourably by someone in the near vicinity.

But thinking it over, I could see the sense of having two totally contrasting streams of advice. It's a bit like stereoscopic vision, but without the tacky plastic glasses.

I decided to test out the theory by giving identical ten-part questionnaires to my accountant and my wife, so that I could compare answers. Here's the data I ended up with.

1) Why did the chicken cross the road?

Wife: "To get to the other side?"

Accountant: "To find himself in a more favorable tax jurisdiction, more than likely, assuming he had access to good advice."

2) What's two and two?

Wife: "Four."

Accountant: "Before or after tax?"

3) How many children should a couple have?

Wife: "As many as you can, of course, why stop after just three or four or five or six or seven or eight or nine or.... [etc]?"

Accountant: "We find that the slight tax advantages of having dependent offspring are greatly outweighed by extraordinarily high maintenance costs."

4) Is there a God?

Wife: "Yes. And He watcheth over us. Amen."

Accountant: "There IS a senior auditor, if that's what you mean." (Shudders.)

5) Do you believe in love?

Wife: "Yes. What do you think keeps me here with you despite your microscopic bank balance?"

Accountant: "Despite its popularity, due diligence reveals that its benefits are non-tangible and off-balance sheet."

6) Why is there suffering?

Wife: "Because you are SO mean, but having said that, the Harvey Nichols sale is on until weekend, so you COULD redeem yourself."

Accountant: "Because you file everything so late."

7) Is there life after death?

Wife: "Yes. One day we will be free of all the cares and burdens and weight-loss programs of our earthly lives."

Accountant: "We tell our clients not to even think about dying these days, as there are so many death duties that it's just not worth it."

8) What do women want?

Wife: "Ooh, hang on a minute while I get a pen and paper. Have you got a couple of hours?"

Accountant: "An account at Harvey Nichols."

9) Why can't men talk about their feelings?

Wife: "They don't have any."

Accountant: "There is no suitable form on which to record them."

10) What is the secret of happiness?

Wife: "Three words, I love you."

Accountant: "Three words: Cashier's cheque enclosed."

* Warning: If your accountant eventually realizes you have a microscopic bank balance, I have some bad news for you. You may have no other way to retain his services than by marrying him. Ewww. Mine's got a scratchy beard.





