The Judicial Interpretation of Article 107(3) : A response

January 29, 2013, 5:28 pm

By Elmore Perera, Attorney-at-Law

Founder CIMOGG, Past President OPA

A rational person (whether natural or juristic) is deemed to intend the logical consequences of his/her/its acts. Any other person who refers to such acts without express disapproval is also deemed to endorse such intentions.

The dire consequences of the clearly unjust acts being perpetrated at will, do not permit us to sit back and leisurely enjoy the "free entertainment" provided by the strenuous efforts being made by usually sensible Sri Lankans. Many of them are falling over each other in a maddening scramble to interpret constitutional provisions so as to "justify the unjustifiable".

Article 107(3) reads "Parliament shall by law or by Standing Orders provide for all matters relating to the presentation of such an address, including the procedure for the passing of such resolution, the investigation and proof of the alleged misbehaviour or incapacity and the right of such judge to appear and to be heard in person or by representative". (The "address" referred to is the address to be presented to the President for removal of a superior court judge on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity).

Notwithstanding the mandatory requirement to do so contained in Article 107(3), Parliament had failed to provide for any of the relevant matters by law or by Standing Orders until after the motion to impeach Chief Justice Samarakoon was received by the Speaker on April 3, 1984. A Parliamentary Select Committee was appointed to inquire into the allegations and report. Standing Order 78A was hurriedly adopted on April 4, 1984 and another PSC was appointed to consider the findings of the first PSC and report. The six government MPs on the Select Committee appointed under S.O. 78A unanimously held that the alleged (and admitted) conduct of the Chief Justice did not amount to proved misbehavior and the PSC process was duly terminated in spite of the 5/6th majority of the government in Parliament. The three Opposition members on the PSC, viz. Anura Bandaranayake, Dinesh Gunawardena and Sarath Muttetuwegama, went one step further and, in a separate report

(i) stated that seeking to inquire into whether or not the Chief Justice was guilty of "proved misbehaviour" was violating the provisions of Article 4(c) of the constitution,

(ii) urged the House to amend S.O. 78A to provide for the process of inquiry preceding the resolution to remove a judge be conducted by judges chosen by the Speaker from a panel appointed for this purpose, and

(iii) urged the President to refer this matter to the Supreme Court for an authoritative opinion thereon, under Article 129(1) of the constitution.

Article 129(1) reads, "If at any time it appears to the President of the Republic that a question of law or fact has arisen or is likely to arise which is of such nature and of such public importance that it is expedient to obtain the opinion of the Supreme Court upon it, he may refer that question to that Court for consideration and the Court may, after such hearing as it thinks fit, within the period specified in such reference or within such time as may be extended by the President, report to the President its opinion thereon".

However, neither President Jayawardena, nor President Premadasa, nor President Wijetunga, nor President Kumaratunga, nor President Rajapaksa cared to refer this matter to the Supreme Court for an authoritative opinion. This was in spite of the fact that two resolutions for impeachment of Chief Justice Sarath N. Silva were both thwarted by the President by resorting to the Executive powers vested in her.

Even when the question of impeaching Chief Justice Bandaranayake was first mooted, President Rajapaksa did not seek the authoritative opinion of the Supreme Court, and deliberately left it to his minions in Parliament to interpret the relevant provisions of the constitution in a manner that he indicated and to act according to such interpretations which were in clear violation of the provisions of Article 125(1) of the constitution.

Article 125(1) reads, "The Supreme Court shall have sole and exclusive jurisdiction to hear and determine any question relating to the interpretation of the Constitution, and accordingly, whenever any such question arises in the course of any proceedings in any court or tribunal or other institution empowered by law to administer justice or to exercise judicial or quasi-judicial functions, such question shall forthwith be referred to the Supreme Court for determination. The Supreme Court may direct that further proceedings be stayed pending the determination of such question".

The validity of the hurriedly arrived at purported findings of the Parliamentary Select Committee, appointed under Standing Order 78A as adopted in 1984, was challenged in the Court of Appeal. The question arose in the Court of Appeal as to whether or not S.O. 78A was consistent with the provisions of Article 107(3) of the Constitution. In terms of Article 125(1) the Court of Appeal was specifically divested of any power to determine that question and forthwith referred same to the Supreme Court for determination as required by the said Article 125(1).

Either genuinely unaware of, or deliberately suppressing any knowledge of the fact that the "Supremacy of the Legislature" which existed during the brief period of five years from 1972 had been abolished with the promulgation of the 1978 constitution, the Speaker, all government MPs, including the Deputy Speaker and PSC Members and even some Opposition MPs, arrogated to themselves the power to interpret the constitution on the entirely false premise that "Parliament was Supreme". Unaware of, or in callous disregard of the clear provision in Article 125(1) of the 1978 constitution that the sole and exclusive jurisdiction to hear and determine any question relating to the interpretation of the constitution was vested in the Supreme Court, supporters of President Rajapaksa from all walks of life, propounded their own theories supporting the Rajapaksa regime's interpretation of the constitution. This support was based on the singularly false premise that "Parliament was Supreme" and therefore Parliament's determination necessarily superseded any interpretation that the Supreme Court may choose to make.

Though altogether tragic, it was indeed hilarious to see and hear, on the electronic media, the pontifical assertions of the constitutionality of every single act of the Parliamentary Select Committee made by persons who were apparently not even aware of what the relevant constitutional provisions were. Statements reported in the print media were no less hilarious but were couched in less offensive language.

The authoritative determination of the Supreme Court in respect of the aforementioned "reference" was announced in the Court of Appeal on January 3, 2013. The Supreme Court, acknowledged by the Speaker in October 2012, as having the sole and exclusive jurisdiction in interpreting any and all matters relating to the constitution, unequivocally declared that the PSC and the proceedings therein were unconstitutional and therefore illegal. The Deputy Speaker was extensively reported in the print media to have stated categorically that, in accordance with relevant constitutional provisions, the PSC was only mandated to investigate and report, but not to arrive at a finding of guilt, in respect of the allegations. As expected, he thereafter made valiant and apparently effective statements to reinterpret the constitution to override his spontaneous assertion aforementioned.

A Writ of Certiorari was issued by the Court of Appeal quashing the findings of the PSC. The all-powerful combine of the Executive, the legislature, the sycophants in the judicial arm of the state and the hordes of those who could neither see nor hear of any wrong doing by the regime would have none of this and worked overtime to nullify and even ridicule the "authoritative decision of the Supreme Court" and the Court of Appeal order quashing the PSC findings.

On January 22, 2013, The Island newspaper gave great prominence to an article on "the judicial interpretation of Article 107(3)", which gave prominence to several non-issues, viz.

(i) The Supreme Court carried out the duty cast on them by the constitution to authoritatively interpret the constitution whenever the need to do so arose. (The legislature refused to abide by this and proceeded to act in violation of the constitution by asserting an imagined jurisdiction to do so).

(ii) A possible consequence of the interpretation of the Supreme Court determination is that it may need a revision of the constitution to reflect the wording in the SC interpretation. (The interpretation of the Supreme Court is strictly limited to the existing constitutional provisions and does not extend to possible amendments).

(iii) Judiciary trespassed the domain of the legislature. (The provisions of Article 129(1) only required the Supreme Court to provide the President with an authoritative opinion on Article 107(3) as presently in the constitution and certainly NOT to advise on any amendment of the constitution. It would be going outside its domain if in fact it did so. That would have been trespassing into the domain of the legislature).

(iv) A clear understanding of what constitutes misbehaviour, as referred to in Article 107, does not exist. (That is precisely the reason that a forum capable of defining it objectively is necessary).

(v) Since appointments of Superior Court Judges are dependent on good behaviour, the threshold needed to satisfy 'good behaviour' should in fact be low (This will only perhaps qualify rapists, murderers, robbers and cheats who have successfully evaded the long arm of the law to be appointed to the judiciary. How that will fulfil the appearance of justice defies understanding).

(vi) The last citadel of Rule of Law is an independent judiciary and an important aspect of good behaviour is the ability of the judiciary to resist interference from any quarter. (He seems to be blissfully ignorant of the fact that it was the Chief Justice's strenuous efforts to protect the judiciary from interference by the Executive when the Executive was 'knocking at its gates' that sparked off this entire dark episode).

(vii) The judiciary had no jurisdiction to precipitate revisions to the constitution which it is committed to uphold under oath. If revisions are not needed the Supreme Court should advise Parliament on how to accommodate its determination under Article 129 or RE-VISIT its determination to fit within existing constitutional provisions. (The only duty cast on the Supreme Court by the constitution is to interpret the existing provisions of the constitution as at that time. It is for the legislature to abide by that authoritative interpretation in that instance, and, if so desired, for the legislature to amend the constitution for the future).

There is a set procedure to review or "re-visit" the determination of the Supreme Court. That was the only valid option lawfully available to the Executive or the legislature. Rejecting it with disdain and acting in flagrant violation of it was certainly not an available option.

It is abundantly clear that we have a problem because the legislature that makes the law has assumed the exclusive right to decide whether or not they themselves have broken the law.

How accurate Bertrand Russel was, when he observed that "Government can easily exist without law, but law cannot exist without government".





Under-19 Cricket

January 30, 2013, 12:00 pm

By Reemus Fernando

St. Peter's College cruised to an innings and 12 runs victory over Lumbini College as skipper Dushan Hemantha picked up five wickets to restrict Lumbini to 117 runs in the second innings after enforcing the follow-on in their Under-19 cricket tournament match ended with many overs to spare at Colts Grounds, Colombo yesterday.

Defending champions Trinity College registered their first victory of the season as leg-spinner Lakshan Jayasinghe bagged ten wickets to lead them to an innings and 83 runs victory over St. Aloysius' College at Galle yesterday.

The left-arm spinner picked up six wickets for eight runs to skittle out the home team for 41 runs in the second inning after they were forced to follow on.

Anupa Thilakaratne, Poorna Aluthge and Devind Pathmanathan took bowling honours restricting Thurstan College to 98 runs for nine wickets to help Royal College take command in their U-19 cricket encounter which commenced at Thurstan Ground at Reid Avenue yesterday. Batting first, Royal made 225 runs.

Pawan Devinda continued his impressive run with the bat clobbering an unbeaten double century to power Mahanama College to 301 for four wickets declared against Dharmapala College in their match commenced at Surrey Ground, Maggona yesterday.

Devinda cracked eight sixes and 26 fours in his 186-ball knock to help Mahanama take command. He has been the mainstay batsman of the team during the last several matches. In reply, Dharmapala were 63 for four wickets at stumps.

St. Anthony's College skipper Sachin Bulathsinhala picked up eight wickets for 36 runs to restrict Dharmaraja College to 144 runs before the Antonians struggled to post 95 for six wickets at stumps on day one of their match in Kandy yesterday.





Those involved in impeachment rewarded - JVP

'Ministerial staff now over 1,300 strong'

January 29, 2013, 10:01 pm

by Shamindra Ferdinando

JVP Propaganda Secretary and parliamentarian Vijitha Herath yesterday alleged that Ratnapura District MP Pavitra Wanniarachchi had been rewarded for her role in the high-profile campaign to impeach Chief Justice Dr. Shirani Bandaranayake.

Herath was referring to Wanniarachchi receiving the power and energy portfolio at the expense of Patali Champika Ranawaka, at Monday's mini-cabinet reshuffle. JHU nominee Ranawaka was given the Technology, Research and Atomic Energy portfolio, which Ms Wanniarachchi held earlier.

Addressing the media at JVP headquarters in Pelawatte, Battaramulla, Herath pointed out that Wanniarachchi had led those who handed over the impeachment motion against Dr. Bandaranayake to Speaker Chamal Rajapaksa.

The JVPer said that Anura Priyadarshana Yapa, Chairman of the Parliamentary Select Committee (PSC),

which found Dr. Bandaranayake guilty on some of the allegations made by 117 UPFA members, too, had been rewarded at the expense of UPFA General Secretary Susil Premjayantha, who lost the Petroleum Industries portfolio to Yapa. Premjayanth ended up with the environment portfolio, previously held by Yapa. He was also given the renewable energy portfolio, which was earlier handled by the Power and Energy Minister.

Herath alleged that President Rajapaksa reshuffled the cabinet as he wanted to give a boost to those who spearheaded the operation against Dr. Bandaranayake. He emphasized that the situation at the Petroleum and Power ministries didn't warrant changes at the top. The JVP propaganda chief dismissed the assertion that ministers Premjayantha and Ranawaka weren't efficient hence changes necessary.

The JVP said that Education Minister Bandula Gunawardena, too, had his wings clipped with Duminda Dissanayake being appointed Educational Services Minister in the wake of a dispute at a recent meeting over the distribution of school uniform material. The JVP alleged that Minister Gunawardena got into trouble due to him taking a position contrary to that of the powers that be.

Herath said that with the appointment given to Dissanayake, there were two ministers, two deputy ministers and a monitoring MP though the education sector was in chaos. The JVPer said that the government had caused irreparable damage to education.

He said that the UPFA's 69-member jumbo sized cabinet had a 1,035 strong staff, whereas deputy ministers' staff comprised 280 workers. Of the 69 ministers, two were not in the cabinet, though they enjoyed all perks and privileges given to their cabinet colleagues. The MP said that vast majority of 1,315 staffers were family members of politicians and relatives maintained at taxpayers' expense.

Herath said that there were 28 Deputy Ministers, though some of them exercised ministerial powers. According to him, those struggling to make ends meet had been forced to undergo further burdens due to a top heavy government squandering public funds.

Herath ridiculed the creation of a new portfolio in the name of Botanical Gardens and Public Recreation when ordinary people were finding it extremely difficult to survive due to the spiraling cost of living. The MP said that Kurunegala District MP Jayaratne Herath, in his new capacity as the minister in charge of Botanical Gardens and Public Recreation, could provide entertainment to the suffering masses.

Could anything be as ridiculous as appointing a sugar industries minister, he said. The day the UPFA appointed ministers for dhal, coconut and rice wouldn't be far away, the MP said.





Ways of curbing road fiends

January 29, 2013, 8:10 pm

The proposal to introduce a system to black-mark offending drivers, leading to suspension or cancellation of their right to drive, is commendable. In view of the horrendous and unacceptable toll on human life and property, in no other sector is prevention more imperative than cure. One of the best indices of a country's development and culture is its road behaviour and courtesies to fellow users. In this, we are dreadfully poor. Here are a few issues that the enforcing authorities may focus on.

In view of the bad reputation that the Police have for incompetence, selective justice and corruption, the possibility of seeking civilian volunteers to accompany police on their detection activities may help.

Reckless driving is rampant and has to be ruthlessly weeded out. This includes VIP patrols, official motorcades as well. They should set the best examples. Defiance of traffic laws and waving other users off their path are unacceptable options.

Three-wheelers, motor bikes and vans seem to believe that overtaking on the left - even when a left turn signal is clear - is permissible. They need to be firmly disabused of this notion.

Lane discipline is non-existent. Stopping offenders and educating them on the need for observance would be a first step.

Instead of harassing everyone to undergo a needless and expensive annual emission tests, belchers of heavy smoke (especially buses, school vans and even police jeeps) are so obvious and cry out for selective compulsion to undergo the tests.

The right hand rule at roundabouts rather than the current rude and intimidatory mayhem, will help every body and is easy to supervise and enforce. When all learn, policemen at every city roundabout will no longer be necessary.

The "drink and drive " rule specifies "driving under the influence" hence sniffing into the face of nearly every night driver is nonsensical! Obviously erratic drunks are not difficult to spot.

The night lighting on even city roads must be about the worst in the world. Surely, a little attention by electrical engineers or even intelligent laymen will show inexpensive ways to improve the situation. Obstructions, potholes and pedestrians in dark clothes are now nearly invisible.

"Prowl cars" rather than stationary policemen are the most effective and prompt detectors. A few weeks on intensive patrolling and unrelenting docking offenders will soon reduce the need.

Ironically, it seems that the larger the heavy vehicles - even containers - the more diminutive the driver. Cycllsts without lights, reflectors and road discipllne are too common and unmindful of the terrible risks they run.

Selective attention to private buses, three-wheeler drivers and motor cyclists for reckless and insensitive behaviour are important. If patrolmen watch the many roadside bars at any time of the day, their clientele of three-wheeler and motor bike riders gulping their "Quick ones" will show who needs to be followed and booked for reckless driving.

These basic and inexpensive steps simply cannot be ignored any longer.





The hegemonic Christian Culture

January 29, 2013, 5:27 pm

by Nalin de Silva

Obama for his involvement with al Qaeda. As many people in Sri Lanka as well as in Australia probably have not seen it I quote from the media release of the Ctizens Electoral Council of Australia issued on 15th January 2013. "The revelations that continue to emerge from the clearing smoke of the 11 September, 2012 terrorist attack on the US Consulate in Benghazi, Libya add to a mounting pile of evidence that President Barack Obama and his British and French cohorts armed and supported the very al-Qaeda-linked terrorists who killed US Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other diplomatic personnel in that attack.

Mr. Annesley de Silva writing to the editor on 25th January 2013 says he read with amusement what I wrote to the Midweek Review on 23rd January on 'Defending the Constitution'. He may be amused writing from Australia when we poor Sinhala Buddhists refer to the multiculturalism practised in the US, but we who have suffered for more than five hundred years under western Christian modernity have no alternative but to reveal the hypocrisy of western Christian culture. The Anglo Saxon variety of the Judaic Christian culture is the dominant culture not only in the US, Australia and other such countries but also in the rest of the world, and the so-called intellectuals of this particular culture who are responsible for creating knowledge have come out with concepts such as multiculturalism in order to mislead the people, especially those who have had an imitating western Christian education. The education given in schools and universities is nothing but a western Christian education whether it is in Astronomy or Zoology. All that I wanted to demonstrate in my article was that that the western countries practice multiculturalism in a weak sense while they want us to have multiculturalism in the strong sense, and that Obama's speech at the inauguration is rhetoric and hypocrisy as usual.

I have been using the concepts of multiculturalism in a weak sense and in a strong sense for years but the pundits and Brahmins refuse to have even a discussion of the concepts. Almost All countries in the world are multicultural in the sense that there are two or more cultures practised. However these cultures are not treated equally in the western world, as some variety of the Judaic Christian culture is the dominant culture in all of these countries. Obama at the inauguration showed what the dominant culture of the US is by ignoring all the cultures other than the dominant culture. This is multiculturalism in the weak sense where one culture is the dominant culture without any semblance of equality as regards to the cultures. Multiculturalism in the strong sense on the other hand demands equality of all the cultures practiced in a country, thus in a world dominated by western Christian culture making that culture effectively the predominant culture. Very often the significant culture in a country is denied its due place. The so-called western intellectuals would come out with theories and even postgraduate students from the western countries are given a recognition very much beyond their capabilities and are allowed to contribute regularly to national newspapers. How many of our students who go to western countries for postgraduate studies are given the opportunity to contribute to the national newspapers in those countries. All the western countries are Christian in culture but the moment we say that the significant culture in this country is Sinhala Buddhist almost all the so-called intellectuals including some Sinhalas would object to it on the grounds that all cultures are equal, and that the country is secular.

Obama's speech on equality of women and the rest is nothing but rhetoric and there is a political party though small in Australia that has come out with a statement suggesting impeachment of

Obama for his involvement with al Qaeda. As many people in Sri Lanka as well as in Australia probably have not seen it I quote from the media release of the Ctizens Electoral Council of Australia issued on 15th January 2013. "The revelations that continue to emerge from the clearing smoke of the 11 September, 2012 terrorist attack on the US Consulate in Benghazi, Libya add to a mounting pile of evidence that President Barack Obama and his British and French cohorts armed and supported the very al-Qaeda-linked terrorists who killed US Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other diplomatic personnel in that attack. Obama's clandestine alliance with the al-Qaeda terrorist network is grounds for the US Congress to initiate impeachment proceedings against him."

Imagine Mahinda Rajapaksa getting involved in actions similar to that by Obama and his friends. Obama in his speech used the phrase "We the people" that is found in the American Constitution as if the people are taken into consideration. The French Revolution as well as the American revolution were part of the of the defeat of the Medieval European Catholic culture with the triumph of western Christian culture and people mentioned by Obama or in Les Miserables by Victor Hugo have no meaning then as well as at present. In Sri Lanka some people are waiting for the people to rise, but the failure of the Academic and Hulftsdorp springs has demonstrated that the Brahmins have no leader and hence no future, in spite of the support by the Christian west.





Wesley raring to go

January 29, 2013, 12:00 pm

By Reemus Fernando

Equipped with a strong spin department and a batting line-up that runs deep, Wesley College is one of the stronger First XI cricket teams taking part in the ongoing Inter School Under-19 cricket tournament. But the team which had shown attributes of a champion outfit from the days when they used to play for the Under-13 are yet to perform to their full potential, after rain hampered most of their third term encounters.

The team, captained by coloursman Sachin Jayawardena commenced the season in terrific fashion reducing Division I counterparts Moratu Vidyalaya to mere onlookers (132 and 54 all out), recording an innings win, but to date they have featured in only four other drawn matches. Of them, two matches did not last the full distance due to rain and wet ground conditions, at Campbell Park.

"Rain and wet conditions were a disappointment. But we are prepared to do well at future matches," Sachin Jayawardena told 'The Island' as his team trained at Campbell Park.

The current First XI team features many from the all island championship winning Under-13 team of 2008, and players who have featured in the final stage matches of the all island Under-15 and Under-17 tournaments during the past several years.

For such an experienced team, what is the target of the season? "In fact, we had targeted at least eight outright victories. We have many matches to go. We have played only five matches so far," said Jayawardena.

Jayawardena has three other coloursmen in his team with Ashail Kariyawasam, Tharindu Karunaratne and Baasith Muzzammil shouldering good chunk of bowling duties.

In their win against Moratu Vidyalaya, left arm spinners Jayawardena and Muzzammil were the main wicket takers, sharing a match bag of 15 wickets. Muzzammil reduced their opponents to 54 runs in the second innings with a seven wicket haul, which included a hat-trick, while Jayawardena was the pick of the bowlers in the first innings with a five wicket haul.

Although they could not repeat such a moment against four other teams, their bowlers did well against Trinity, restricting the defending champions to 186 runs, in a rain curtailed match, which ended in a no-decision. The only occasion an opposing team really took on their bowling was when the Thomians amassed 300 runs for six wickets in the Mahadevan Sathasivam Trophy encounter.

They have a long batting line-up with many showing guts against adversity. They were forced to follow on in their match against the Thomians, but the seniors including Muzzammil, Kariyawasam and Migara Wickramasinghe made valuable runs to force a draw. However, no one has come up with a big score during their last five matches (match against Ananda it was limited to 34 overs. Only Ananda batted).

This season Wesleyites are coached by former captain (1963) Milroy Muthuveloe, while Nimal de Silva is the Master in Charge of cricket.

With a number of important traditional matches and tournament matches coming up and several postponed matches to be rescheduled, Wesley is heading for a really busy phase.





Honduras names team to face the US on Feb. 6

January 29, 2013, 8:46 pm

TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras (AP) — Honduras coach Luis Suarez on Monday named Wigan pair Maynor Figueroa and Roger Espinoza in his squad for the World Cup qualifier against the United States on Feb. 6 in San Pedro Sula.

Espinoza became a U.S. citizen in 2008 but opted to play for Honduras at the London Olympics.

Officials of the Honduran football federation said the afternoon leading up to the match will be a national holiday, boosting attendance and interest.

The match is in the first round of a home-and-away round-robin series among six countries in the CONCACAF region. Jamaica, Honduras, Mexico, Panama, Costa Rica and the United States are in the hexagonal series with the top three teams qualifying automatically for the 2014 World Cup in Brazil. The fourth-place team faces an intercontinental playoff against the Oceania winners to qualify.





SF not satisfied with Polls Chief's explanation

*Says since ex-CJ still thinks she is CJ she is not ready to do politics

January 29, 2013, 10:07 pm

War winning Army Commander and Leader of the Democratic National Alliance Gen. Sarath Fonseka, who met Elections Commissioner Mahinda Deshapriya yesterday, to discuss the stock of marked ballot papers from the last presidential election on the main road at Kalagedihena recently, said he was not satisfied with the explanation trotted out by the polls chief.

The DNA Leader said that the Commissioner's explanation that it was from a bundle of 500 ballot papers that had accidentally fallen from a lorry, that was transporting counted ballot papers from Nuwara Eliya for destruction, was not plausible.

Gen. Fonseka asked why they waited so long to destroy those ballot papers as their appeal too had been rejected by the Supreme Court by the end of 2010. "Why did they wait so long? We can't believe it. It is a confusing story," he said.

Elections Commissioner Mahinda Deshapriya has already gone on record stating that he accepted the responsibility for the lapse and apologized for it.

The Commissioner has also told the General that he would appoint a committee to probe the DNA leader's complaint.

Gen. Fonseka had also raised the issue of the continuing rejection of the registration of his party by the Elections Department on the basis of minor technicalities, which he termed "unnecessary delays and blocks".

"I asked him if they were there to ensure democracy, why they were not helping to correct those errors? In a democracy these things are not justifiable. He should help to get through those obstacles. We feel there is no justice," the General said.

In reply the Elections Commissioner had told the DNA Leader to submit a fresh application through the Human Rights Commission.

Asked about the rejection of his repeated overture to impeached Chief Justice Dr. Shirani Bandaranayake to join him, he said he invited her to join him to topple the current regime as he felt that she too had suffered an injustice like him, "but since she feels that she is still the CJ, I don't think she is ready to do politics."





Kachcheri fire probe report out next month

January 29, 2013, 9:46 pm

By Franklin R. Satyapalan

The three-member committee, appointed by Minister of Public Administration and Home Affairs W. D. J. Seneviratne recently, to probe the fire that partially destroyed the Colombo District Secretariat (Kachcheri) at Dam Street last November, would submit their finding next month, Secretary to the Ministry Bandara P. Abeyakoon said yesterday.

He said that the committee chaired by Additional Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration, Jagath Chandrasiri and comprising Director Combined Services Aloka Bandara and Director Engineering Services R. A. D. Jayanthi had been tasked to probe whether there were lapses or negligence on the part of anyone.

Abeyakoon said that the committee would especially look into "procedures that should have been followed in locking up the District Secretariat securely and handing over the keys to the Dam Street Police Station. The Committee would submit their recommendations on measures that needed to be taken to prevent a repetition of such destructive situations in the future."

He said that the Minister took action to appoint a high level investigation committee on the basis of the Government Analyst's Department concluding that the fire had been caused intentionally by using inflammable materials.

Based on the Government Analyst's report the Colombo Crime Division (CCD) launched their own investigation and concluded that the fire was an act of sabotage, but have yet to identify the motive or the identity of the perpetrators.









No animosity over confrontation

January 29, 2013, 12:00 pm

by Jesse Hogan

Australian and Sri Lankan players are united in declaring there is no lingering animosity from the heated end to Monday night's Twenty20 match at the MCG.

Australia required four runs from the last delivery to win but Glenn Maxwell, who hit the first two deliveries he faced to the boundary to give the home team a chance at an unlikely victory, was unable to get a third, playing and missing a full delivery outside off-stump by Thisara Perera. The resulting bye gave Sri Lanka a two-run win to cement its No.1 ranking in the shortest form of the game.

The home team's target was reduced from 161 from 20 overs to 122 from 15 overs due to a 46-minute rain delay. Australia was unhappy at how tardy Sri Lanka was in bowling its final five overs, from which it needed to score 62 runs. This peaked when a group of Sri Lankan players held an impromptu conference with Perera before the final delivery, prompting a tirade from Maxwell.

Maxwell later tweeted that Sri Lanka's players had "apologised for going over the top" in their post-match confrontation with he and other Australians, although the batting all-rounder said he too had apologised, rejecting any notion of a dispute with senior Sri Lankan batsman Mahela Jayawardene, a teammate of his at Delhi in the Indian Premier League.

Advertisement

"I have a good friendship with Mahela, and it's gonna stay that way," Maxwell tweeted.

Sri Lanka Twenty20 captain Angelo Mathews defended the lengthy conference with Perera before the last delivery.

"It was a bit nervous. All of the guys got a bit excited. I just wanted to keep it calm and told 'Thisa' [Perera] to go for what his instinct said," he said.

"I thought it was a brilliant over. In a Twenty20, 16 runs in an over is sort of easy for the batting team. I thought he bowled a brilliant last over, considering the fact it was demanding conditions. You couldn't really hold on to the ball – it was not gripping, it was wet, the outfield was wet – so it was not easy."

Mathews dismissed the resulting post-match spat with the Australians, including Maxwell and Matthew Wade, as "just a heat-of-the-moment [incident]."

"Things happen, you exchange a few words. They played hard, we played hard. That's it. After the game we're friends," Mathews said.

Australia captain George Bailey said he was not fully aware of the cause and extent of the spat, given he had been dismissed early in the last over, but agreed there could have been discontent over Sri Lanka's over-rate.

"I think there might have been. I'm sure the umpires were all over that, if that was the case," he said.

"I can't [conclusively explain the cause] because I wasn't out there, but [I suspect] passion. People care about the game and the way they play. That's it.

"We get on very well with this [Sri Lankan] side so . . . I think it's all just heat-of-the-moment stuff. What you're seeing are individuals are teams that are keen to win."

While Sri Lanka seemed reluctant to want to resume playing on Monday night – Mathews and Sri Lanka coach Graham Ford were involved in a lengthy discussion with the umpires during the delay – Mathews insisted the team always wanted to finish the match, despite already being ahead on Duckworth-Lewis calculations.

"The outfield was extremely wet. The bowlers were finding it really hard to grip the ball because it was slipping. But we wanted to get out there on the field because we didn't want to disappoint the crowd that'd turned up in large numbers – especially playing in Melbourne. It's like playing at home because it's the second-largest Sri Lankan community after Sri Lanka," he said.

Bailey said Australia's expensive finish with the ball – it conceded 80 runs from its last seven overs – was pivotal to Sri Lanka's victory.

"It certainly hurt us because we'd been very good up until then. They're contrasting finishes, they way they bowled to us in Sydney and our last four overs. That's probably the gap between the best team in the world in Twenty20 and the seventh-best, or whatever we are."





Calling in the marines

As I said last week, it is easy to become disheartened with the way that things are moving in Sri Lanka. One disappointment follows another, and each is more extraordinary than the last.

The impeachment of the Chief Justice was particularly disturbing. It demonstrated just how little space there is for dissent. Even the mild disturbance created by Shirani Bandaranayake when she ruled that the Divi Neguma bill had to be referred to the provincial councils or passed with a two thirds majority was intolerable to the administration. She had to go. It didn't matter that there was no evidence of actual wrongdoing on her part. She was removed on the grounds that she might try to cover up the corruption of her husband, which is what Mahinda Rajapaksa claims to have done himself!

Since very few of us are willing to agree with everything that the Government says all of the time, it was appalling to see the lengths to which it is ready to go to impose its will.

No doubt that was the objective of the exercise.

Our distress was compounded by the failure of the Opposition under Ranil Wickremesinghe, who appeared to be far too busy plotting his next move against Sajith Premadasa to bother with something as mundane as the independence of the judiciary. Having successfully ousted his rival from the deputy leadership of the party – whether temporarily or permanently remains to be seen – he finally managed to pen an article on the impeachment for the Sunday Times this week, but readers may not have had the stamina to get past the rather laborious exposition of his knowledge of the history of English country houses and meetings of the Commonwealth to locate his point.

Once again, the widespread information campaign that was so badly needed to counter the propaganda put about by the Government has been left to others.

Worse, by focusing our attention on the Commonwealth and the sanctions that it may impose on Sri Lanka as a result of the impeachment, the UNP leader is pushing us into the same old trap of 'internationalising' what must be a national struggle.

Honestly, who cares about the Commonwealth?

If Ranil Wickremesinghe tries very hard, it may decide to move the 2013 Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting away from Sri Lanka. But what use is that? I don't believe that Mahinda Rajapaksa would be in the slightest bit upset.

Quite the reverse, he is at his most comfortable when under fire from abroad.

No doubt the Government is totally hypocritical when it calls people traitors for taking their problems to international fora. We all know that Mahinda Rajapaksa did the same thing in the late 1980s, when the UNP administration was butchering Sinhalese youth.

It is also wrong. There is nothing traitorous in informing the world about what is happening in Sri Lanka.

It can even be useful in some circumstances.

I don't believe that it had any impact on the anti-JVP campaign. The architects were either convinced that Sri Lankans would never prosecute them for their excesses or too desperate to care about what might happen once it was all over. On the whole, they were right – not morally but factually. If they were punished, it was almost exclusively by extra-judicial means.

Even today, as the JVP calls for an inquiry into the discovery of a mass grave from that era in Matale, there is little chance of it being granted and no chance whatsoever of that resulting in jail time for the politicians who ordered such activities.

The JVP will not push on the issue, for to do so would be to remind people of its own role in the slaughter.

But imagine what would happen if it did. Imagine it calling on the international community to investigate, as many people are doing today with regard to the deaths of Tamils in the Government's war against the LTTE. Would justice be done?

No!

Even after the passage of more than twenty years, and with an SLFP-led coalition in power, there is nothing the international community could do about it. Why? Because the international community doesn't get to vote in elections in Sri Lanka!

It is the opinions of Sri Lankans that matter to Mahinda Rajapaksa. So long as they aren't bothered about the mass grave in Matale, he won't be either. Likewise, so long as they don't want an investigation into the anti-LTTE campaign, even Ranil Wickremesinghe wouldn't do it.

The international community has zero moral authority, as everybody in Sri Lanka is very well aware.

We know that other countries have dirty wars of their own. Indeed, if we needed reminding that some things remain the same even after the replacement of George Bush by Nobel Peace Prize winning Barack Obama at the top of the world's greatest democracy, 'Dirty Wars' is the name of a documentary that premièred at the Sundance Festival in Utah last week.

Sri Lankans love to blame the Western media for focusing on abuses in this country while remaining silent about what their own governments get up to, but this is rather myopic. Everything we know about the crimes of Western nations has been brought to our attention by Western journalists.

According to an interview with the producers, the documentary looks at how the War on Terror, which started overtly in Afghanistan and Iraq, has now become covert. We know everything there is to know about the night raid that killed Osama bin Laden, which has even been made into a rather captivating Hollywood film, but there were 30,000 other night raids in Afghanistan that year. Nobody talks about them. The documentary recounts the story of one in which an elite squad of American soldiers killed a senior policeman and his family while they were in the middle of a birthday party, and tried to cover it up. While the survivors watched, they dug the bullets out of the bodies, then announced to the world that they had stumbled onto the aftermath of an honour killing.

How very honourable!

The American 'kill list', which had only seven names on it after 9/11, now includes thousands. That is thousands of people that Barack Obama has said that it is perfectly acceptable to murder, never mind whether they are holding up white flags.

It also talks of the American drone programme, which allows them to do so without getting close enough to see a white flag. Indeed, George Bush established a policy, which Barack Obama has endorsed, of dropping bombs on people even when they aren't on the 'kill list'. In certain areas of Pakistan and Yemen – countries with which the United States is not at war – all young men are assumed to be terrorists and can be killed as and when convenient.

This is also top secret. Barack Obama personally intervened to stop the Yemeni government releasing a local journalist who photographed the remnants of American cruise missiles that he says regularly kill civilians.

American funded warlords in Somalia are shown on camera saying in a completely matter-of-fact manner that they execute foreign prisoners on the battlefield.

The War on Terror goes on in another equally repugnant form.

Given this well known background, if the international community tried to use its economic or other power to force prosecutions in Sri Lanka, the public would rally behind the Government, and Mahinda Rajapaksa is very good at encouraging such a response.

There really is no short cut.

To succeed in the pursuit of justice, it is the minds of Sri Lankans that have to be changed. If they start to want prosecutions, it will happen.

It is a national struggle, and trying to involve the international community can only make it harder.

Likewise, 'internationalising' the effort to restore the independence of the judiciary is also going to create more problems than it solves.

Mahinda Rajapaksa showed how uninterested he is in the opinion of the international community by announcing the impeachment of the Chief Justice just days before Sri Lanka faced its Universal Periodic Review at the United Nations Human Rights Council in Geneva.

Deceiving ourselves may make us feel better, at least for a while, but it isn't going to result in any actual change.

Kath Noble's column may be accessed online at http://kathnoble.wordpress.com/. She may be contacted at kathnoble99@gmail.com.





Another amendment to UNP constitution?

January 30, 2013, 7:38 am

by Zacki Jabbar

With the re-appointment of Sajith Premadasa as Deputy Leader of the UNP, yet to be sorted out, the party said yesterday that any move to decentralise the functions of office bearers would require a constitutional amendment.

UNP General Secretary Tissa Attanayake said that it was only the annual Convention that could approve changes to the Constitution. Since it was already over, a Special Convention would have to be summoned to consider any new suggestions.

Amidst widespread speculation that three deputy leaders are to be appointed to oversee different zones, he said that if and when such a proposal was mooted, it would have to first be placed before the Working Committee (WC), which was scheduled to meet only next month.

At last weeks gathering of the newly elected office bearers for this year, UNP leader Ranil Wickremesinghe had stressed that they will have to work as a team and not according to the agendas of individuals.

Pointing out that that difficulties had arisen in the past since certain members had repeatedly ignored the party whip's directives, he had called for a new approach if the UNP was to re-capture power.

Wickremesinghe had also observed that the deputy's role was to help the leader in his duties, but Sajith had failed in that respect. At a meeting between the two last week, Sajith had agreed to fall in line, but any further progress on the issue was likely only at the next WC meeting, informed sources said.





Ranil - "No ride with Rajapaksa"

January 29, 2013, 8:13 pm

In an article in the Sunday Times of January 27, Ranil Wickeremesinghe had said that "It is time for President Rajapaksa and his government to think of the country and its people: not only of themselves and their power ride. We have no wish to ride with him in this Lamborghini to disaster"

Who can expect Ranil or his UNP who did not "think of the country and its people" and who did "have no wish to ride with Rajapaksa" when Rajapaksa was going to triumph over the 30 years disaster of terrorism, to "have any wish to ride with him" now.





HR vetting for Lankan military to undergo US training

January 29, 2013, 9:56 pm

by Lynn Ockersz

All security forces personnel opting for military training programmes in the US are expected to undergo 'human rights vetting' by the US defense authorities. Those against whom 'credible reports of human rights violations' have been filed would not be in a position to obtain such training, the local media were told on Monday, at a 'round table' discussion with a group of visiting top US government officials.

The officials were responding to a query by the media as to what the factual position was with regard to allegations in top local defense circles, quoted in some sections of the media, that some Lankan security personnel, who had applied for military training in the US, were not being granted this facility by the US authorities. US Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for South and Southeast Asia Vikram Singh said that in all training programmes of a military or educational nature, provided by the US for applicants for these programmes from around the world, a human rights component is present and that the relevant applicants are not expected to be found wanting in the upholding of human rights norms.

Singh underlined the need for the application of human rights accountability mechanisms for those opting for US military training. He clarified that his government was not being judgmental by insisting on the maintenance of human rights standards by security personnel but, in Sri Lanka's case, was seeking to promote 'a forward-looking engagement, in all relevant aspects.' Rather than the US telling Sri Lanka to do this or that what the US was keen on finding out was, 'what we could do together.'

He added that it was only a minuscule number of personnel who failed to meet the standards in question and that ongoing training and educational programmes involving Lankan personnel, in the main, were 'very good.' Singh explained that the visiting US delegation's talks with Defense Secretary Gotabhaya Rajapaksa were very cordial and that greater military cooperation between the US and Sri Lanka depended on progress being made by Sri Lanka in the implementation of the LLRC recommendations.

When asked whether the US delegation sees any substantial progress in the implementation of the LLRC recommendations by the Lankan state, Deputy Assistant Secretary of State in the Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labour Jane Zimmerman said that they 'certainly see some progress, particularly in the areas of infrastructure development and the rehabilitation of former LTTE combatants, for instance', but that 'a lot more work 'remains to be done. For example, 'there are families still waiting for missing loved ones' and 'disappeared persons' to be accounted for. 'We would very much like to see accelerated implementation of the LLRC', Zimmerman said.

'Some elements of the LLRC are excellent. Some elements may be harder to implement than other, such as, those pertaining to accountability on human rights violations, but reconciliation and accountability must go together and we would like to see progress on the commitments made by the state in relation to accountability and other vital issues ', she explained.

'The US cares very much about Sri Lanka, ours is a longstanding tie. We will still be here after March', Zimmerman quipped.

Deputy Assistant Secretary James R. Moore said, among other things, that in all the delegation's meetings with Lankan state personnel they discussed Sri Lanka's efforts to implement its Lessons Learnt and Reconciliation Commission recommendations and National Action Plan and the 'importance of accelerated progress to achieving lasting reconciliation and a durable peace.' He said that the "Key to this will be transparent governance, as well as following through with a process of accountability for events at the end of the war, including civilian casualties and credible allegations of human rights violations." He said that the delegation had also discussed the importance of a vibrant civil society, an independent judiciary, a free and independent media and full respect for human rights.

Moore went on to say that the delegation 'welcomes the government's intent to have Northern Provincial Council elections in September and we encourage a resumption of talks between the TNA and the government.'





Lawyers visiting suspects in police custody: A response

This is an article written earlier on the above subject. It is repeated now since the 48-hour custody rule has now been implemented.

The Police have asked for extended time, from 24 to 48 hours, to keep suspects in police custody, claiming it is for law and order.

According to media reports, the Bar Association has also endorsed the police request for this extended time. Lawyers too, have approved this move, also in the name of law and order. The concurrence here of Police and Lawyers is out of the ordinary. The support extended by lawyers is intriguing.

Lawyers have forever been apprehensive of the violation of rights of suspects in police custody. Yet, lawyers welcome the extended period for police to keep suspects in custody and it appears they are not anxious of the prospect of more and more violation of rights of suspects from longer hours in police custody. Thus there is unwavering support of lawyers to the police proposal for extra time.

Is there a manoeuvre, then, through this open hearted welcome of a dubious proposition? Access to suspects in police custody, is at the police station. The 24 hours generally does not give sufficient time to lawyers at the police station, if arrest had been made hours earlier in the jungle or field. Another 24 hours would be more convenient to both lawyers and police for different reasons. Access is the lawyers concern, irrespective of law and order. Police seeking extra custodial time is for law and order. The two make strange bed fellows.

Duty attorneys at police stations will be needed in day/night shifts!

Violation of rights of suspects in police custody is yet the stated anxious concern of lawyers. This is a laudable endeavour. Presumably, then, lawyers with more access to suspects in police custody would effectively guard against violation of rights by police. Safeguard of rights is now all the more assured. Doubtless this claim would ensure against violation of rights, against torture, duress, threat and inducement or any other untoward.

The logical end should then follow. Statements of suspects made in such assured circumstances, whether admissions or confessions, could be admissible in law. That aspect will not attract the lawyers. That was perhaps not the intent of lawyers.

The Ministry of Justice and law reform agencies should therefore consider this added proposition. These authorities need to take cognizance of the fact that access by lawyers to suspects in police custody has a multiple therapeutic effect; on the police that their conduct would be restrained, on suspects that they would thus be encouraged to confess their guilt, and the lawyers to have served well their avowed objective of law and order.

In fact, however, calls for access by lawyers into the vitals of the police function have been a matter of recent experience. One recalls, only a few weeks before, a parallel suggestion made through Lessons Learnt and Reconciliation Commission (LLRC) that lawyers advise and guide police investigation at police stations. Access is implicit. Here is an unabashed urge by law professionals to involve themselves somehow in the police function. The counter argument was made by the author- Sunday Island 29th April 2012 p 7- to which there is yet no response. Another media report spoke of "Lawyers' rights at Police stations to be gazetted". The claim for lawyers' access to suspect in police custody is, here, elevated to a matter of right. Such a right is not granted, either under the Constitution or the Code of Criminal Procedure. Any such right is, by section 260 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Code, with the accused or the aggrieved party, not with the attorney-at-law. Even the European Union (EU) sought to trade off grant of lawyer's access to suspects in police custody as a matter of right against the grant of GSP+ allowance by the EU for import of shirts and blouses, pant and socks, etc. from Sri Lanka!

A curious thread thus runs through these numerous calls for greater involvement of lawyers in the police function. These initiatives have not been restrained by the fact, in law, that criminal investigation by police is distinct, discreet and detached from the function of other agencies or sub-agencies. Such disconnection of the criminal process is at least to ensure against outside influence which can hinder and delay the investigations. The criminal law does not envisage interference in the criminal process. Legal education, either, in this country, has not caught up with the fact that, by law, arrest and custody of suspects is but a step in the investigation. In the UK, the matter of arrest belongs primarily to criminal procedure at investigation- Glanville Williams, 'Textbook on Criminal Law' 2nd ed. 1983 p. 491 Steven & Sons London.

Significantly, there is no problem of this nature from outside involvement in police investigation, neither from access to suspects in the custody of police, in these other jurisdictions. The problem is then one of local instinct. Such homely knack is not however inborn. The world over is stretching out over and across boundaries in current times, a la mode R2P or with other dressing.

The reason for these calls for lawyers' involvement in police investigation in this country is therefore not clear. They merit scrutiny. Else they can help serve a lateral purpose.













Quash the ban, screen the film

January 29, 2013, 5:25 pm

The delay in overturning the unjustifiable ban on Kamal Haasan's Vishwaroopam is beginning to appear every bit as unjustifiable. It is difficult to fathom the rationale behind the Madras High Court deferring its decision on the film's screening. Earlier, the court had ruled the film cannot be shown in Tamil Nadu until January 28, by which time the judge hearing the case would see it for himself. Now that the special screening has been held, what basis can there possibly be for deferring the decision once again and asking Kamal Haasan to "negotiate the matter and sort the issue out amicably"? Courts exist principally to dispense justice, not to hand out advice which, in this case, seems entirely gratuitous. Of course, there have been occasions when the judiciary has adopted a pragmatic, even reconciliatory, approach, one that attempts to find a common ground between adversarial parties; the gulf between formalism and actual judicial practice is a little wider than most people assume. But in this case, the court has not even attempted to resolve the dispute. It has simply thrown the ball back at Kamal Haasan, asking him to find a way out of a mess that was not his making. In doing so, it has risked the unfortunate perception that it is reluctant to take a hard and forthright decision based on law.

There should have been no place for such temporising given the clear judicial precedents in such cases. It was only two years ago that the Supreme Court set aside the two-month ban on the Hindi film Aarakshan on the ground that States cannot proscribe films that have been cleared by the Central Board of Film Certification on the mere apprehension that screening them may cause a law and order problem. As we pointed out recently ("Responsibility To Protect," January 25, 2013), the landmark case that set the tone for such judgments was S. Rangarajan v/s P. Jagajivan Ram, where the Supreme Court held that "freedom of expression cannot be suppressed on account of threat of demonstrations and processions and threat of violence." It is true there have been regrettable aberrations to a judicial approach that has strongly refused to cower before blackmail and intimidation. Only recently, the Supreme Court dismissed a petition challenging the Tamil Nadu government's ban on the release of the film DAM 999. The ban on Vishwaroopam must be quashed and the police directed to provide adequate protection to theatres and moviegoers. While it is the right of the fringe Muslim groups who are offended, seemingly or otherwise, to protest against the film, any demonstration should be staged only peacefully. Anyone who threatens or takes recourse to violence deserves to be dealt with strictly and punitively.





Bhutan and the importance of regional cooperation

Himalayan friend

January 29, 2013, 8:05 pm

By Salman Haidar

Republic Day brought the King of Bhutan to New Delhi as Chief Guest at the traditional celebrations. His presence underlined the high value New Delhi places on its ties with this Himalayan neighbour. In many ways, this is an exemplary relationship. Modern Bhutan's development story was encouraged and underwritten by Jawaharlal Nehru, and since that beginning Bhutan has advanced steadily. It has charted its own course and successfully worked out its individual style of development. A striking feature of its priorities is the importance attached to environmental factors. From early days, when other parts of the world, including neighbouring India, were doing what they could to exploit nature with little regard for the consequences, Bhutan was guided by the need to conserve and to protect. Its pristine forests were harvested only to sustainable limits, its many rivers and streams remained clean, and it became a byword for environmentally sensitive development.

This did not mean that it was forced to lag behind others: on the contrary, intelligent utilization of its natural endowment enabled it to advance even faster than comparable mountain regions nearby. Its water resources have been harnessed for the production of electricity which is used both for development at home and for sale to the ever-hungry Indian market. No major dams and diversion canals have been permitted, such as those that have become controversial elsewhere in the Himalayan region. Bhutan has chosen run-of-the-river schemes with minimum environmental impact, and the successful running of these enterprises has transformed the lives of its people. Per capita income in Bhutan is second in the SAARC region only to that of tourism-driven Maldives, ahead of India and all the others. It is a proud achievement.

Even more impressive is the simultaneous political transformation that has taken place. Where other hereditary rulers have laboured to cling to power, Bhutan's monarchy has systematically divested itself of authority and has successfully reconstituted the country as a parliamentary democracy. That the pressure for change came not from below but from the monarch himself adds to the magnitude of the achievement. Through this entire period of enormous change, relations between India and Bhutan have remained close and each side has been able to respond to the imperative requirements of the other. The King's presence at the Republic Day celebrations is an affirmation of this happy state of affairs.

Elsewhere in the region, relations between India and its neighbours present a rather different picture. Ties with Pakistan remain fraught, as was to be seen in the recent flare-up on the LOC, and in present circumstances there can be little expectation of real progress. Dialogue between the two countries has been going on for several years to no great effect, and only mild encouragement can be taken from the fact that, despite the recent setback, both have decided to remain engaged and keep trying for at least a modicum of forward movement. Ties with Pakistan have a particular history and are uneasy at the best of times, but there seems no special reason for the current stasis, or even downturn, elsewhere.

Nepal is another Himalayan country with enormous hydro-electric potential that could both transform its development prospects at home and become an indispensable source of power supply for its neighbour India. There have been a number of serious efforts in this direction, and fresh efforts are in train, but despite occasional hopeful signs no substantial mutually beneficial projects have actually been built. Meanwhile, Nepal has to look to India for occasional power supplies to meet its needs. Both countries have been losers from their inability to reach satisfactory agreement in this crucial sector.

Nor is there any real reason why ties with Bangladesh should be in the doldrums. Not so long ago, when Prime Minister Manmohan Singh visited Dhaka, it seemed that a new level of relations was on the verge of being achieved. However, this was stymied by West Bengal which felt its concerns had not been fully addressed. Since then, little progress has been made in trying to eliminate differences and bring back the promise in the relationship. With Sri Lanka there are some specific problems that have complicated bilateral ties and have become difficult to address owing to their bearing on internal Indian affairs; but nevertheless these issues cannot be left unattended. And what can be said of relations with Maldives, tiny and historically friendly to India, where a commercial dispute involving an Indian company has become a real impediment to good neighbourly relations.

While misunderstandings and disputes proliferate, a broader, more inclusive vision for the future of South Asia has also been finding expression. Only a few days ago the Kathmandu-based journal, Himal, by now well established as the foremost journal of South Asian opinion, re-launched itself as a new look quarterly. There are many thoughtful articles in the journal from a notable group of authors, and what comes through clearly is the high expectations of India among its neighbours. Whether it is a matter of civilisational values, or democratic practice, or economic progress, India's active engagement in South Asia affairs is indispensable. While acknowledging this reality, several of the contributors express scepticism about India's willingness to accept the role that others would wish it to take. Despite the many shared values among the countries of South Asia, they are divided into national entities that do not always have much to do with each other. Transcending these divisions and reaffirming the underlying unity of the region is what has been a central purpose of SAARC and to give substance to this aspiration is the major regional challenge.

For India, it is desirable to see regional processes from a further point of view. In the last few years, India has emerged as an increasingly weighty factor in Asia-wide strategic considerations. Its ineluctable interests drive it to closer engagement in areas more distant than the immediate neighbourhood alone, and commercial, maritime, economic, defence and other such considerations drive it ever further afield. Central and South-east Asia are no longer remote regions and the intensity of India's association with them is on the increase. Within these regions, too, there is the sense that India has much to contribute, so enhanced Indian interest in their affairs is welcomed. This more active role does not fit well with the multiplicity of divisive issues between India and its immediate neighbours. Tranquil and cooperative relations with them would open the way to greater regional cooperation and facilitate a more active diplomacy for India. Thus building the kind of open, accessible South Asia advocated by Himal and others is both good in itself and can be regarded as a step towards the larger international role that India must now adopt.





Cargo vessels, containers handled at ports fall

January 29, 2013, 8:28 pm

Ship arrivals and the number containers handled at the country's ports have fallen last year, latest data released by the Central Bank on Monday (28) showed, as the global economy struggled to find its way.

Cargo vessels calling on Sri Lanka fell 4.2 percent year-on-year to 3,795 during the period January to November 2012 while the total number of containers handled fell 1.3 percent year-on-year to 3,832,815 TEUs (twenty-foot equivalent units).

The number of transshipment containers handled, for trade originating from India, fell 1.5 percent year-on-year to 2,805,343 TEUs.

The total number of containers pertaining to domestic trade fell 1.8 percent year-on-year to 932,582 TEUs.





Metro- Colombo Urban Development:

January 29, 2013, 8:34 pm

By Ravi Ladduwahetty

The government has approved eight World Bank funded projects worth Rs. 2 billion under the metro- Colombo Urban Development Project as a part of a project which has 70 components where the total project value is Rs. 29 billion spread over five years.

The projects just started are 7 months old and the eight packages procured or under tendering are : the Town Hall, Walkability, Public Conveniences, Aluth Mawatha Culvert, Galle Road and Duplication Road Rehabilitation, gabion protection for a section of East Beira Lake.

World Bank's Senior Urban Specialist Rosanna Nitti told journalists that the selection of investments for other project local authorities were under finalization and that Hydraulic Models for macro and micro drainage updated and detailed design of flood structures to be started soon.

She also explained that the Colombo Metropolitan Region produced almost 50% percent of GDP and 80% percent of industrial value added in production and that Sri Lanka needed to tap the competitive advantages of the Colombo Metropolitan Region (CMR) to spearhead and accelerate growth.

"The GoSL has launched an ambitious program of economic and physical regeneration for metropolitan Colombo in a bid to transform it into a modern, world-class capital and donors were asked to finance specific elements to contribute to the transformation of Colombo. The World Bank took a technical role to finance a project to reduce floods in the Colombo basin, she said

Defence and Urban Development Ministry's Additional Secretary ( Technical) Rohan Seneviratne said that there were three components of the World Bank funded projects for the Metro- Colombo Urban Development Project. They were the flood and drainage management which is aimed to address the urgent issues of urban flooding which paralyses the economy of the region with high socio- economic costs, secondly, the urban development and infrastructure rehabilitation for local authorities which includes the Colombo Municipal Council, the Dehiwela- Mt Lavinia Municipal Council and the Sri Jayawardenapura Municipal Council and the third component was the implementation support.

The second component will assist these authorities to rehabilitate their drainage infrastructure and urban roads, implement selected demonstration urban improvements investments and improve solid waste collection.

The third component is the implementation support which includes the monitoring and implementation , compliance with environmental safeguards and appropriating, he said.





CMC PHD orders closure of Indian restaurant

January 29, 2013, 10:18 pm

By Dilanthi Jayamanne

The Public Health Department of the Colombo Municipal Council (PHD CMC) said it had to shut down an Indian restaurant along the Wellawatta- Kollupitya (Marine Drive) route during their inspections on Monday (28) evening.

PHD chief Dr. Pradeep Kariyawasam said yesterday that the unhygienic conditions of the kitchen, which was the basement of the building, was the main reason for the closure order.

Dr. Kariyawasam said they had inspected 18 eateries during raids and found that at least ten of them were functioning without licenses. Some of them were those which were on the verge of being demolished for city development. He said that the establishments had failed to get their licenses for last year as well. They maintained that they were in operation till they were instructed to vacate the buildings.

Several food, water, spice and colouring samples were taken for analysis. Only two eateries maintained hygienic food preparation methods while the remaining places had unhygienic cooking conditions. A majority of them used tube well water for cooking, washing and sanitation. Their refrigerators were equally unclean with cooked and raw food being stored in the same refrigerator.

He said food inspectors and PHIs had destroyed large quantities of 'roti' pieces which were days old. They had been chopped up for kottu roti and been stored since the amounts were in excess.

The PHD had also destroyed over 25 smashed salmon tins which had been purchased for cooking, he added.





Turnover tops Rs. 1.3 bn but All Share down sharply

Blue chips hold their ground

January 29, 2013, 8:30 pm

The Colombo bourse yesterday posted a turnover of Rs.1.35 billion, up from the previous day's Rs.759.6 million, although the All Share Price Index saw a sharp 54.34 point (0.93%) fall while S&P SL20 lost just 1.45 points (0.05%) as a result of blue chips largely holding their ground.

Foreign purchases amounted to Rs. 865.73 million, leading to a net inflow of Rs. 830.64 million.

Brokers said that turnover was supported by crossings in JKH, Sampath and LOLC with Sampath seeing 1.4 million shares crossed in five parcels – three at Rs.218.50 and two at Rs.220 in deals worth Rs.306.9 million.

"Turnover was excellent but the market was down mainly on profit taking on speculative shares," a broker said.

"The ASPI ended sharply lower, mainly on the back of strong declines in several large cap counters. Turnover crossed the Rs. 1bn mark, supported by block trades on JKH, SAMP, and LOLC, which accounted for over 60% of turnover," John Keells Stockbrokers said.

One hundred and sixty two losers sharply outpaced 43 gainers while 47 counters closed flat with brokers saying that there were few blue chips among the losers.

JKH saw 1.2 million shares crossed, all at a price of Rs.226, contributing Rs.271.2 million to turnover while LOLC saw 3.5 million shares crossed in two parcels at Rs.72.50 in deals worth Rs.253.8 million.

Brokers said that Sampath and JKH also saw volume on the trading floor with Sampath closing Rs.5.80 up at Rs.220 on nearly 0.6 million shares done between Rs.212.50 and Rs.221.80 contributing Rs.121.2 million to turnover.

JKH closed one rupee up at Rs.226 on the floor with over 0.5 million shares traded between Rs.224.60 and Rs.226 contributing Rs.120 million to turnover.

Brokers said there was buying interest in blue chips with CT Holdings closing Rs.5.40 up at Rs.145 on 0.1 million shares done between Rs.139 and Rs.145 generating a business volume of Rs.15 million.

LOLC was another gainer among the most traded stocks closing Rs.2.30 up at Rs.69.90 on nearly 0.2 million shares done between Rs.67.70 and Rs.70.50.

Commercial Bank which had announced a second interim dividend of Re.1 per voting and non-voting share for 2012 closed 20 cents down at Rs.104.80 on 68,209 shares. The stock will trade XD from Feb. 7 with payment on Feb. 18.

Most traded losers included Royal Ceramics, down Rs.2.90 to close at Rs.99.10 on nearly 0.2 million shares, ERI down 40 cents to close at Rs.17.60 on over 0.8 million shares, Colombo Fort Land and Buildings down Rs.1.60 to close at Rs.32.40 on 0.3 million shares and Expolanka down 10 cents to close at Rs.6.80 on nearly 1.2 million shares. Lanka Hospitals also lost 20 cents to close at Rs.38.40 on nearly 0.2 million shares.

Vallibel Power Erathna announced an interim tax-free dividend of 25 cents per share for 2012/13, XD from Feb. 8 and with payment on Feb. 19.





BOC holds 'Mega Wasi' final draw

January 29, 2013, 6:23 pm

Bank of Ceylon has introduced "BOC Mega Wasi" promotion to inculcate the habit of savings among Sri Lankans. The final draw of the BOC Mega Wasi promotion took place on the 23rd January at Plaza Area of Bank of Ceylon Head Office, Colombo. BOC Mega Wasi is the largest gift bonanza in the country which provides Rs.165 Million worth of gifts to over 9,800 winners, the bank said.

The winners were selected in the first three quarterly draws conducted in April, July and October in 2012. Up to date a total of 6,225 winners have been rewarded in the previous quarterly draws and 3,600 winners will be eligible to win exciting prizes at Mega Wasi final draw.

The account holders with a minimum balance of Rs 10,000/= for a continuous period of 3 months from 1st October 2012 to 31st December 2012 are qualify to enter the BOC Mega Wasi final draw. Winners are entitled for exciting gifts such as 3 Luxury Japanese cars, 75 sets of Furniture/ Electrical Appliances worth Rs.100,000/= each, 1,500 Cargills gift vouchers worth Rs.15,000/= each, and 2,000 cash prizes at Rs.10,000/= each and 25 Pilgrimage Packages worth Rs.100,000/= each to India (Dambadiva Charika).

The BOC Mega Wasi final draw was held under the patronage of its Chairman Razik Zarook, its Board Directors, its General Manager, D.M. Gunasekara and the Corporate Management of Bank of Ceylon. The BOC Mega Wasi promotion will continue in the year 2013 to encourage the savings habit among Sri Lankans.





Sri Siddhartha Gautama

January 29, 2013, 5:29 pm

by Nanda P Wanasundara

In a pre-screening article the film is said to be "an attempt to chronicle the heart wrenching and mind challenging story that lies as the centerpiece of Buddhist faith". It claims modestly to be an attempt. The film is a success, no doubt about that. Not only will cinema goers of the Buddhist faith appreciate the film and sink deep into it emotionally and religiously, but even film goers of other religions will benefit by seeing a very worthwhile film. It carries English sub titles and thus we presume, very creditably, it is prepared for international screening. We wish all luck to it at various film festivals.

The story

Does it correctly chronicle the life of the Sakyan prince until he renounces his princely life to go forth? It does, tracing incidents and actions as related in the Buddhist scriptures. It cuts out myth like the baby placing his foot on the sage's forehead and does not even show a lotus in the pond in the garden where Queen Maya gives birth. He is an ordinary boy though living in a palace highly protected and expected to be a supreme king, but with one very evident quality: his compassion and his desire for solitude.

He is totally disinterested in the palace dancers and refuses marriage until Yashodara presents herself to him as a prospective bride. He wanted, as he told his step brother Nanda, a wife who combined sister, mother and sympathetic friend and he found the beautiful girl would suit him. She is both radiantly beautiful and projects a personality which is above that of other girls. The prince falls in love with her and their love is depicted as deep and stable so much so that the prince is able later to tell her he must leave her and go forth.

The story veers from what we have heard tell regards his leaving the palace to become an ascetic seeking the truth. What our mothers told us and we read was that he left the palace (supposedly not having made his intention known) on the night of the birth of his child. We got the impression that he was almost stealing away. This is not so in the film and that is a definite plus point, since a person of Siddhartha's integrity and stature would not have sneaked out of home, however honourable the end was.

In the film much precedes his leaving wife and home and the kingdom. He tells his father and step mother. King Suddodhana is gravely grieved but he does not forbid him, though he made every attempt to keep the prince from experiencing sorrow and seeing age, the sick and knowing people die. Prajapathi Gotama is heart- broken but knows the prince needs to go forth. He tells Yashodara long before he leaves her of his need to seek the truth and help all mankind to shorten their samsaric existences of unsatisfactoriness. She wonders aloud how she will bear his leaving her but tells him to leave her when she is asleep, which he does; many days after the birth of Rahula.

Emotional yet intellectual

Is the film heart-wrenching? Most certainly yes. I was in tears almost all through the film with a wonderful break when the young couple is shown so in love and considerate of each other.

But here is the strongest feature of the film, the most commendable. It is not one bit sentimental nor does it strive to wrench your heart. There is no studied pathos in the film. It moves realistically and since the renunciation is so sad and many other scenes like when Prince Siddhartha tends a bird struck by an arrow of Devadaththa's. The film made me have tears all through the film but it was, I believe, an individual reaction. Others may not be so affected as me. Siddhartha the ascetic's starving too causes deep sadness. The script, acting and direction, even cinematography and, of course, the music all combined to work on the viewer's emotions, not solely of sadness but with a lingering, mellowing with admiration sort of reaction caused by the sincerity of the film. The viewer is made to actually live through the incidents. That is great credit to the film.

Was the film mind challenging? Certain Dhamma truths came through by what Siddhartha said and what his guru taught him, and through the words of the three songs, expecially Yashodara's lament in song at the very end that accompanied credit titling and scenes of her renunciation and meditation. To a non- Buddhist, I am sure the film will challenge the mind and intellect. A person not familiar with the story has plenty of thoughts and opinions to think through after seeing the film. We Buddhists too keep mulling over the film.

Buddhist faith

As the reader would surely have discerned, I have taken a sentence off an article about the film and analyzed it against the seen film. The sentence I have been breaking up to judge the film has at its end: " ... the story that lies as the centrepiece of Buddhist faith." That, I feel, is extravagant. At the very start of the film the Buddha's Eightfold Noble Path is segmented and written in both Sinhala and English within lotuses. To me that is the centrepeice of Buddhism, not the story of Prince Siddhartha., but his teaching - the Dhamma. But his life story, particularly that of a protected prince is integral to Buddhism as the many qualities this young man showed long before he became the Buddha, are major tenets of Buddhism, namely: the middle way in life avoiding extremes; compassion for all; strength of character with integrity; renunciation for the greater good of man; total unselfishness.

Acting and production

The actors and acting are totally commendable. Gagan Malik with a superbly sensitive face and stature of a prince fits his part perfectly as Siddhartha. He played his role with sensitivity, shown in face and body language. I thought a mite of the Nepalese Mongolian look diluting the totally Indian features would be good, but then again, Siddhartha was born on the border of India not in the centre or north of Nepal. So his markedly Indian looks are to be appreciated. I am glad an Indian was selected to play the role of Siddhartha. Anchal Singh is Yashodara, again with sensitivity of expression and great beauty. Some books tell us Yashodara was dark in complexion. I am glad Anchal is beautifully fair and radiant. Congratulations are due to our Ranjan Ramanayake - King Suddhodana. He managed all the facial expressions, body language and voice changes that his role demanded and he was regal right through. Roshan Ranaweera was cast correct and acted well though his part as Nanda was fairly minor. Saranga Disasekera as Channa was fine and Gautam Gulati was deviously evil yet handsome as Devadhatta. Anjani Perera and Dilhani Perera, both from the US, are Prajapati Gotami and the mother of Yashodara, I presume. Many other Sri Lankans, such as Wilson Gooneratne, play minor roles very competently. Credit goes to them, plus in large measure to the Director of the film.

Another noteworthy as commendable feature was the method of narration of the events in the film. We first see Prince Siddhartha leave his palace and family and take to the ascetic life. He sits under the bo tree and the assumption is that after nature's upheaval in rain, thunder and lightning and the temptation, he attains Buddhahood. The story then cuts back to the very beginning of his life. This technique is fine.

Thus all praise to the Diector Saman Weeraman. Praise and thanks for giving us this beautiful film to the producers Navin Gooneratne (Chairman /Light of Asia Foundation) and co-producer Jeff Gunawardena, a former Consul General in Los Angeles. The credit titling gave credit to Navin Gooneratne for set design and costumes. Here a special word of praise is due. He used muted colours of browns and blues and soft reds, and greens for outdoors, and the entire production was in muted sepia or fine brown. The royals wore jewellery but far different to the usual princely stuff one sees in local and Indian films – garish tinsel. The jewellery worn by the royals in the film are chunky ornaments but pieces match and are very elegant. Thus was a mantle of graciousness and subtle richness given to the film. The Sakyan clan was not a spectacular one and the film showed it just right.

Music was composed and the playing directed by Pradeep Ratnayake. The background music, swelling at certain times and the three songs sung were most evocative. Choreography was by Channa Wijewardhena. Chandran Ratnam was main advisor to the entire production. With a production team such as this, what else can you expect, and receive, but the best?





After seven years, trial starts in Puerto doping case

January 29, 2013, 9:17 pm

by Harold Heckle

MADRID (AP) — The first day of Spain's long-awaited Operation Puerto trial ended without any new revelations about doping in cycling on Monday, as the presiding judge heard only legal arguments instead of testimony from defendants and witnesses.

In the wake of Lance Armstrong's doping admissions, five defendants are due to be cross-examined in a Madrid courtroom in connection with a sophisticated blood doping network uncovered by police seven years ago.

The alleged ringleader, Dr. Eufemiano Fuentes, was in court Monday, but judge Julia Santamaria only reviewed legal details with lawyers before deciding to leave testimony until Tuesday.

The trial is limited to doping in cycling, even though athletes in other sports were also reportedly implicated in the discovery of blood bags and other doping equipment in 2006. The World Anti-Doping Agency has pushed for all the evidence to be released.

Lawyer Carlos Sanchez, representing former cyclist Jesus Manzano, one of the plaintiffs in the case, said the opening day was taken up "presenting individual allegations and pertinent defenses" to determine what arguments could be used in the trial.

The much-delayed trial, in which 35 witnesses are expected to testify, is due to last until March 22. It has sparked great media interest and the courthouse was surrounded by journalists, photographers and TV cameras from early Monday morning.

Santamaria can only rule on matters covered by Spanish law as it applied in May 2006, when police raids uncovered a mass of blood doping evidence in labs, offices and apartments. The case will focus on whether public health was endangered at any point.

Fuentes allegedly stored bags containing high concentrations of hemoglobin-rich red cells taken from the riders' own blood so it could be re-injected in competition when they needed a performance boost.

Manzano is a retired cyclist who turned whistleblower after suffering medical problems he said were caused by the doping practices while riding for team Kelme.

"Manzano had to stop being a professional cyclist as a result of these practices," Sanchez said.

Speaking to reporters outside the courthouse, Sanchez said the trial must determine whether the blood extractions, transfusions, storage and transport and the labeling of human plasma and blood could have represented a health risk.

"First there is the question of storage," Sanchez said. "Blood must be preserved only in specialized centers. What you can't have is blood being stored at home in the fridge."

Also on trial are Fuentes' sister and fellow doctor Yolanda; Manolo Saiz, a former ONCE and Liberty Seguros team sports director; and Vicente Belda and Ignacio Labarta, both associated with the former Kelme team.

Jose Luis Merino, another medical doctor, also was also due to be tried, but Santamaria granted him a temporary stay last week after he presented medical reports stating that he is suffering from Alzheimer's.

Although no riders will sit in the dock, many will be called to testify as witnesses, including two-time Tour de France champion Alberto Contador. He was stripped of a third Tour title after testing positive for clenbuterol.

Cyclists themselves will not be on trial because of the legal limitations of the case, but there is great interest in case other sports — such as football and tennis — get mentioned as evidence is given.

Several hundred blood and plasma bags were seized by police but the Puerto case has only implicated just over 50 cyclists — including Contador, Ivan Basso, Jan Ullrich and Alejandro Valverde.





The Institute of Chemistry Ceylon has decided to confer its highest honour, Honorary Fellowship, on Dr. Kingsley Anton de Alwis who will be the Chief Guest at the Ninth Convocation of its College of Chemical Sciences on February 21, at Water's Edge, Capital City.

Dr. de Alwis. who has a distinguished and impressive record of service in Sri Lanka as well as in several international bodies, will deliver the Convocation Address on the topic "Education is a Chain Reaction that lasts a Lifetime".

Eighty three Graduate Chemists and 34 Laboratory Technology Diplomates will receive their certificates, medals and awards on this occasion.





Police spokesman SSP Prishantha Jayakody yesterday denied having knowledge of a suspect being arrested in connection with the setting ablaze of the statue of 'Mother Mary' at Avissawella. However, the DIG of the Ratnapura Range confirmed that a suspect had been arrested by the Avissawella police.

The statue of 'Mother Mary' valued at nearly 650,000 rupees was set ablaze in the early hours of Monday, according to police. It had been installed on a bare land near St. Mary's School on Saturday with the approval of the Mayor.

Parishioners suspect that the police have a hand in the arson attack as they attempted to convince parishioners not to proceed with the project to install the statue at that spot.

When The Island contacted the DIG regarding the latest break through by the police, he said that a suspect had been arrested, but he did not know the suspect's identity at that time, as he was in Colombo. He requested The Island to contact the SSP there to obtain details on the suspect.

The SSP confirmed that a suspect had been arrested. Earlier, on Monday, he denied any knowledge about such an incident. However, he refrained from going into detail about the suspect by claiming he was not authorised to provide any details to media and to contact the media spokesman.

A concerned parishioner told The Island that they did not know why the police and the SSP had been trying their best to stop the installation of the statue and had requested the Court to grant them a restraining order. But the Judge had turned down the request as there had been no public unrest or protest over the land or the installation of the statue of Mother Mary.





The rupee gained some ground against the US dollar on account of the foreign interest in the bond auction.

The rupee which opened at Rs. 127.05/10 against the greenback strengthened to as much as Rs. 126.50/60 but closed the day Rs. 126.55/65, currency dealers said.

With a coupon rate of 8.5 percent, bonds tenured for five-years-and-four-months sold to a weighted average yield of 10.74 percent. An eight-years-and-three-months bond with a coupon rate of 9 percent went for a weighted average yield of 11.44 percent while a 15-years-and-five-months bond with a coupon rate of 9 percent sold for a weighted average yield of 12.21 percent.

Like the first bond issue, foreign investor appetite was apparent with yields falling in the third bond issue this year, unlike the second issue which saw yields stay flat on limited foreign participation.

Yields stayed flat from the first issue to second issue where bonds tenured for 3 years and five months with an 8 percent coupon rate sold to a weighted average yield of 10.98 percent. An 8 years and 4 months bond with a coupon rate of 9 percent went for a weighted average yield of 11.64 percent while a 15 year and 6 months bond with a coupon rate of 9 percent sold for a weighted average yield of 12.25 percent.

Currency dealers said they usually saw foreign interest building up prior to a bond issue with the rupee showing signs of appreciating.

"We did not see this build up this time, but in turned out that foreign interest was huge on the day of the issue," a currency dealer said.





Violence against women: Pillay commends Verma Comm. report

January 29, 2013, 10:19 pm

GENEVA (25 January 2013) - The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay on Friday (25 January) welcomed the report of the Verma Committee as a groundbreaking basis for action against violence against women in India, and urged the Government to follow through on its vision and recommendations.

"I salute Justice Verma and his Committee on producing such a thorough report so quickly, and for involving women's groups and civil society so fully in the process," a UN statement quoted the High Commissioner as having said.

"This report and its far-reaching recommendations are not only a tribute to the brave young woman who was raped and murdered five weeks ago, but to all victims of sexual violence and assault in India," she said. "It is also a testament to the power of the young women and men of India, and the broader civil society, who have joined hands across the nation to say 'Enough is Enough'."

The report recommends a number of far-reaching changes including punishment for marital rape, domestic rape and rape in same-sex relationships; requiring police officers to register every case of reported rape and ensuring those who fail to do so face serious repercussions; ensuring accountability of police or armed forces personnel for sexual violence; punishing offences such as stalking and voyeurism with prison terms; changing the humiliating protocol for medical examinations experienced by rape victims; cracking down on extra-legal village councils, known as khap panchayats, which often issue edicts against women; comprehensive measures to improve sexuality education in schools and the community; and making new legal requirements and electoral reforms to ensure that people charged with criminal offences may not hold political office.

"I strongly support the fact that the report eschews the death penalty and any lowering of the age of juvenile perpetrators," the High Commissioner said. "And that, instead, it recommends suitably heavy prison sentences ranging from seven years to life."

"The Committee's recommendations are grounded in a framework of rights, equality and non-discrimination, and represent a paradigm shift towards recognition of women as holders of rights, not just objects of protection," Pillay said. "The report should serve as a beacon for many other countries struggling to respect the rights of women more comprehensively by addressing sexual violence through legislation, policies and programmes."

The High Commissioner acknowledged some of the urgent steps already taken by the Government, including the establishment of fast-track courts, and urged all political leaders of the country to rally around the Verma report and make implementation of its recommendations an unequivocal national priority.

At the invitation of the Verma Committee, the Office of the High Commissioner made a submission and stands ready to assist in any aspect of the report's implementation.





Iguodala, Nuggets snatch win from Pacers

Denver's Andre Iguodala made a free throw with 0.4 seconds remaining after forcing a turnover to deny a last-second shot by Indiana, giving the Nuggets a 102-101 win over the Pacers on Monday.

Denver, overall fifth in the Western Conference snatched the win away from Indiana, which fell 1-1/2 games behind Chicago for the Central Division lead.

In other key games, Houston inflicted Utah's heaviest-ever home defeat, Memphis produced a big comeback to beat Philadelphia and Golden State welcomed Andrew Bogut back from injury in the win over Toronto.

Denver's Iguodala finished with 13 points, 10 rebounds and seven assists, and had the defensive play of the game when he stole the ball from Paul George as the Pacers' guard maneuvered for a last-second shot.

Iguoadala signaled for time out with 0.5 seconds remaining. On the inbounds, Andre Miller lobbed a pass toward the basket that Iguodala and George both went after with George making contact and getting called for the foul.

After missing four consecutive free throws earlier in the fourth quarter, Iguodala coolly sank the tiebreaker and missed the second on purpose and the buzzer sounded as the ball rattled off the backboard.

The Houston Rockets destroyed the Utah Jazz, winning 125-80 — a margin far in excess of Utah's previous worst home defeat which was by 33 points against Milwaukee in 1980-81.

James Harden scored 25 points for Houston while Carlos Delfino and Marcus Morris each had 4 3-pointers for the Rockets, who sunk 16 3s in all.

The Jazz had won six straight at home but simply couldn't keep pace in transition. They were outscored 26-2 on the break and shot just 39.5 percent. Randy Foye led Utah with 12 points.

The Memphis Grizzlies came from 17 points down to win 103-100 at the Philadelphia 76ers.

Marc Gasol scored a season-high 27 points and Rudy Gay had 26 for the Grizzlies who won despite the absence of injured point guard Mike Conley.

The Grizzlies took control late in the fourth. Gay grabbed a rebound and made it 101-100 on a bucket with 13.3 seconds left. Philadelphia's Thaddeus Young missed a short attempt in front of the basket and the Grizzlies grabbed the rebound. Gay was fouled and made both free throws for a three-point cushion.

Evan Turner scored a season-high 27 points for the Sixers.

Golden State's Bogut had 12 points in his return as the Warriors downed the Toronto Raptors 114-102.

David Lee had 21 points and 12 rebounds, while Stephen Curry scored 17 points before leaving with an injury.

Aaron Gray had a career-high 22 points and 10 rebounds for the Raptors.

The Brooklyn Nets made it eight straight home wins by beating the Orlando Magic 97-77.

Deron Williams had 20 points and nine assists while Brook Lopez scored 16 points to help Brooklyn sweep the four-game season series against Orlando.

The Nets tied a franchise record with their 11th victory in January and can break it when they host Miami on Wednesday.

Nikola Vucevic had 18 points and nine rebounds for the Magic, who lost their sixth straight.

Chicago's Jimmy Butler had a career-hight 19 points as the Bulls beat the Charlotte Bobcats 93-85 while the Sacramento Kings ended a four-game skid by edging the Washington Wizards 96-94, with Isaiah Thomas sinking a floater with a second to play.





Tiger Woods cruises to victory at Torrey Pines

January 29, 2013, 8:45 pm

by Steve DiMeglio

SAN DIEGO —

It looks like it will be a major year for Tiger Woods.

Hindered by the dawdling pace of play and a faulty driver, Woods nevertheless polished off another tour de force around these parts on a sun-splashed Monday to win the delayed Farmers Insurance Open for the seventh time.

Struggling but never in any danger of collapsing over the final 11 holes on the South Course at seaside Torrey Pines, Woods finished at 14 under par with his even-par 72 in the final round to win his 75th career title by four shots over defending champion Brandt Snedeker and Josh Teater.

The win bodes well for Woods — and not so much for his colleagues.

In the six previous seasons that Woods won the Farmers, he never won fewer than four tournaments that year. That included eight wins twice and years of seven, six and five victories. The year he won four — in 2008 — he played just six events as he had season-ending surgery to his left knee following his win in the U.S. Open — at Torrey Pines.

In five of those six years when he won the Farmers, Woods triumphed in a major championship. The lone year he didn't pull a Farmers-major double was 2003.

Woods didn't know those statistics. But he does know good things are ahead.

"I'm excited about this year," said Woods, who refined his new swing with coach Sean Foley and worked hard on his short game in the offseason. "I was excited about what I did last year, winning three times. And I felt really good about what we're working on. Does it feel good? Yes. Does it give me confidence? Absolutely. This was a nice way to start the year."

Woods' caddie, veteran Joe LaCava, is excited, too.

LaCava was there every step of the way last year as Woods won the Arnold Palmer Invitational at Bay Hill, the Memorial at Muirfield Village and the AT&T National at Congressional.

After Monday's victory, LaCava said he sees an even better version of his man this year, citing the continued work on his rebuilt swing and a much improved short game.

"I think what's great is I'm seeing him play more naturally and with more feel," LaCava said. "I know he has a lot of confidence. He is so confident that he can take the driver, when he really needs to, and aim it at trouble and cut it away from the trouble right into the center of the fairway.

"That's why I know he has it."

Woods had everything else working this week — at least until Monday's cold, extremely slow final 11 holes. After increasing his lead to eight, Woods, No. 2 in the official world golf rankings, battled a wayward driver and finished with two bogeys and a double-bogey in his final five holes.

"It got a little ugly at the end," Woods said. "I lost my patience because of the slow play, and I lost my focus there a bit.

" ... I hit the ball well. Pretty much did everything well this week, and built myself a nice little cushion. I had some mistakes at the end. But all my good play before that really allowed me to afford those mistakes."

Before the last six holes, however, Woods rarely made a mistake. He's once again feasting on par-5s, as he was 12 under on them this week. He had 27 one-putt greens and just one three-putt. He made a tournament-leading 21 birdies and added two eagles. And without having to spend as much time this offseason on his rebuilt swing, Woods has turned his attention to his short game, and consequently, he said it is back.

"I drove the ball beautifully all week. And my short game was back to where I know it can be," said Woods, who likely will next play in the World Golf Championships-Accenture Match Play Championship in four weeks. "It was nice to be able to not hit so many golf balls and work on my short game. I think that's where you're seeing the rounds evolve. I'm saving a shot here, saving a shot there, and that's leading to a birdie here and a birdie there. Next thing you know, it's a three-, four-shot swing."

It's a total package that looks extremely difficult to beat.

"I don't think anybody would have beaten him this week," said Nick Watney, the 2009 Farmers champion who finished in a tie for fourth. "He's definitely on his game. When he gets like that, you've got to play your best to compete, and unfortunately, I didntoday. But I'd love to have a shot at him sometime."

So, Woods was asked, does another victory at Torrey Pines, by four shots yet, mean that you are back, ready to climb back to the top?

"I never left," Woods said.

Tiger at Torrey

Tiger Woods on Monday added his seventh victory in the Farmers Insurance Open. Each of the previous six years he won at Torrey Pines turned out to be pretty successful:





Hotel occupancy rates down

Occupancy rates at Sri Lanka's hotels had slipped across star categories in November 2012 from a year earlier, worsening from October despite arrivals going up, official data show.

The average occupancy rates of hotels tracked by the state tourism office fell to 76.2 percent in November 2012 from 90.3 percent a year earlier. In October occupancy fell to 73.2 percent from 80.8 percent.

The number of hotels tracked by the tourist board rose to 269 from 252 in 2011, with uncategorized hotels rising to 155 from 139.

In November 2012 occupancy in 5-star hotels fell to 76.4 percent from 90.2 percent a year earlier and occupancy in 4-star hotels fell to 75.7 percent from 91.7 percent.

At 3-star hotels occupancy fell to 77.4 percent in November from 88.8 percent as year earlier, and 2-star hotels to 77.4 percent from 89.1 percent.









Snake charmers in Court today

January 29, 2013, 10:18 pm

By Cyril Wimalasurendre

KANDY: The four snake-charmers, who caused panic among the passengers and crew of a CTB bus, bound for Kurunegala on Sunday (27) night, when their cobras and pythons escaped from the baskets and slithered around, are to be produced before the Galagedara Magistrate's Court today (30).

Galagedara police earlier produced the four-men in the Kandy Magistrate's Court and they were ordered surety bail of Rs. 100,000 each.

Additional Magistrate Sampath Hewawasam ordered that the nine cobras and the monkey be handed over to the chief of the gypsy clan in the Kurunegala district and the three pythons to be handed over to the Wild-Life Department.

Due to the failure of the suspects to furnish bail they were remanded.





Watto backs Henriques for India

The Test vice-captain does not have as a say at the selection table but rates Henriques as the "most talented" all-rounder in the country.

Henriques has thrust his name into the Test frame after a stellar season in the Shield which has reaped 385 runs at 77 and 14 wickets at 18.

If Henriques was not the front-runner to grab the all-rounder's berth in India then he "certainly should be", Watson said.

"He's certainly one of the form all-rounders in Australia at the moment, there's no doubt he'd be able to do a very good job in India," Watson said.

"There's a few other guys I'm sure the selectors have got their eyes on but there's no doubt Moises Henriques is one of the most talented all-rounders going around and there's no doubt in India as well having one more bowling option will help Michael [Clarke] out."

Henriques and Glenn Maxwell appear to have the inside running to tour India though Tasmania's James Faulkner can press his case on the international arena after being called into Australia's ODI squad for the first two matches against the West Indies.

"There's some other guys who have been doing really well who are more predominantly bowlers but it's great to see some younger guys coming Moises Henriquesthrough and performing really well," Watson said.

"I'd like to have another all-rounder in any game because it takes the bowling workload off me once I get into the swing of things.

"The guys just need an opportunity to see how good they can be like I was lucky to have when I was younger.

"The best way to see how good you can be is actually getting consistent opportunities at the highest level to be able to improve."

Watson continues his comeback from injury on Wednesday when he steps up to state level for in NSW's one-day game against Western Australia at the SCG.

Watson returned to competitive cricket on Saturday, making 30 for grade club Sutherland.

"It was good to be able to get through the grade game with no issues," Watson said.

"It would have been nice to get a few more runs but in the end to get out there and spend some time in the middle was a lot of fun. I'm really looking forward to tomorrow's match if the rain goes away."









People's Bank Chairman Karunajeewa passes away

January 29, 2013, 10:02 pm

Chairman of People's Bank and People's Leasing and Finance PLC, W. Karunajeewa, passed away yesterday morning (29). Mr. Karunajeewa, who was 66 years of age at the time of death, assumed duties as the Chairman of People's Bank in 2007.

After following his primary education at Bowala Maha Vidyalaya and Dharmaraja College, Kandy, Mr. Karunajeewa obtained a Degree in Commerce from the University of Peradeniya. Subsequentlym he began his career in teaching. In keeping with his progressive beliefs, Mr. Karunajeewa embarked on a career in politics by joining the Sri Lanka Freedom Party.

He was appointed as the Administrative Secretary of the party by the then Prime Minister, Mrs. Sirimavo Bandaranaike in 1973. He held many posts as a member of the party.

In 1987 Mr. Karunajeewa took oaths as an Attorney-at-Law. In 1997 he was appointed as the Working Director of the Ceylon Fisheries Corporation, later becoming the Chairman. In 2005 he was appointed as the Chairman of the Employees Trust Fund (ETF) and later Chairman of People's Bank in 2007.

The exemplary and visionary leadership of Mr. W. Karunajeewa has contributed towards the expansion and current position of People's Bank.

While serving the bank with dedication and dynamism, Mr. Karunajeewa also assumed duties as the Chairman of People's Leasing Group of Companies.

His outstanding service and contribution rendered towards developing People's Bank, its subsidiaries and the local banking fraternity was recognized by the Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka, which awarded him an Honorary Fellowship in 2010.

Mr. Karunajeewa was the husband of Mrs. Kusum Karunajeewa and father of Mr. Indika Karunajeewa and Ms. Dilini Karunajeewa.





Tough justice at J'pura

January 29, 2013, 10:03 pm

by Dasun Edirisinghe

The Student Council of the University of Sri Jayewardenepura yesterday claimed that the university administration, with the approval of its Senate, expelled four undergraduates and suspended the studentship of seven others for three years.

Representative of the Student Council Kimbullewe Ananda thera told The Island that four final-year undergraduates of the Management and Arts Faculties had been expelled just two days prior to their graduation.

He said that other students too were final-year undergraduates.

"This is a very unfair punishment meted out without giving a chance to submit their explanations," Ananda thera said adding that the punishment was given after a one sided inquiry.

During the past few years, there has been massive suppression of students in the Jayewardenepura University under present Vice Chancellor Prof. N. L. A. Karunaratne, he said.

Ananda thera said that when undergraduates protest against suppression and other academic and welfare problems, the university administration expells them.

"We will appeal against this expulsion and suspension," he said.

Ananda thera said that they also held a demonstration opposite the university against this unfair decision last week.

When contacted the media spokesman for the Sri Jayewardenepura University Dr. Praneeth Abeysundera denied the students' claims.

He said that the studentship of eight students had been suspended and three students had been given conditional suspensions as they were found guilty of causing disturbances, violent behaviour, assaulting the Vice Chancellor, Academic Staff and Security officials and damaging university property.

Dr. Abeysundera said this punishment was enforced by the University Senate after a proper investigation conducted by the disciplinary committees.





Ghana powers into quarters, Mali squeezes through

PORT ELIZABETH, South Africa (AP) — Asamoah Gyan powered Ghana into the knockout rounds and laid down the challenge to Didier Drogba and Ivory Coast at the African Cup of Nations on Monday.

Mahamadou Samassa's equalizer also squeezed Mali through from Group B as the first two quarterfinal lineups were decided.

Nearing top gear, Ghana will face Cape Verde in a match pitting the four-time champion against the tournament debutant in Port Elizabeth.

Because of its problems back home, Mali will have the support of many neutrals in the other quarterfinal on Saturday when it meets host South Africa, which will have the overwhelming backing of a 50,000-plus crowd in Durban.

Gyan scored one and set up two as Ghana finally announced itself as a genuine title contender with a flowing 3-0 win over Niger to finish top of Group B. Mali's hard fought 1-1 draw with Congo ensured it qualified second in the group.

"Today was a great day for us. All the players are happy ... Their confidence is growing," Gyan said.

While the Cape Verdeans will have undoubtedly watched with some trepidation as Gyan and Ghana's new breed of attacking youngsters picked apart Niger's previously miserly defense at Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium, the Black Stars' slick performance may also have raised some eyebrows in Rustenburg on the other side of South Africa, where Ivory Coast is preparing for its final group game.

Gyan and fleet-footed newcomers like Christian Atsu and Albert Adomah showed that favorite Ivory Coast's heavyweight stars might not have a straightforward march to the title.

"We have to admit that we played a team that was a little bit faster than us," Niger coach Gernot Rohr said after Ghana rushed into a 2-0 lead inside the first 25 minutes and could have won by five or six goals.

Convincingly turning around his and Ghana's sluggish start to the Cup of Nations, Gyan smashed in the opening goal in the sixth minute, set up Atsu for the second in the 23rd and had a major role in a third for John Boye early in the second half.

Ghana's captain, lead striker and talisman also had two more good opportunities as the Black Stars found their feet and raced past Niger, which had only conceded once in its two previous games. Niger's problem was it also didn't score, and left the tournament without a goal.

Mali ensured it was moving on and Congo was going home after the Malians held their nerve after falling behind to a third-minute penalty from Dieumerci Mbokani at Moses Mabhida Stadium in Durban. Samassa scored just over 10 minutes later and Mali held out in a foul-ridden game.

It didn't show the flair of Ghana, but the Mali team's resilience might be crucial later in the tournament as it tries to bring unexpected happiness to its people back home.

"I won everything in football, I won all the titles," Mali captain and former Barcelona midfielder Seydou Keita said. "Today the only thing I want is to bring joy to my country. You cannot imagine how happy I am to be here."

In an emotionally charged quarterfinal, South Africa will be under enormous pressure to bring satisfaction to its expectant followers, who are again likely to fill Moses Mabhida Stadium with their vuvuzelas and in their bright yellow Bafana Bafana shirts.

Group C's quarterfinalists will be decided on Tuesday when Nigeria and defending champion Zambia attempt to scramble through and throw off the underdog challenge of Burkina Faso and Ethiopia.

And amid Gyan's attention-grabbing performance, Drogba still stole some attention on Monday.

Turkish club Galatasaray announced it had signed the Ivory Coast captain on an 18-month deal from China's Shanghai Shenhua, taking the former Chelsea striker back to the Champions League — but only after his latest and maybe last attempt to finally win the African Cup.

Ivory Coast was the first team to qualify for the quarterfinals at this Cup of Nations and is waiting for its opposition to be decided.





Convert the diesel subsidy into a Cash grant for the poor

January 29, 2013, 8:12 pm

The present subsidy on diesel is intended to protect the poor who would otherwise have to pay higher food prices since diesel price increases would raise transport costs which enter into the costs of all commodities. But the subsidy distorts the market price system and worsens the public sector deficit ( CPC runs a large loss) which adds to inflation anyway. The subsidy also benefits the well-off who use diesel driven vehicles. It sends the wrong signals to diesel consumers and reduces their incentive to save on fuel.

Cash grants equal to the value of the subsidy could be given directly to the less well off who are entitled to Samurdhi. Since everybody has a National Identity Number and can easily open a savings account with a bank close by, the Samurdhi could be directly credited to their bank accounts. This will lessen corruption and administrative costs of dispensing Samurdhi benefits.

It is better to give cash grants and allow the CPC to fix the diesel price to recover the cost. Perhaps more players are needed in the petroleum business which can be thrown open to the private sector for competition is best for consumers.





End to telegrams: Some hilarious incidents

January 29, 2013, 8:11 pm

It is reported that the age old telegram, which I believe was introduced during the British times which was the sole means of communicating an urgent message in the good old days, has been done away with, giving way to the modern technology such as the mobile phone, SMS,FAX,E-MAIL etc. In the past, communicating by telephone was a very time-consuming and cumbersome process. Telephone calls, both local and foreign, had to be booked through the Central Exchange. After booking the call, the caller would be told that there would be a delay of several hours, and the caller cannot budge anywhere expecting the call to come through at any time.

The telegrams bring to my mind some hilarious incidents. The telegrams handed over at the post office will be dictated by the Post Master, to the Post Master at the post office mentioned in the telegram. Often telegrams are sent to convey a tragic event such as a death. For example, a telegram would read, "Grandmother expired, funeral tomorrow, come immediately". As I said, communicating the message to the other post office would take time, and often the Post Master would have locked up for the day and gone home. The telegram would be repeated the following day. The addressee of the telegram would be living several miles away from the Post Office. A messenger either on foot or a pedal cycle has to deliver the telegram. Once the telegram is received, the grieving recipient would be under the impression that the funeral is on the following day. By the time he reaches the funeral house with his family, the funeral would have been over. Sometimes, a right royal fight would take place for burying the dead before the relatives could come. Grandmother for clarity purposes, would be dictated by the Post Master to the Post Master at the other end, something like this: George, Robert, Arthur, Nelly, David, Mary, Oliver, Thomas ,Edward, Robert. This was the normal Postal lingo.

Then there is the famous joke where the Governor sent a telegram to a jail Superintendent not to execute a prisoner as he had been pardoned. The telegram read, "Hang him not, pardon him". Unfortunately the comma was placed in the wrong place by the receiving Post Master ,and the telegram had read as, "Hang him, not pardon him". The poor pardoned prisoner ended up in the gallows, all because of a comma in the wrong place!





Lessons from the Holocaust

WARSAW, Poland -- Holocaust survivors, politicians, religious leaders and others marked International Holocaust Remembrance Day on Sunday (Jan 27) with solemn prayers and the now oft-repeated warnings to never let such horrors happen again. (AP)

by Owen Jones

The Statesman/ANN

A few months ago, I stood with a close friend on the abandoned platform 17 of Berlin-Grunewald railway station. Seven decades ago, on this same platform, his grandmother's relatives were crammed into a train with hundreds of other German Jews. They would be shot in the forests near Riga in Latvia, before the Nazis settled on gassing as a more efficient means of extermination. It's a spookily quiet place now, with trees growing from the tracks; difficult to imagine wailing children being dragged into overcrowded trains on a journey lasting days without food or water, on their way to be remorselessly, bureaucratically murdered. A steel grate by the tracks chronologically documents the butchery: on 18 October, 1941, 1,251 Jews transported to Lodz; on 17 March, 1943, 1,160 Jews sent to Theresienstadt; and so on.

It was Holocaust Memorial Day on 27 January 2013, but for a new generation, the Shoah ~ the Hebrew word for calamity ~ often seems too distant, too overwhelming, too horrific to be real. Easy to think of it as an abstract horror from another universe, not an atrocity that remains a memory in the minds of people, some still tattooed with their concentration camp numbers. The author Primo Levi, who survived Auschwitz, recounted how the ashes of murdered Jews became fertiliser or lined the path of SS commando villages. How could such grotesque schemes even be thought of, let alone proposed, let alone realised, by human beings?

The gravity of the Holocaust is lost on some. In the run-up to Holocaust Memorial Day, the Lib-Dem British MP David Ward wrote of being "saddened that the Jews, who suffered unbelievable levels of persecution in the Holocaust, could within a few years of liberation from the death camps be inflicting atrocities on Palestinians." A later clarification was even worse: "It appears that the suffering by the Jews has not transformed their views on how others should be treated." A dismissive generalisation of a whole people should always provoke alarm. So should attempts to conflate the Israeli government and the entire Jewish people. Or, for that matter, to try and portray an entire people as homogenous, as though Jewish critics of Israeli policies such as Naomi Klein, Harold Pinter or Noam Chomsky can be lumped together with Ariel Sharon and Avigdor Lieberman.

But the lessons of the Holocaust must be learned and re-learned by each new generation. The first is that vigilance against the poison of anti-Semitism must remain. In Latvia, there have been marches to commemorate Nazi collaborators as patriotic freedom fighters. In Hungary, the deputy chair of Jobbik ~ the country's third biggest party ~ called for a national register of Jews to determine whether they posed a "national security risk": thousands of Hungarians laudably marched in disgust.

Yet neither should we fatalistically believe that anti-Semitism is somehow inherent or part of the European condition. The Holocaust was the culmination of two millennia of prejudice and persecution, and unlearning that heritage was never going to be instantaneous. Britain's last anti-Jewish riots were in 1947, not long after the emaciated survivors of Auschwitz-Birkenau, Belzec and Treblinka had been liberated. But anti-Semitism ~ once rampant in many countries ~ has been driven back, and can be defeated everywhere.

The Shoah should be remembered as a unique warning from history. Mass murder, even genocide, predate the gas chambers: indigenous people were wiped out across Latin America; up to ten million died in Congo at the hands of the Belgian King; millions perished from avoidable famines in British-ruled India; German colonists themselves committed genocide against the Herero and Nama people in South-west Africa. But the Shoah ~ along with the Porajmos, the Nazi extermination of the Roma people ~ was unique as an industrialised, systematic attempt to wipe out an entire people. It was bureaucratically planned and executed; all the appropriate forms were diligently filled in. It was capitalism gone mad as corporate giants like IBM, IG Farben and Siemens provided the required technology and profited from the slaughter.

The Holocaust should teach us that evil does not exist. An odd, perhaps ludicrously offensive statement. But to dismiss such atrocities as "evil" is to abdicate responsibility, to comfort ourselves by pretending somehow it was not human beings committing such sickening acts, but monsters who are nothing like us. Germany was one of the most advanced countries on earth at the time. Studies suggest that only about one per cent of humans are genuine psychopaths. Millions helped the organised slaughter of Jews ~ as well as Roma, disabled people, socialists, Slavs and so on ~ and they were thinking, feeling human beings capable of grief, love and fear, however distressing it may be to accept that fact.

The atrocity teaches us about what it means to be human. As a socialist, I am compelled to have an optimistic view of humanity, to believe we are not all motivated by greed, selfishness or hate. But what the Holocaust reveals is the almost infinite malleability of humanity: that we have the capacity to do wonderful things, and yet to perpetrate the most unimaginable horrors.

It demonstrates the terrifying potential of dehumanisation, too. When you strip someone of their humanity, you become capable of committing unspeakable acts against them; you immunise yourself against normal human emotions. This is the process that allows suffering to be inflicted on innocent people on a daily basis.

We must remember, too, that hatred continues to be fanned against entire peoples. Muslims are the current target of choice for the European far-right; they are demonised by the mass media and mainstream politicians.

The Holocaust cannot be glibly remembered in passing as a tragic aberration, an extreme and unrepeatable atrocity that happened because millions of people somehow went mad. The remembering and learning has to go on. As Karl Jaspers, himself persecuted by the Nazis, put it: "That which has happened is a warning. To forget it is guilt. It must be continually remembered. It was possible for this to happen, and it remains possible for it to happen again at any minute. Only in knowledge can it be prevented."





UAE's Etihad set to buy 24% in India's Jet Airways for $300mn

January 29, 2013, 8:25 pm

By S. Venkat Narayan, Our Special Correspondent

NEW DELHI, January 28: Jet Airways (India) Ltd, India's second-largest airline by passengers carried, will sell a 24% stake to Etihad Airways PJSC for around $300 million, a leading business daily reported today.

According to two people close to the development, neither of whom wanted to be named, the deal will make Jet Airways the first Indian carrier to take advantage of rules introduced by the government in September, allowing a foreign airline to pick up a stake of as much as 49%. The shares that will go to the Abu Dhabi-based national airline of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) will be by way of new stock and the dilution of promoter Naresh Goyal's 80% holding, Mint tabloid said.

"The Jet Airways-Etihad deal is almost structured and is waiting for some minor fine-tuning. It's a win-win agreement for both," it quoted one of the people who spoke on condition of anonymity. Both airlines are working out the legal, commercial and operational aspects of the deal.

Executives from both the airlines declined to comment.

Jet Airways will gradually scale down operations at its current international hub of Brussels and move this to Abu Dhabi, said the two people. Jet Airways started using the Belgian capital as a hub in September 2007, when it began flying to Europe, making it the first Indian airline to have full-scale operations outside the country besides state-owned Air India.

The government allowed overseas carriers to pick up stakes in local airlines following demands by cash-strapped domestic airlines looking to help shore up capital and reduce debt.

Both Jet Airways and Kingfisher Airlines Ltd, the latter grounded since October, had been in stake-sale discussions with Etihad Airways. Jet Airways told the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) on January 3 that it is in discussions with Etihad Airways for a potential investment without divulging details, indicating it may be closer to a deal with the West Asian airline than rival Kingfisher Airlines.

Malaysia-based AirAsia Bhd Group has said it will continue to explore opportunities in India following the policy changes.

If the deal goes through, it will help Jet Airways increase its international reach and reduce some of its debt burden.

Etihad Airways, which began operations in 2003, serves 86 cities in West Asia, Africa, Australia, Asia, Europe and North America, with a fleet of 70 Airbus and Boeing aircraft. It has at least 90 aircraft on firm order, including 10 Airbus A380s, the world's largest passenger aircraft. Jet Airways currently operates a fleet of 99 aircraft and flies to 73 destinations in India and at least 20 overseas.

"Jet Airways can benefit from the added economies of scale and scope (relating to fleet, operations and fleet, for example), infusion of cash, membership in a different partnership (including a membership in SkyTeam in due course), potential opportunity to develop strategic partnership with a broad spectrum of airlines such as Air Berlin and Virgin Australia, and, most important, access to management talent with proven experience and a global perspective," said Nawal Taneja, professor emeritus in the department of aviation at Ohio State University.

SkyTeam is a global grouping of airlines that's a rival to Star Alliance and Oneworld. On its website, SkyTeam says it is actively looking for partners in Latin America, India, Southeast Asia and the larger Asia Pacific.

Jet Airways was said to be in the running for a place in Star Alliance shouldering aside Air India's bid for membership.

A Jet-Etihad deal could put Air India back on track for membership of Star Alliance. Oneworld has put the entry of Kingfisher Airlines on hold, citing the latter's financial conditions.

The UAE carrier has stock in Air Berlin, Air Seychelles, Virgin Australia and Aer Lingus.

A deal would allow Etihad to tap the ninth-largest aviation market in the world, putting it in a better position to compete with Dubai-based rival Emirates, Taneja said.

Emirates flies to 128 destinations in 74 countries across six continents with 195 wide-bodied Airbus and Boeing aircraft and has an additional 204 planes on order. It has been serving India since the airline's launch in 1985 and it currently flies 185 flights per week from 10 Indian cities.

"Competition is good for us. It will keep us alert," said Essa Sulaiman Ahmad, vice-president, India and Nepal, at Emirates.

If the deal goes through, this will be the second time Jet Airways is getting foreign direct investment.

In 1993, Kuwait Airways and Gulf Air bought 20% each in Tail Winds Ltd, an overseas corporate body owned by non-resident Indian (NRI) Naresh Goyal, which held all of Jet Airways' stock. But in April 1997, the ministry of civil aviation ordered Jet Airways to conform to the rule that overseas airlines shouldn't hold stock in India carriers (the rule that was changed in September last year). Goyal then acquired the 40% holding.

Jet Airways was incorporated on 1 April 1992, as a private company and commenced operations as an air taxi operator on 5 May 1993, with a fleet of four leased Boeing 737 aircraft. The airline was granted scheduled airline status (allowing it to have a network timetable) on January 14, 1995.

India is always going to be on the medium to long-term radar for most big international carriers, said Bharat Mahadevan, who until recently was regional manager for north-east Asia at Jet Airways.

"With Kingfisher down, the international carriers will be waiting and watching to see if the Indian carriers can pick up the yields and move back into profitability on a sustained basis," he said. "And then they would definitely be interested in investing. The biggest problem for the ailing Indian aviation industry is not the government taxes or the high cost of fuel—it's the over-capacity in the market."

Jet Airways will approach the Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) for permission to tweak its ownership pattern to facilitate an equity investment by Etihad Airways. Jet Airways needs to change its shareholding pattern as promoter Goyal holds his stake through the Tail Winds overseas corporate body. Tail Winds, registered in the tax haven Isle of Man, owns 80% of Jet Airways, with the rest held by the publc.









NDB approves Rs. 5.4bn for renewable energy projects

January 29, 2013, 6:19 pm

With the Sri Lankan economy growing steadilyalong with revived economic activities in post war era, the demand for energy has increased significantly.Presently, Sri Lanka is proud to be the only South Asian nation to have an electrification percentage above 90% and it boasts of a national grid which penetrates to most habitable parts of the country. The total installed capacity of all types of energy in the country as at 2011 was3,141 MW with a ratio of 54:46 between thermal and Hydro/ Non-conventional renewable energy sources. The total gross generation of 11,528 GWh was distributed on 57:43ratio between the Ceylon Electricity Board and Private Power producers.

Revived economic activities in North and East after them being integrated to the main stream socio-economic system of the country has created the need for a reliable source of power in the said areas. Further, the government's plans to promote the country as a prime tourism destination, proposals to set up industrial parks to facilitate the manufacturing sector and the expected economic activities associated with the Hambantota port operations will further increase the demand for energy in the immediate future. Constantly improving living standards as a consequence to the increased economic activity across all geographic regions & economic sectors after cessation of the 30 year internal conflict, has resulted in the per-capita energy consumption seeing a steady growth.Hence, the demand for electricity in the future is estimated to grow around 7-8% surpassing the past trends.Therefore Power and Energy sector plays a more pivotal role in the economic development of the country than ever before and this requires the sector to meet the challenges of sourcing significant investments required to increase generation capacity to desired levels.

The national energy policy and strategies formulated by the Ministry of Power and Energy has envisaged a number of elements to be considered when meeting the rising demand for energy in the country. The use of economically viable environmental friendly, non-conventional renewable energy sources and establishing a facilitation agency for the promotion of non-conventional renewable energy resources were some of the strategies identified in implementing the said national policy. Key sustainable non-conventional forms of renewable energy promoted in Sri Lanka are small scale hydro power, biomass including dendro power, biogas and waste, solar power and wind power while other sources such as wave energy and geothermal are also popular in other parts of the world.

NDB's role in financing renewable energy projects

The endeavor to implement renewable energy technologies have been facilitated through dedicated credit lines from multilateral agencies such as World Bank through Energy Services Delivery Project (ESDP) which provided an initial support to the sector. This was followed by Renewable Energy for Rural Economic Development (RERED) which was with the objective of promoting the private sector participation in power generation and encouraging provision of access to electricity for rural households. NDB in its development banking operations played a significant role under these schemes by financing several mini hydro power projects and wind power projects.

Minihydro and wind power projects funded by NDB

NDB has been actively engaged in funding mini hydro power projects over a decade and has been a participating credit institution (PCI) in both the above credit lines.With the objective of participating in developing non – conventional renewable energy projects in the capacity of a development financier, NDB played an active role in funding 26 mini hydro power projects promoted by both small scale project developers and large companies. NDB hence was able to fulfill its development financier role by assisting mini hydro projects with assistance to connect an aggregate installed capacity of approximately 75 MW to the national grid. The total cost of the above mentioned projects were approximately Rs 8.5 bn while NDB's contribution in terms of financial assistance amounted to approximatelyRs 2.8 bn. In addition, NDB also partnered with the developers through lending (approximately Rs 940 mn) for diverse financial needs of power companies to a value of approximately Rs 1.0 bn for equity investments in new power projects and for strengthening of financial performance of some of the companies.

NDB is proud to be one of the financial partners to the nation's first ever wind power project, thus playing a pioneering role in assisting the development of alternative sources of energy in the country. Since then, NDB has approved facilities aggregating to approximately Rs 1.6 bn for the purpose of financing wind power projects in Kalpitiya with an estimated installed capacity of 35 MW. While projects with installed capacity of 20 MW have already been connected to the national grid, two other projects with an aggregate capacity of 15MW are being implemented.

In addition to active role played in mini-hydro and wind power sectors, NDB is now in a stronger position to evaluate and appraise biomass projects which is still a comparatively new experience to the country. This is made possible with the experience it gained through preliminary evaluations carried out for several biomass projects and also through the experience it gained by funding the country's first ever biomass power project.

With over 3 decades of project financing experience and the in-house legal expertise available, NDB not only plays a role of financial partner in these projects, but more of a project partner role where advice on project management and legal aspects are made available to the promoters and this is undoubtedly appreciated by the promoters as value added services which could not be measured in monetary terms. The package of services offered by NDB not only ensured the successful implementation of the project but also satisfactory returns to both the promoters as well as the Bank thus creating a win-win solution for both parties. NDB has moved beyond traditional boundaries of financing projects and stretched its professional services to take up the additional responsibility of playing the lead role in some of the syndicated financial packages and co-financed deals for some of the renewable energy projects. This was made possible through its 33 years of experience and expert knowledge of its multidisciplinary team of professionals with exposure to overseas training in wind energy and related technology. Through this process, NDB was able to disseminate and share its expertise and knowhow to these projects and also to the other fellow financiers who participated in syndicated/co-financed deals. Accordingly, NDB is proud of exchanging the experiences in technical evaluation at a time when the project financing was becoming popular in the banking sector.

NDB-IFC partnership

NDB entered in to a Risk Sharing agreement in 2010 with International Finance Corporation (IFC), a member of the World Bank group, as yet another initiative to provide larger quantum of debt financing to the Sri Lankan renewable energy sector. Through this risk sharing facility, NDBis now in a position to absorb greater risks in financing renewable energy projects. This initiative is part of NDB's strategy to participate in country's upcoming renewable energy sector development drive and it facilitates NDB to work towards offering economic benefits for both large as well as small scale local project developers, particularly in wind and hydro power sectors. While NDB takes pride in partnering with multilateral agencies such as IFC in introducing novel instruments to provide greater support to the renewable energy sector, it also takes pride in paving the avenue for some of the large scale promoters to access direct funding lines through the relationships built up with these multilateral agencies.





Outstanding tax refunds: Top tax officials contradict each other

January 29, 2013, 8:29 pm

By Mario Andree

A major dispute within the Department of Inland Revenue had arisen over the appointment of a three member panel to resolve long outstanding tax refunds; a senior official said the finance ministry had instructed the department to resolve the tax refund issues prevailing prior to the S-Vat scheme introduced in 2011.

Inland Revenue Commissioner K. Dharmasena, addressing a recent forum organised by the Charted Institute of Management and KPMG Sri Lanka, said that Deputy Finance Minister Dr. Sarath Amunugama had instructed the Inland Revenue Department to resolve long outstanding tax refund issues and the commissioner general had appointed a three member panel which would study the problem on a case-by-case basis.

He requested the business community to support the panel to resolve the problem of outstanding tax refunds and said the panel would commence operations shortly.

However, when The Island Financial Review contacted the Inland Revenue Commissioner General Ms. Mallika Samarasekara, she disagreed with Dharmasena's statement and said that there was no such instruction from the Deputy Finance Minister and no committee had been appointed to resolve the issue.

According to her, virtually every tax refund had been settled and there were few cases which the department was working on.

She said that it was not an issue anymore to the business community and said the business community was silent on the issue as a result of actions adopted by the Department of Inland Revenue.

"After the introduction the S-Vat scheme in 2011 many tax refund issues were resolved and the matter had been streamlined, however what Dharmasena said was his own statement and there were no instructions or the appointment of a panel to look into the matter," Ms. Samarasekara said.

The business community, mainly the small and medium enterprises have been raising the matter for quite some time at several forums.





Ceylinco Life offers Singapore holiday in guessing game for Sri Lankans

January 29, 2013, 6:22 pm

Intuitive guessing can win one Sri Lankan family an all-expenses paid holiday in Singapore courtesy of Ceylinco Life.

The life insurance leader is engaging with the public at large through a simple yet stimulating promotion as part of its celebration of 25 years in business, a milestone the company reached on 14th January 2013. Commencing Monday 28th January 2013, for two weeks, anyone who takes a shot at guessing what the principal overseas destination of the next Ceylinco Life 'Family Savari' will be, would become eligible to win this grand prize or to receive one of 250 consolation prizes.

To participate, contestants should type CEY followed by a space, their guess for the destination (space), the city or town the contestant resides in (space) and his or her NIC number and send an SMS to 2343 from any mobile phone of any local cellular network. Ceylinco Life's 'Family Savari' programme has in the past presented winners with family holidays in Singapore and Beijing. For this year's edition, the sixth in the series, the company has added Paris to the list of destinations.

The question for the promotion relates to the seventh Family Savari programme, under which overseas trips will be awarded in the first half of 2014. Easily the most generous and logistically challenging interactive promotions in the country's insurance sector, Ceylinco Life's Family Savari programme has to date benefitted 13,760 people from of 3,440 families.

Independently rated one of Sri Lanka's most valuable brands, Ceylinco Life has maintained its leadership of the country's long term insurance sector from 2004 onwards, and has won multiple international and local awards for its commitment to the community and success in brand equity building.





Basil claims over 80 pc foreign funds used for development

January 29, 2013, 10:15 pm

Economic Development Minister Basil Rajapaksa yesterday said that over 80 per cent of foreign funds were channeled to the development projects in the North and the East though the UPFA was defeated in a number of elections in those areas.

He said that the Government provides assistance to all segments of society around the country without any discrimination. Massive development was taking place in the area adjacent to the Galle Face green, he said adding that two leading hotel chains in the world, namely Shangri-La and ITC have invested in two hotels overlooking the Galle Face promenade while development of the Colombo south harbour was progressing rapidly.

Minister Rajapaksa was speaking at the distribution of 108 vehicles among local Government institutions in the Western Province at the Galle Face Green yesterday.

The Western Provincial Council had spent Rs. 307 million for the project. Over 30 trucks and tractors were distributed among the local government bodies for waste management activities. Over 78 cabs and vans were distributed among the local government bodies and the institutions coming under the Western Provincial Council.

Rajapaska added that all parts of the Western province would receive the dividends of this development in the city. He said that the Western Province contributes more than half of the country's economy.





Sammy backs Gayle to return to form against Oz

The West Indies captain Darren Sammy is predicting talismanic opener Chris Gayle's return to form during the upcoming five-match one-day series against Australia.

Gayle struggled in the recent Australia Big Bash League for Sydney Thunder, managing just 137 runs from seven innings as his side finished the preliminary round winless.

However, the left-hander blasted scores of 85 and 122 not out in his only two outings in the just concluded Caribbean Twenty20, and Sammy said Sunday he was expecting great things from the prolific batsman as the West Indies prepared to take on the Prime Minister's XI in Tuesday's (yesterday's) warm-up fixture at Manuka Oval.

"I remember Chris Gayle hitting the ball all over the park," Sammy said, recalling the last time Gayle lined up against the PM's XI two years ago at the same venue.

"We played well that day and entertained the crowd. It's a good fixture whenever we tour here and it's good to play the Prime Minister's match to start our tour. I'm expecting Chris to have a good tour on a whole and I also expect the team to play well in these conditions."

Then, Gayle lashed 146 from 89 balls as the West Indies piled up 399 for five off 45 overs.

Last week, he set the St Lucia leg of the CT20 alight with a brutal exhibition of power-hitting, form Sammy said was encouraging ahead of the Aussie showdown.

"When he came back home he looked really good and I think he almost had the most runs in the Caribbean T20 tournament after just a couple of games," Sammy explained.

"We all know what he's capable of, but the strength for us is the way the team has performed together. We are getting stronger as a unit."

The West Indies will open the series with a doubleheader in Perth next weekend.





Oil rises as US, China manufacturing improves

January 29, 2013, 8:30 pm

BANGKOK (AP) —

The price of oil rose Tuesday, boosted by improvements in manufacturing in the world's two largest economies.

Benchmark oil for March delivery was up 26 cents to $96.70 per barrel at midday Bangkok time in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract rose 56 cents to finish at $96.44 a barrel on the Nymex on Monday.

On Monday, the U.S. reported that demand for long-lasting manufactured goods rose sharply in December. That comes on top of an improved housing picture and strong earnings by major companies. Many analysts think the economy's sluggish recovery will pick up stream by 2014.

China's manufacturing activity has also recently rebounded as the country emerges from its deepest slump since the 2008 global financial crisis. Analysts have all but stopped predicting that the world's No. 2 economy will have a "hard landing," or a sharp downturn.

"The news just appears to be positive and at this stage consistent with consensus or better on growth in the major economies, particularly in the U.S. and China," said Ric Spooner, chief market analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney.

It's a big week for U.S. economic indicators. The government will release reports on weekly jobless claims, unemployment and fourth-quarter growth. And the Federal Reserve's policy committee holds a two-day meeting that concludes on Wednesday.

Brent crude, used to price international varieties of oil, rose 2 cents to $113.50 a barrel on the ICE Futures exchange in London.





Star tennis player Aisam Qureshi, 32, is now in Sri Lanka with the Pakistani Davis Cup team. The holder of the current Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP) world men's doubles rank of 14 will be the highest ranked international player to play on Sri Lankan soil in the recent history.

He is recipient of the prestigious International Tennis Federation (ITF) Davis Cup Commitment Award. Aisam-ul-haq Qureshi is son of Nosheen Ihtsham, former Pakistan No.1 ladies' tennis player. Quershi, who was former world No.7 as a junior, is here after participating in the Australian Open Grand Slam men's doubles and mixed doubles events ended last weekend.

The 6-footed sporting celebrity from Lahore has enjoyed an impressive career high doubles rank of 8 on June 6, 2011 winning career prize money worth $1,605,128. Qureshi's career high world singles rank is 125 (Dec. 10, 2007).

New Zealand's Daniel King-Turner (227 in 2010 in Singles) and Jose Statham (Singles 340) and Thailand's Danai Udomchoke (Singles 159) and Sanchai Ratiwatana (Doubles 75=) are the highest ranked ATP professionals to play in Sri Lana in recent times.









For Shane Warne, Cricket Australia chiefs are 'muppets'

January 29, 2013, 8:53 pm

The outspoken Warne vented his anger on Twitter in his latest run-in with the Cricket Australia, which has attracted stinging criticism from other greats of the game for rotating players in a bid to reduce injuries.

"Can CA please put current cricket people in charge to run the game, select teams, not ex rugby or any other sports people plse, seriously.

"We have the best batsmen/captain in the world in @MClarke23 (Michael Clarke) - He needs current cricket people to help him out, not muppets."

Retired players have queued up over the Australian summer to attack the repeated rotation of players. Former skipper Ian Chappell charged CA with creating "more confusion than an algebra test."

Sri Lanka won the first T20 match by five wickets in Sydney on Saturday, and won again at the MCG late Monday off the last ball of the match under the Duckworth-Lewis method.

Australia drew the one-day series with Sri Lanka 2-2, resting Clarke for the first two games, after sweeping the Tests 3-0. (Read full match report here)

Warne was last week fined Aus$5,000 (US$5,250) for a code of behaviour breach in the domestic Big Bash League.

And he apologised earlier this month after a foul-mouthed rant against West Indian all-rounder Marlon Samuels that earned him a ban and a Aus$4,500 fine.

Warne claimed 708 Test wickets in a celebrated career that also courted controversy, including a fine for taking money from a bookmaker. He was sent home from the 2003 World Cup for taking a banned diuretic.









Development of Hambantota and Ruhuna – some reflections

January 29, 2013, 5:33 pm

By Dr. Siri GamageGamage.siri@yahoo.com

There is much activity planned and being implemented to develop Hambantota as well as adjoining areas of the district by the present government. In addition to the port, convention centre, cricket ground, and the airport, there is a multitude of other infrastructure, business and entrepreneurial activities planned or being implemented at a large scale. Southern highway is being extended step by step toward Hambantota. Foreign investments are being constantly sought by the Board of Investment for the area.

The story of infrastructure development, including, roads, railway, highways and domestic airports is becoming a national story rather than one limited to Hambantota district. Telecommunications and other service sectors, such as, tourism, medical and educational are also being expanded, involving public and private sectors. This article aims to provide some reflections on these developments from the perspective of someone coming from the district originally.

Setting aside the politics of these exercises, it is important to recognise that Hambantota district has long been a neglected part of the country, for decades if not for centuries. Large numbers of people in the area sustained life on the basis of chena cultivation and/or working as labourers. Those who owned highland with coconuts and other crops as well as paddy lands in sufficient extents were considered wealthy, but the majority who did not own such property from their ancestors had to work as labourers for others who owned land to eke out a living and provide for their children's education and progress in life. Engagement in small business became an avenue for many aspiring individuals and families to earn an extra income and in fact buy land from families who earlier held ownership. Land owning families started to decay or moved to Colombo after finding employment as professionals, government servants etc.

The vacuum left behind by such families in the area created absentee landlordism for a while culminating in selling the very land that provided theirs and their ancestors' sustenance at an earlier era. Emerging families found the opportunities to buy land from land owning families as a way of advancing their own progress in economic and social terms. Even some families who worked as labourers in large tracts of land were able to purchase a part of such land later with the money that they earned through business or once their children found employment elsewhere. The expanding high school education in the district after independence in 1948 provided an avenue for young children from poor families to advance themselves in life by going to university and finding work in Colombo and other cities. It is well known that some schools, such as, Walasmulla Maha Vidyalaya, have been producing large numbers of such aspiring young people to be future doctors, engineers, and other professionals. The district quota system in place for university admissions played a part in this trend.

Many in the previous generation could not benefit from these opportunities due to many factors. Educational disadvantage played a key role in this because they were not able to read or write, calculate numbers, or to communicate with significant others in order to advance themselves by accessing opportunities in the wider world. Those who were able to get involved in local politics at the village and town levels, particularly with the knowledge and blessings of local politicians and parties, did enjoy benefits, including finding employment for their kith and kin in a limited way. Such employment was limited to clerical posts in the government, jobs in the Army or Police, as Grama Sevakas or work in government controlled establishments, such as, Sathosa . One problem was that those who either supported the opposition party or did not have any political affiliations found it difficult to access such benefits for their kith and kin. Some people changed their party colour after elections to access the limited benefits of employment etc. that were offered by elected Members of Parliament from the governing party of the day. The other opportunity available for poor residents in the district was the availability of land in uncleared areas, such as, Embilipitiya and Suriyaweva.

The development of Udawalave scheme in the 1960s and '70s was a landmark in the annals of the history of the district as it encouraged residents in congested villages and towns to move out and find a new life as chena cultivators initially and as farmers subsequently when the water was made available along with other facilities. I grew up in the Walasmulla area in the '50s and '60s and witnessed first hand how the aspiring villagers went in groups and occupied state land in uncleared areas by setting up temporary huts. I remember how they carried guns, food and other essentials and on return for temporary stays they brought meat, vegetables etc. In those days, transport was a big problem. Initially MW vans or bullock carts carried goods and people to Embilipitiya and beyond. People often complained at the state of the road, as it was not tarred beyond a certain point, and with the rains became muddy and unsurpassable. The arrival of four wheel tractors made a big difference later on as they could pass such difficult spots and carry goods and people with ease.

A short visit to Suriyaweva area in the late '80s with my father and friends showed how some of those people who moved from Walasmulla and surrounding areas had been settled in the new land. One of my schoolmates from a farming family has become a rich landowning farmer in the area. Others carried out their original skills in drumming, devil dancing, sorcery, carpentry, masonary, local medical treatment, and the like. The availability of roads, electricity, water, housing and other essentials in life have made a big difference to people's lives. When the main trend had been for people to move to Colombo and other cities in search of opportunities, these people chose the other way to move to an undeveloped area, which had land and prospects of future development when the Udawalave project was implemented. This eased the congestion, crime and disadvantage in original villages on one hand and opened up new avenues of engaging in education, cultivation, business, and politics on the other. The opening of employment opportunities in Free Trade Zones and in the Middle East also allowed members of many poor families to access not only an extra income but also much needed cultural capital to operate in modern society, including, practical knowledge about Colombo and travel.

This brief background story is essential to understand and interpret what is happening today in the Hambantota district and in Ruhuna in general as well as in the country. The aspirations of the common man, as the phrase implies, are more on things, such as, advancement or progress in life, meaning basic facilities of housing, water, electricity, health, education, and income. The ability to lead a peaceful life without interference from law enforcement officials or the local politicians is another desire held by people –even though those associated with one or another party often praise the leaders of those parties in day to day conversations. Ability for children to access the opportunities that the parents did not have is a prime consideration. In this case, the average person is even willing to cross the boundaries of what is known as the 'right thing'. This means paying money to someone who promises to find employment, going after politicians and even begging and worshiping them, using caste, religious, village, school and kinship networks and the like. Nonetheless, there is a significant number of people who do not want to denigrate their dignity by visiting politicians for such purposes. It is the silent majority. The day-to-day discourses of people include criticisms of various policies, actions and statements of politicians. However, people admire any development work initiated and implemented by governments. Thus,all praise the improvements to the road network as it has reduced the travelling time between places.

I had the opportunity to visit Hambantota and Tissa area last year with my family and could witness the nature of some developments taking place. I can imagine a future where Ruhuna again becomes a place of interest, activity and sustenance to a large number of Sri Lankans and others if the current developments continue. One day it could even become the capital of the country, as there is ample land and other facilities, well connected with the rest of the country. There are critics of the development initiatives as there were critics of the Mahaweli Development project on grounds of waste etc. However, in the long run, the development of Hambantota and Ruhuna can only add to the well being of large segments of the population.

There are several areas needing the attention of the government in developing Ruhuna. First, while infrastructure development is to be appreciated, equal if not more attention has to be given to the development of human skills among the population. This means the development of facilities to train future workforces with desirable human qualities, values and norms as law-abiding citizens who can access global and regional opportunities. Second, the preservation of local history, culture and the environment has to be given high priority. Historians, ethnologists, anthropologists etc. have a role to play in this. Establishing local museums in major towns and villages with trained people where important cultural artefacts, art, documents etc. can be housed is paramount. Necessary library and Internet facilities need to be provided to make a literate population. Unless a medium to long-term plan is designed and implemented to do these, the local histories, culture and important artefacts can be lost for the future generations. Young people also need to be encouraged to write local histories.

Third, while Ruhuna is receiving the attention of politicians and policy makers, the same is not true for other areas, which deserve the same attention. For example, Kandy is still struggling with transport congestion. The traffic between Kandy and Peradeniya at peak times is unbearable. This is a problem that can easily be solved by establishing a sky train as in Bangkok. A plan can be designed to expand the commercial hub along this road with scenic points located along the Mahaweli River for those who wish to relax and enjoy food by the roadside. The road can be re-developed with two levels above the ground, i.e. first level as a walking path and the second level for a sky train. People and tourists can then use the walking path to shop around without having to use transport. Development of Peradeniya town has also to be given high priority, perhaps, by taking over some of the University land for the purpose.

These developments are nation-building efforts and after the conclusion of the war the government has been able to achieve considerable progress. Northern Province is being developed along similar lines to the development of Ruhuna. If such developments are planned with sufficient cultural sensitivity and respect for the people's needs and aspirations, Northern development can assume even more significance than the development of Ruhuna in time to come. However, inclusive decision-making and accommodation of various social groups in the polity is highly important to sustain governance structures and development initiatives in the long term.





Com Bank's e-Exchange recipients get lucky

January 29, 2013, 6:21 pm

Several lucky recipients of remittances via e-Exchange, the Commercial Bank's sophisticated real-time on-line money transfer service had their remittances doubled by the Bank under a special promotion that began in mid December and ended in January 2013.

These customers were chosen at four weekly draws and received up to a maximum of Rs 100,000, as a reward for choosing Sri Lanka's largest private bank as their partner for remittances. A total of Rs 1.5 million was paid out to 65 winners by Commercial Bank as prize money under this promotion.

Commercial Bank's 'e-Exchange' service is a highly secure, low cost money transfer facility which is available to remitters via a network of agents in over 50 countries. Recipients of remittances can collect proceeds from any of the Bank's computer-linked service points, a significant number of which are open even on bank holidays, and access their funds through its network of 556 ATMs, which is the largest cash-dispensing system owned by a single bank in the country.





The Gujral factor

War on terror revisited

January 29, 2013, 12:00 pm

Part-99

By Shamindra Ferdinando

JVP leader Somawansa Amarasinghe signing the Condolence Book opened in the Indian High Commission in Colombo on the sad demise of Inder Kumar Gujral, Former Prime Minister of India, who passed away on Nov. 30, 2012.

The JVP in June 1989 ordered all Indians to leave the country or face the consequences. It was nothing but a foolish propaganda effort in the wake of President Premadasa's demand for the IPKF's withdrawal by July 29, 1989. The then Indian High Commission spokesperson Ms Primrose Sharma explained the measures taken by India to ensure the safety and security of the diplomatic staff. The majority of the diplomatic and non-diplomatic staff moved to Colombo hotels, with the police and security forces providing security (Security forces on full alert-The Island June 15, 1989).

One-time Indian Prime Minister Inder Kumar Gujral died on Nov. 12, 2012 in a hospital at Gurgaon near New Delhi, aged 92. Gujral was India's 12th premier, heading a United Front coalition government (April 1997 to March 1998). He held the external affairs portfolio twice, first from 1989-1990 and again in 1996-1997.

The much discussed Gujral Doctrine took shape during his second stint as India's External Affairs Minister, though his influence in changing Indian foreign policy towards Sri Lanka in 1989 could never be disputed. If not for Gujral, the then President Ranasinghe Premadasa would have found himself in a catastrophic situation. Gujral advocated the withdrawal of the IPKF.

The defeat of the then Premier Rajiv Gandhi's Congress at the Nov. 1989 general election and the formation of the National Front government, with Gujral as its external affairs couldn't have come at a better time for President Ranasinghe Premadasa. Had the Congress regained power, India wouldn't have complied with President Premadasa's demand and he would have had to face a powerful hostile power. This, against the backdrop of Premadasa's hostility towards India in general and the Gandhis in particular, would have placed Sri Lanka in an extremely difficult position.

Former Indian Foreign Secretary J. N. Dixit in his memoirs, titled Makers of Indian Foreign Policy, faulted Gujral's strategies. In a chapter captioned 'A Pacifist and an Optimist', Dixit, New Delhi's top diplomat in Colombo during the deployment of the IPKF declared, "I.K. Gujral was appreciated for his idealism and commitment to peace. But he was overoptimistic and was willing to make compromises with other countries in a one-sided manner." Commenting on Gujral's response to President Premadasa's demand to withdraw the IPKF, Dixit said that the then External Affairs Minister was of the opinion that India should not have got involved in a mediatory role in Sri Lanka. According to Dixit, Gujral was also strongly opposed to training and arming of what Dixit described as Tamil separatist groups and the deployment of Indian armed forces in Sri Lanka. "Gujral did not accept the argument that if India had not got actively interested in trying to resolve the ethnic conflict in Sri Lanka, it might have had to face a separatist movement in Tamil Nadu. He was also of the view that India's military involvement and political mediation in Sri Lanka was against the basic principles of nonalignment and the stipulations of international law. He orchestrated a 180 degree turn in India's Sri Lanka policy. There were segments of Indian public opinion which welcomed his decision as a statesman-like action, restoring India's foreign policy on the right track and regaining the moral high ground which it had apparently lost in Sri Lanka."

Dixit said that others felt that the decision taken by Premier V. P. Singh and Gujral caused the dismantling of the ILA, leading to the failure of what he described as the disintegration of the experiment of Tamil self-government in Northern and Eastern Sri Lanka.

President's shocking move

Having won the Nov. 19, 1988 presidential election, President Premadasa set the stage for a fresh confrontation with India, at the Jan. 2, 1989 inauguration of his presidency. In spite of his hostility towards, India, no one expected him to demand the withdrawal of the Indian Peace Keeping Force (IPKF), in a bid to facilitate resumption of direct talks with the LTTE.

The demand was made on the morning of April 13, 1989. Addressing a small gathering at Chittawiwekaasramaya, a temple situated near the Independent Television Network (ITN) head office, President Premadasa called for the withdrawal of the IPKF within three months (on or before July 29, 1989, the second anniversary of the signing of the Indo-Lanka Agreement). The announcement was made after President Premadasa had declared a unilateral ceasefire throughout the country to coincide with the Sinhala and Tamil New Year. The IPKF, too, reluctantly agreed to suspend operations in the temporarily merged North-East Province, in accordance with President Premadasa's move. During the weeklong ceasefire, violence claimed the lives of 110 persons.

India/IPKF would never have suspected President Premadasa's plan to call for the IPKF's withdrawal in the wake of the temporary ceasefire. The President was hastily responding to the LTTE declaration that it wouldn't suspend operations until the IPKF quit Sri Lanka. On the instructions of President Premadasa, the then State Minister of Defence Ranjan Wijeratne invited the LTTE to direct talks. The LTTE's International Secretariat in London accepted the invitation on April 15, 1989. The stage was set for what came to be known as the Premadasa-Prabhakaran honeymoon.

Premadasa's ill-fated strategy paved the way for the transformation of the LTTE from essentially a terrorist organisation to a force with a distinctive conventional military capability.

Although President Premadasa always talked of restoration of normalcy in the North as well as South through consultation, consensus and compromise, the UNP leader never practised what he preached. He did not trust anyone and none dared to discourage him from challenging India. Fear of losing access to the President's private residence, Sucharitha made politicians and officials alike go with his thinking. The President felt that that he would be free to deal with the LTTE and the JVP once he got rid of the IPKF. He obviously considered the IPKF the biggest obstacle to his presidency. An angry India was blunt in its response. President Premadasa was told the IPKF wouldn't be pulled out. In spite of President Premadasa pushing the Indian High Commission in Colombo as well as Premier Gandhi for de-induction of the IPKF, India remained noncommittal.

Balasinghams in Colombo

Former Veerakesari staffer turned former British High Commission employee Anton Stanislaus Balasingham arrived at the Katunayake International Airport (KIA) on April 26, 1989. He was accompanied by his second wife, Australian born Adele. On the instructions of President Premadasa, Air Lanka flew them from Heathrow to KIA at the government's expense. Balasingham was representing the LTTE as its theoretician. The SLAF flew them to Colombo for a meeting with Presidential Secretary K.H. J. Wijedasa (Balasingham arrives here for talks-The Island April 27, 1989).

At the behest of President Premadasa, the SLAF airlifted the LTTE delegation from the Vanni to join the Balasinghams for their first formal meeting with the government at the Colombo Hilton on May 5, 1989. However, President Rajapaksa met the LTTE delegation at Sucharitha on the evening of the previous day. They discussed the crisis caused by the Indian intervention, deployment of the IPKF, formation of a militia loyal to the Eelam People's Revolutionary Liberation Front (EPRLF)-run PC administration in the North-East and the 'colonisation of predominately Tamil areas' under the auspices of the Mahaweli Authority.

The LTTE conveniently forgot the circumstances that had led to the Indian intervention in June 1987. India intervened when the Sri Lankan Army was advancing on two flanks after having liberated Vadamaratchchy in the last week of May 1987.

President Premadasa went out of his way to appease the LTTE. On his instructions, the government facilitated the return of Prabhakaran's wife Mathivathani, daughter Duwarka and son Charles Anthony from Europe. Their fourth child Balachandran was born in the Vanni East.

Premadasa leads talks

Premadasa declared that the IPKF should be confined to their barracks in case its withdrawal couldn't be completed. India ignored Premadasa's call. As part of measures to undermine Premadasa's administration, India formed a militia under the political leadership of the EPRLF to face the Premadasa-Prabhakaran axis. The so-called Citizen's Volunteer Force (CVF) was transformed into the Tamil National Army (TNA). The IPKF didn't realise that the TNA couldn't match the LTTE.

In the immediate aftermath of V. P Singh's triumph, Premadasa's sent State Minister for Defence, Ranjan Wijeratne, to explore the possibility of expediting the IPKF pull out. External Affairs Minister Inder Kumar Gujral as expected gave an assurance that India would pull out her forces.

Premadasa handpicked his team for negotiations with the LTTE. He kept Messers Lalith Athulathmudali and Gamini Dissanayake out of the secret process. A. C. S. Hameed (Minister of Higher Education and UNP Chairman), Ranil Wickremesinghe (Minister of Industries). Ranjan Wijeratne (Minister of Foreign Affairs), Sirisena Cooray (Minister of Housing and Construction), U. B. Wijekoon (Minister of Public Administration, Home Affairs and Provincial Councils), P. Dayaratne (Minister of Lands, Irrigation and Mahaveli Development) took part in the first round of talks held at the Colombo Hilton and Galadari Hotel (May 4-May 30, 1989).

The second round (June 16-July 2, 1989) was also held in Colombo. Premadasa included Festus Perera (Minister of Power and Energy) and A. R Mansoor (Minister of Trade and Shipping) in the delegation.

The third round was held in November 1989 at Sucharitha with the participation of Premadasa, Hameed and Ranjan Wijeratne. Among the officials present were Defence Secretary Sepala Attygalle, presidential secretary K. H. J Wijedasa, Foreign Secretary Bernard Tillekaratne and International Affairs Advisor Bradman Weerakoon. Prabhakaran's deputy, Gopalsamy Mahendraraja aka Mahattaya joined the third round. The LTTE delegation included Balasingham and Yogiratnam Yogi.

Felix Dias Abeysinghe, a former Elections Department chief who drafted routine press releases issued after the meetings was also present. But there was no press release after the third round.

At the behest of the President, the army provided arms, ammunition and equipment to the LTTE to carry out attacks on the IPKF and the Tamil groups loyal to India. The LTTE also received funds from the Treasury.

The President directed the army to provide tactical support to the LTTE to carry out operations against the TNA.

EPRLF fights back

In the run-up to President Premadasa's call for the IPKF's withdrawal, the embattled Chief Minister of the North-East Provincial, Council Varatharaja Perumal called for far reaching constitutional reforms to devolve powers to the provinces. Having met Indian Premier Gandhi and President Premadasa, Perumal called a media briefing on the morning of April 7, 1989 in Colombo to explain the urgent need for tangible action on the part of India and Sri Lanka. Perumal declared that the EPRLF expected Premier Gandhi to take up the issue with President Premadasa. Responding to a query, Perumal strongly defended his decision to call the provincial administration the government of the Northern and Eastern Provinces (Perumal says he asked for India's help––The Island April 8, 1989).

On April 17, 1989, the EPRLF warned the Sinhalese living in Welikanda area to leave or face the consequences. Despite threats, some villagers lodged complaints with the Welikanda police, though law enforcement officers couldn't interfere with the EPRLF ('Quit or die' threat to Welikada settlers––The Island April 21, 1989).

IPKF engineers protests

in B'caloa

Having decided to ignore President's Premadasa's vacation order, the IPKF mobilised thousands of people in Batticaloa against Premadasa's call. Protesters handed over petitions to the IPKF demanding the continued presence of the Indian forces and the speedy devolution of powers to Perumal's provincial council (Demos in Batticaloa calling for IPKF to stay-The Island June 13, 1989). The ENDLF (breakaway PLOTE faction), TELO and EPRLF led the protests. The Sri Lankan military remained in barracks.

The IPKF and the EPRLF administration went to the extent of escorting senior government officials from their residences to the Batticaloa Kachcheri to prevent the LTTE from disrupting civil administration.

India indicated in no uncertain terms that President Premadasa's deadline wasn't acceptable. Until the change of government in Nov. 1989, India remained committed to an Indian military presence, regardless of the President's call.





Bangladesh to enact law to protect indigenous products

The Bangladesh government is set to pass the geographical indication (GI) law in the first parliamentary session of the year to safeguard the patent rights of the country's century-old products.

The law—with its final draft posted on the industries ministry's website—will safeguard the country's claims to products such as jamdani sari, hilsa fish, nakshi kantha and fazli mango, and prevent knock-offs.

"We plan to get the GI law passed in this parliamentary session," Industries Minister Dilip Barua said, adding that the draft will be forwarded to the law ministry for vetting.

As per the draft, the industries ministry will open a geographical indication wing under the Department of Patents, Designs & Trademarks, with the chief of the wing being the registrar of geographical indications of goods.

The ministry can also open multiple branches of the wing across the country.

The GI is a name or sign used on certain products to certify that they possess certain qualities because they are made according to traditional methods or enjoy a certain reputation due to its geographical origin.

The government has taken the initiative to formulate the GI Act in 2009, with the first draft of the law placed on the industries ministry's website in January last year, a ministry official said.

To register a product, the association or co-operative of the product will have to apply; no one individual can register a product.

Upon receiving the application, the registrar will run a newspaper circular to find out whether any other trade body or association objects to the registration.

If any party wants to oppose the listing, it will have to complain to the GI wing within 60 days from the date of the newspaper circular. The registration of GI goods will be valid for ten years with an option for renewal for another ten years.

If persons or associations are not the real owners of the GI goods and try to get the certificate, they will be punished with a maximum of three years' imprisonment or a fine of 200,000 taka (US$ 2,516) or both.

Mahboob Murshed, a former additional judge and a legal expert, said the GI Act will protect the rights of the real producers of any particular goods in an area.For example, if the farmers of Dinajpur can register Katari bhog as the rice of Dinajpur under the GI law, none but them can use the Katari bhog name. If the GI law comes into force, Jamdani can be registered to the country and no foreign country can export any clothing item named Jamdani to Bangladesh, he said.





SriLankan is now in Gampaha

January 29, 2013, 6:21 pm

SriLankan Airlines in a bid to increase its presence in all parts of the country opened its latest passenger sales office in Gampaha; under the patronage Chief Executive Officer of the SriLankan Airlines Kapila Chandrasena.

The branch office will facilitate travel formalities to a large clientele in the Gampaha district. This includes handling of reservations, ticketing, Prepaid Ticket Advices (PTAs), requests for special services, information on fares, schedules and packages - essentially offering the same sales activity carried out by any city office of the airline.

SriLankan has appointed Lando travels (Pvt) Limited, which is a leading IATA accredited travel Agency in Sri Lanka that caters the travel facilities for clients such as airline ticketing and reservations, travel insurance, outbound holidays ,inbound tour programs and worldwide hotel reservations.

"Providing a direct and comfortable service to our customers at their own city is one of the objectives that we have initiated to expand our business to all parts of the country. The opening of the Gampaha branch would facilitate us to serve our customers even better where they are no longer required to come to Colombo to get done their travel requirements accordingly including this office we have opened four offices across the country." said Chairman of SriLankan Airlines, Nishantha Wickramasinghe.

SriLankan Airlines Chief Executive Officer Kapila Chandrasena said "SriLankan targets to make SriLankan brand and product readily available in each and every corner of our country to provide an extended service to all customers under our extensive expanding strategy. The opening of Gampaha branch marks another successful step in to an administrative town in Sri Lanka making travels easier and comfortable on SriLankan"

The ceremony attended by large gathering including senior management of the SriLankan Airlines, government officials and business partners and the customers of the SriLankan .

The Gampaha PSA Office will be manned by proficient staff and is located at No. 302, Colombo Road, Gampaha. It will be open from 0815-1700hrs on weekdays and from 0815-1230hrs on Saturdays (except mercantile and Poya holidays). For information, contact us 0334950020 /21.





India lauds Lanka's economic progress

January 29, 2013, 10:27 pm

Indian Minister of State for Commerce and Industry Dr. D. Purandeswari had expressed her satisfaction over Sri Lanka's economic progress and infrastructure development.

During a meeting with Economic Development Minister Basil Rajapaksa at his ministry last week, she told him that she was impressed wuth the development of the Northern and Eastern Provinces and added that the products of Sri Lankan garment factories, established in Hyderabad, were of high quality.

She explained that the tourism industry in Vishakhapatnam was well developed and discussed with Minister Rajapaksa the possibility of starting flights between Sri Lanka and Vishakhapatnam and other areas in India.

Minister Purandeswari also noted the progress made by Sri Lanka's tourism industry, contributing its maximum to develop the country's economy after 30 years of war, which seriously affected tourism in the island.

Minister Rajapaksa said that the government had been able to raise the nutrition level of people in every area of Sri Lanka. Cottage industries had helped housewives in Batticaloa to earn additional incomes. He told the visiting Indian Minister that the Sri Lankan Government was paying greater attention to developing the cottage textile industry and fisheries products. In addition, the government was focusing on improving the quality of life of people in the plantation and fisheries sectors and low-income groups in urban areas after identifying their needs. Accordingly, loan facilities, advice and guidance for developing small industries would be provided and better houses would be provided for those without proper housing. There would be more employment opportunities and the quantity and quality of products would be increased, he said.

Dr. Purandeswari commended the progress of the Indian-funded housing project launched in the North. Acting Indian High Commissioner in Sri Lanka P. Kumaran, Additional Secretary of India's Commerce, Industry and Textile Ministry J.S. Deepak, Director of the same Ministry Wandana Yadevi and Sri Lanka's Industry and Commerce Ministry Secretary Anura Siriwardena were among those who attended the meeting.





Cairn Lanka sets Feb 01 for spudding fourth exploratory well

* US$ 150mn invested on phase one, local companies, Navy & Air Force get US$ 12.4mn * IF commercially viable hydrocarbon deposits found, extraction could start 3 to 5 years from now

January 29, 2013, 8:32 pm

Cairn Lanka will commence drilling a fourth exploratory well 21km off the Kalpitiya coast on February 01, 2013, in its search for commercially viable hydrocarbon deposits in Sri Lanka's side of the Mannar Basin.

The availability of a drillship, the 'Discoverer Seven Seas' owned by Singapore-based Transocean Inc, made it possible for Cairn Lanka to advance the drilling by a quarter, paving way for the team to exploit a prime 'weather-window'.

Cairn Lanka, fully owned by Cairn India, has already invested US$ 150 million on the first phase which resulted in the discovery of two (out of three) successive gas and condensate discoveries on wells named CLPL Dorado and CLPL Barracuda.

Spudding, or the start of drilling, on the fourth exploratory well is part of phase two and the well will be called CLPL Wallago, named after a breed of catfish found in the Central Province of Sri Lanka, Cairn India Head of Corporate Affairs and Communications Dr. Sunil Bharati, told The Island Financial Review yesterday.

The company has already exceeded commitments under phase one, which was the drilling of three exploratory wells, by acquiring 3D seismic data covering 600sq km of the Mannar Basin sea bed.

Data from the CLPL Wallago well, 1.1km from the sea-level and 3km from the seabed, the seismic data and data from the two successful wells would be subject to a series of gruelling analysis, which could take months.

"IF the data is promising then we could commence appraising the hydrocarbon deposits within a year or two," Dr. Bharati said.

The appraisal process referred to the process of finding out the size or volume of hydrocarbon deposits. This data is again analysed and a commercialisation study is done to determine whether the hydrocarbon deposits are commercially viable.

For an industry where guess-work is shunned for meticulous study and preparation Dr. Bharati cautiously said: "IF all goes well, and IF the data points to commercially viable hydrocarbons, then extraction could commence within three to five years time." He stressed again, that everything depended on finding such a deposit, and this takes time, and money.

Cairn Lanka's commitment for phase one was US$ 110 million but it had spent more than US$ 150 million for additional work, such as the acquisition of 3D seismic data. Dr. Bharati was tight-lipped on how much would be invested on phase two.

Sri Lankan companies, alien to the hydrocarbon exploration industry, have already forged partnerships with Cairn Lanka, and Dr. Bharati said he was impressed.

"We have already spent US$ 12.4 million on Sri Lankan businesses for their services and goods. We appreciate the services carried out by the Sri Lanka Navy (security) and Sri Lanka Air Force (helicopter ferrying) both on commercial terms," he said.

Hayleys Energy, GAC Shipping, NARA, Lanka IOC were some of the others doing business with Cairn Lanka, apart from the city hotels that provides accommodation to an international team conducting operations on the drill ship for three to four months at a time.

"At any given time there are more than a hundred people on the drill ship," Dr. Bharati said.

During exploratory activities in phase one, around six Sri Lankan professionals and scientists were on board the drillship providing their services.

He paid to a tribute to Sri Lanka's bureaucracy, saying it was more efficient than a few other regions where Cairn operated.

"Government approvals are a lot quicker than in some places, and full marks to them, given that this was a relatively new industry," Dr. Bharati said.

IF, commercially viable hydrocarbon deposits are found, it would belong to the government of Sri Lanka, where a royalty fee and profit sharing with Cairn Lanka would ensue according to the Petroleum Resources Agreement signed in 2009.

The government expects a 10 percent royalty, apart from the profit share based on the investment multiple, taxes and the revenue of the participating National Oil Company which will be incorporated IF and WHEN commercial oil extraction commences.

According to this agreement IF commercially viable deposits of hydro carbons are found, based on the investment multiple, the shares in profits will begin from 12.5 percent to Sri Lanka and increase to 60 percent within five years of commencement of oil extraction.





Sevilla beats Granada 3-0 in Spanish league

SEVILLE, Spain (AP) — Sevilla earned a comfortable 3-0 home win against Granada in the Spanish league on Monday thanks to goals by Geoffrey Kondogbia, Alvaro Negredo and Gary Medel.

The win lifts new coach Unai Emery's team to 11th place in the standings on 26 points.

Kondogbia scored when he headed in a corner kick in the 32nd minute, and had an appeal for a penalty waved off when he was cut down by Granada central defender Diego Mainz in the six-yard box two minutes later.

Negredo made it 2-2 for Sevilla when he leapt up high to athletically head down a cross by Ivan Rakitic in the 70th.

Five minutes later, Medel chested down Negredo's forward pass and hit a right-footed shot into the net.





While challenges are an essential part of governance and indeed of life, the government was always ready to share its thoughts and plans with the public, because the support of the people was the ultimate strength of the government, Minister of External Affairs Professor G. L. Peiris said in Tangalle and Mulkirigala on Monday.

He was speaking at ceremonies to inaugurate a computer laboratory at Wakamulla Vidyalaya and to donate equipment and books at Kirama Dhammananda Vidyalaya.

Public awareness was nowhere more important today than in relation to the dramatic changes taking place in the field of education, he said. One of the prominent features of government policy with regard to education was firm commitment to making available to students in all parts of the country facilities and resources in no way inferior to what was offered in the leading schools of Colombo, he said,

"It is in pursuit of this objective that computer and other facilities, necessary for imparting a complete education relevant to the needs of our time, are now being rapidly introduced into schools in the Hambantota district," he observed.

He recalled the days, not so long ago, when schools in the area were deprived of even basic facilities. That situation had been reversed today and talented students from the district were now able to hold their own and even to perform better at public examinations than students from privileged schools, he noted. This is the result of a sustained policy being implemented by the government to ensure that the fruits of peace, stability and economic development are enjoyed in full measure in all parts of the country and not restricted to a few areas which have hitherto been the sole focus of attention, he said.

It was directly in consequence of this concern for social equity, underpinning the philosophy to which the government was committed, that students from the area were able to achieve for themselves satisfying careers in the public service, the professions and entrepreneurship, he said.

Minister Peiris proceeded to sound a note of caution. He said that these gains, if they were to continue, should be strenuously defended by the public at large. It must not be forgotten that the government had to hold at bay powerful forces and thwart their designs in order to overcome terror and to emancipate the people from its stronghold. The Minister referred to the persistent efforts made by powerful elements to stop the military operation during its decisive final stages. Had it not been for the resolve shown by the political leadership, the carnage would be continuing even today, he said.

After the eradication of terrorism, the country was told, in no uncertain terms, that it was being punished for not heeding the views of these elements, and an economic price was exacted by the withdrawal of significant trade benefits."What we now see, unfolding before us, is yet another phase in this campaign," the Minister remarked. What is now sought to be done is to use human rights as a political weapon in the most selective and discriminating way imaginable to introduce obstacles in the way of the country's economic and social progress, he said.

Prof. Peiris assured that the government had the courage to overcome those challenges, no less evident at the present time than even at the height of the conflict. He cautioned, however, that there was no room for complacency, and that the people must rally round the government to protect and consolidate the hard won benefits which they enjoy today.

Ven. Ambakolaweta Dhammaratana Thero and Siriwardena, the Principals of the two schools, Chandima Rasaputra, Minister of Education of the Southern Provincial Council, Southern Provincial Councillor Kapila Dissanayaka and Mahinda Gamachchi, Vice Chairman of the Weeraketiya Pradeshiya Sabha, addressed the gathering.





'Black January' protests Govt. failure to find journalists' killers

General Fonseka, Opposition politicians join demo

January 29, 2013, 9:46 pm

by Zacki Jabbar

The Alliance of Media Organizations yesterday staged 'Black January', at Lipton Circus, demanding that the Rajapaksa regime conducts proper investigations into the killing of all journalists and attacks on news organisation offices, including those committed under its rule.

A large number of placard carrying and slogan shouting journalists, belonging to seven media groups, gathered at the Lipton Circus roundabout yesterday afternoon. After demonstrating for a while, demanding that justice be meted out to those who had eliminated their colleagues, they proceeded to the National Library where a meeting was held.

Many politicians were in attendance, including the former Presidential Candidate General Sarath Fonseka and UNP, JVP and DNA parliamentarians. Representatives of the FSP, USA, Lawyers Collective, university lecturers, trade unionists and civil society organizations also participated.

A spokesman for the organizers said that no politician was invited, but they had come voluntarily.

The journalists demanded that the killing and assaults on all their colleagues including, Lasantha Wickremetunga and Sivaram (Taraki) and the disappearance of Cartoonist Prageeth Ekneligoda be properly investigated and justice be meted out to the offenders.

They also lamented the lethargy and lack of progress in the inquiries into attacks on news organisation offices, including 'Sirasa' Radio and Television and the websites Lanka E-News, SriLanka Mirror and SrilankaXnews, even though it had occurred over two years ago.

Many of the speakers noted that when any harm befell government politicians, the police had acted very swiftly and in most instances arrested the suspects within days and sometimes in a matter of hours, but the same efficiency was not displayed when members of the fourth estate were harmed.

They also called on the Rajapaksa regime to introduce, without any further delay, the Right to Information Act, if it was truly committed to transparency and good governance.





Vaiko challenges ban on LTTE

CHENNAI: The Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam leader, Vaiko, has moved the Madras high court opposing ban on the LTTE.

The first bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Elipe Dharma Rao and Justice Aruna Jagadeesan issued notices to the union of India and the Tamil Nadu government.

While the Centre issued a notification on November 7, 2012 invoking the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, the Tamil Nadu government issued a gazette notification on January 4, 2013.

Since 1992, when the LTTE was first banned in India, the governments had been extending the ban periodically. On June 6, 2012 the centre constituted Justice V K Jain committee and on July 17, 2012 and made the reference to the tribunal to adjudicate whether or not there was sufficient cause for declaring LTTE as unlawful association.

Vaiko, who argued the matter in the high court in person on Monday, said in the petition that the activities or pro-LTTE organisation, individuals, sympathisers, who are members of the LTTE cannot be reason to declare the LTTE as an unlawful association. Te centre has not produced any legally acceptable corroborative material to establish the particular activity was done by any of the embers of the LTTE.

Denying the Centre's claim that the LTTE's object for separate Tamil Eelam threatened the sovereign and territorial integrity of India, Vaiko said the object was restricted only to Tamils living in northern and eastern parts of Sri Lanka.

As for Centre's claim that fundraising and propaganda activities were on in Europe, Vaiko said neither the state nor the central government had given an iota of evidence to substantiate the allegation. As for internet propaganda against India, he said: "There is nothing wrong in the Tamil diaspora in criticising top Indian political leaders and bureaucrats responsible for the defeat of the LTTE. Had the Indian top political leaders and bureaucrats not aided the Sri Lankan government, there would not be any criticism against those responsible for the massacre of Tamils in Sri Lanka." (ToI)





Delimitation Commission invites written proposals

January 29, 2013, 9:47 pm

by Franklin R. Satyapalan

The National Delimitation Commission (NDC), tasked with the re-demarcation of electoral boundaries in the country, has invited civic organizations, political parties and individuals to send in their written proposals to the NDC Secretariat, at No. C/51, Keppettipola Mawatha, off Jawatte Road, Colombo-5, before February 15, 2013, according to Chairman of the Commission Jayalath Ravi Dissanayake.

He said that around 5,000 elected members of local councils throughout the country and about 1,500 members of the public would be identified and nominated to assist the District Delimitation Commissions in redemarcating the electoral boundaries.

A delimitation was being carried out at national level on the advise of President Mahinda Rajapaksa after a lapse of almost three decades following the war victory in 2009.

Secretary to the Ministry of Local Government and Provincial Councils, Keerthi Ranawaka said yesterday that the subject Minister A. L. M. Athaullah, in consultation with the Minister of Public Administration and Home Affairs, W. D. J. Seneviratne had appointed a senior SLAS official Jayalath Ravi Dissanayake to Chair the National Delimitation Commission (NDC).

He said that the other members of the NDC were SLAS officials H. G. Premasiri, Wimal Rubesinghe and A. A. H. M. Nehiya and Attorney-at-Law Andavan Devaraja.

Dissanayake said that the 25 District Delimitation Commissions would be chaired by the respective District Secretaries and comprise the Assistant Commissioner of Elections from the respective district, representatives of the Census and Statistics Department, Surveyor General, Provincial Minister of Local Government and a member nominated by the subject Minister of Local Government and Provincial Councils.

Dissanayake said that the Commission members has had one sitting at the Ministry of Local Government and Provincial Councils and three sittings at the Commissions's secretariat so far.

All Chairmen of the District Delimitation Commissions (DDC), the Government Agents, had been instructed to create an awareness among the general public about the delimitation exercise, obtain their opinion and prepare an interim draft on recommendations which should be forwarded to the National Delimitation Commission, he said.





Skills development should be part of school curriculum – UN Expert

Skills development should be included in the school's curriculum from Grade I, Youth Development Expert, attached to the United Nations, Ravi Karkara said yesterday.

Karkara who is on a short visit to Sri Lanka, yesterday met officials of the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Skills Developmen including the Chairman of National Institute of Business Management and Vice Chancellor of the University of Vocational Technology, Working Director of the National Youth Services Council Milinda Rajapaksha at the Ministry.

Karkara said that Sri Lanka was the only country that links youth affairs with skills development as a ministry.

"Sri Lanka could be developed to be the youth leadership training centre in Asia," the expert said.

Karkara said that the global youth force should get involved in the global development process and it should be the main focus of future youth policies.

Working Director of the National Youth Services Council Milinda Rajapaksha said that Sri Lanka's first ever National Youth Policy would be introduced next year.

He said a fourth of the Sri Lankan population was youth and there should be a youth policy prepared to involve 5.6 million youths in national development.

"We will collect public opinion through the Sri Lanka Federation of Youth Clubs and selected non-governmental organizations," he said adding that they would collect opinion from all sectors of the society from grassroots to intellectual levels.

According to him, two national committees have already been appointed to draft the policy.









Davis Cup to begin on Friday

January 30, 2013, 7:51 am

By Revata S. Silva

The official pre-event Davis Cup media briefing was held yesterday, January 29, at the team hotel, the Cinnamon Lakeside, in Colombo. This was to announce the Davis Cup by BNP Paribas Asia-Oceania Zone Group-II Round 1 tie, to be staged at the Sri Lanka Tennis Association (SLTA) clay courts in Colombo from next Friday to Sunday.

Though the better-ranked (53 in the ITF country ranking) Pakistan has never lost a Davis Cup tie against Sri Lanka (63), out of five previous meetings, Sri Lanka is expected to have a thorough home advantage in this significant international tennis encounter, it was revealed. The winner will be assured of retaining their place in the Zonal Group-II for another year while the losing nation will have to fight it out to avoid relegation in next April's Round 2 tie.





Champika removed to please India says Tissa

January 29, 2013, 10:20 pm

by Zacki Jabbar

The government had removed Patali Champika Ranawaka from the post of Power and Energy Minister to please India, the UNP alleged yesterday.

General Secretary of the UNP, Tissa Attanayake told a news conference in Colombo, that it was Ranawaka who had resisted moves to give New Delhi a free hand in commissioning the Sampur Coal Power Plant, which was scheduled for 2016.

The former Power Minister was opposed to the terms of agreement and that was the reason for him being moved out to the Ministry of Technology Research and Atomic Energy, in Monday's Cabinet reshuffle, he noted.

Attanayake, alleged that External Affairs Minister G. L. Peiris, during his ongoing visit to New Delhi, had assured VVIP's there that they would be given total control of the Sampur project.

The Rajapaksa regime by pleasing India was hoping that it would not support a resolution that was to be moved against Sri Lanka by some western countries, at the United Nations Human Rights Council annual session, slated for March, he observed.

Attanayake, said that the sudden Cabinet reshuffle was obviously not performance oriented, but purely to pacify its biggest neighbour and also reward those who had worked overtime during the impeachment of Chief Justice Shirani Bandranayake.





Basil washes hands off FDI, dumps it on Luxman - UNP

January 29, 2013, 12:00 pm

Having failed miserably to attract even half the USD 2.0 billion target of Foreign Direct Investments for 2012 and with the writing on the wall for 2013, minister Basil Rajapaksa had conveniently passed the headache to Luxman Yapa Abeywardene, UNP National List MP Dr. Harsha de Silva said.

In a statement issued to the media, Dr De Silva said: "The first test is to see if he succeeds in completing the delayed payment from Krrish Group for the 4-acre Transworks land that was handed over without any transparent procedure. As deputy minister on 24 November 2012 he announced that Krrish would complete the full payment of LKR 5,000 million by 15 December 2012. It is now known that this has not materialized.

"The fact, as we have subsequently unearthed, is that the payment-plan has been altered three times in total contravention to the Cabinet decision No. 11/0803/519/010 of 4 April 2011. The original legal agreement was that Krrish would make a 20 percent payment immediately and the remaining 80 percent at the time of signing the lease agreement. The payment plan however had been amended without a new Cabinet approval on 30 July to pay 10 percent immediately, 50 percent on signing the lease agreement and the remaining 40 percent in 6 months. Then once again it had been amended without Cabinet approval to make a 10 percent payment immediately and thereafter to make the remaining 90 percent payment at on signing the lease agreement.

"However according to the newly appointed minister 10 percent had been paid and around the day the remaining 90 percent was to be paid, that is 15 December 2012 as per his own statement in Parliament, another 28 percent had been paid. This is a strange development to say the least, as according to statements in Parliament the only hindrance in signing the lease agreement was the vesting on two small blocks of land to the UDA, but that too had been completed several weeks back.

It seems that Krrish, who is desperately attempting to raise money locally by pre-selling apartments at over LKR 100 million per unit, is unable to come up with the money.

"However before passing judgment on the new minister of investment promotion we shall see how quickly he gets the Krrish Group to make the now seriously overdue payment."





Serena will rebound from poor show at Australian Open

Serena Williams looked stunningly mortal as she was bounced from the Australian Open by 19-year-old American Sloane Stephens in the quarterfinals.

No one expected Williams to exit the tournament that early, and the loss left some speculating that the 3-6, 7-5, 6-4 loss signaled a changing of the guard in American tennis.

That was not a changing of the guard. That was Serena's body failing her.

During that match, Serena tweaked her back.

There was a stretch of this match where Serena was basically serving at half speed. She couldn't get the lift to generate her massive power on her first serve. She was also stiff in her on-court movement.

Her back seemed to loosen as she progressed, but that didn't mean she was healthy. Earlier in the tournament, Serena tweaked her ankle, and it was apparently far from healed for her quarterfinal match.

How was she even playing on that ankle? If my ankle were that swollen I'd struggle to make it to my fridge from the couch, let alone play tennis.

It is a testament to how tuned Serena's game is right now that she could win any matches on that ankle.

However, those injuries will heal, and we are talking about a player who, prior to her loss in Australia, hadn't dropped a match since last Aug. 17 and hadn't lost in a major since last year's French Open.

Serena simply needs her body to cooperate, and she will win at least another major this season to add to her total of 15.

We can safely rule out Serena winning the next major: the French Open. The clay court is not tailored to her power game, and she has only won the French once and that was way back in 2002.

Wimbledon and the U.S. Open are another story. Serena won both last year, and she has won the two a combined nine times during her career. She will add to that total this season.





CA Sri Lanka Vice President Arjuna Herath, Chief Executive Officer Aruna Alwis and Council Member and Alternate Chairman of the Training & Development Committee SanjayaBandara were also present at the event.

The three-year long practical training is an integral part of the institute's study programme and the Institute believes that these partnerships with training organisations will benefit its trainees and the accounting profession as a whole.





Indo-Lanka Relations:

Translating good intentions to mutually beneficial outcomes

The Pathfinder Foundation (PF) in a statement welcomed the progress made at the 8th meeting of India-Sri Lanka Joint Commission (22 January 2013) in advancing bilateral relations.

"The PF notes that a number of the conclusions found in the Communiqué of the Joint Commission are closely aligned with the recommendations contained in Indo-Lanka Joint Study Group report sponsored by the Pathfinder Foundation and Manipal Global Education (MaGE) of India, a civil society (Track 2) initiative involving a group of experts from the two countries, in early January," the think-tank said.

"The Communiqué gives credence to the basic premise in the Study Group Report that the relationship between Sri Lanka and India is a multifaceted one, which has scope for significant expansion and rapid improvement in the coming years. In this connection, PF is encouraged not only by the signing of agreements on combating terrorism and drug- trafficking as well as double taxation avoidance, but also by the decision to begin discussions on developing a framework for a special economic relationship between the two countries. The agreement to initiate a dialogue between the Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Economic Development, Sri Lanka and the Commerce Secretary, India is to be lauded. The Joint Commission has recognized the importance of further deepening of trade, tourism and investment relations, while acknowledging the advances already made in these areas.

"The Study Group Report also recognized that India had a major role to play in the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the conflict-affected areas. In this connection, the Joint Commission has noted with satisfaction that progress has been made in the implementation of several projects involving the delivery of basic services, restoration of livelihoods, rehabilitation of people and development of infrastructure. The benefits of enhancing connectivity and people-to-people exchanges have also received attention. The Joint Commission has also endorsed collaboration in the area of energy security, including power generation and renewable sources of energy. India's role in developing education, training and skills development, including English language training, in Sri Lanka, has been included along with a number of initiatives to strengthen cooperation in the field of cultural relations. The Pathfinder Foundation is pleased that these areas, which have featured in the recommendations of the Study Group Report, have been included in the Joint Commission Communiqué.

"The Study Group Report has an important Annexure on the Sustainable Management of Fisheries and Other Marine Resources in the Palk Bay, including the establishment of a Joint Mechanism for this purpose. It provides a framework for addressing this sensitive issue in a balanced and humane way. Fisheries issue, being a major recurring irritant in Indo Sri Lanka relations, PF is hopeful that the several recommendations contained in this section of the report would receive urgent attention of the two governments and be addressed expeditiously through a process of consultation and cooperation.

"While PF welcomes the commonalities to be found in the Joint Commission Communiqué and the Study Group recommendations, the ultimate objective has to be to translate these good intentions to practical outcomes that establish a stable and robust framework for mutually beneficial bilateral relations, which result in the upliftment of the lives of the peoples of the two countries. In this connection, one must recall that good intentions and positive sentiments have characterized previous Joint Communiqués as well.

"However, it is common knowledge that translation of words in to deeds has invariably been well below expectations. Consequently, the top three priorities in going forward need to be the three 'I's: implementation, implementation and implementation. In this regard, there is a role for the two governments, businesses communities and civil society in the two countries in this respect. Time is of the essence, as the advantages accruing to Sri Lanka from any new Indo- Sri Lanka economic cooperation agreement are being eroded day-by-day by the preferential trade and investment agreements India is signing with host of other countries, including ASEAN and the EU. Sri Lanka better bear in mind that consideration is being given by India for commencing negotiations for a Free Trade Agreement with the US as well, and implications of such an agreement its economy," the Pathfinder Foundation said.





Proposed Indian football league fails to take off

January 29, 2013, 9:19 pm

by Manik Bannerjee

KOLKATA, India (AP) — A proposed Indian professional football league that was to feature the likes of former Argentina striker Hernan Crespo and Italy's World Cup-winning captain Fabio Cannavaro, has been scrapped owing to logistic problems.

The five-team tournament planned on the lines of the successful franchise-based Indian Premier League cricket tournament was announced with much fanfare by the Indian Football Association but things failed to move after a players' auction in January last year.

"The main reasons for not pursuing the project further were logistics like the unavailability of stadia and the backing out of some of the franchises for commercial reasons," IFA secretary-general Utpal Ganguly told The Associated Press. "Besides, the timing of the league was not suitable for foreign players."

The league was originally planned for February-March last year before being postponed indefinitely.

Indian football has always had a problem of infrastructure with former coach Bog Houghton of England citing as one of the main reasons for the lack of progress in the game. India is currently placed 166th in the FIFA rankings.

Anilava Chatterjee of private firm Grey Mind, which had bought one of the five franchise teams, said the problem lay with getting stadiums in smaller towns of the eastern Indian state of West Bengal.

"We were told there were problems in getting grounds, especially in the smaller districts and the project was thus aborted," Chatterjee told AP.

This tournament was being seen as a chance to supplement the effort of national body All India Football Federation and its own competition called the I-League.

The AIFF has managed to get in big money into the game. IMG-Reliance — a partnership between IMG Worldwide and Indian company Reliance Industries Ltd. — signed a 15-year deal with AIFF in 2010 worth $140 million for all commercial rights to promote and market football in the country of 1.2 billion people.

Foreign clubs like Manchester United, Liverpool and Bayern Munich have also been organizing activities in a bid to increase their presence in India.

Event management firm Celebrity Management Group, which was a partner in the league project, though is contemplating a different league at some point in time.

"We were organizing the tournament on behalf of the IFA," CMG executive director Bhaswar Goswami told AP. "After the initial planning, IFA decided not to go ahead with the project. But we are planning another project together, almost on the same lines."





Bowser driver masters fuel robbery

January 29, 2013, 10:16 pm

By Madura Ranwala

An owner of a filling station at Wariyagoda in Alawwa, who allegedly purchased 13,200 litres of fuel, valued at Rs. 1,080,000, belonging to another fuel station in Horawapathana, from a crooked bowser driver, was remanded till February 8, when he was produced before the Wariyapola Magistrate yesterday.

According to informed sources, the driver, after selling the fuel, had abandoned the bowser at Nawinna in Kurunegala and had then been attempting to leave the country. The Wariyapola police had obtained a warrant to arrest the main suspect, but he has used every trick in the book to evade arrest so far. He too is a resident of Alawwa.

Police spokesman SSP Prishantha Jayakody told The Island that a driver, who transported fuel to a filling station at Horawapathana, in a bowser belonging to the aforesaid filling station, from the Sapugaskanda Oil Refinery on January 19, had asked his helper to buy him a bottle of water from a shop on the way as he was thirsty. He had then sped off leaving the helper behind at around 7.30 p.m.

The Wariyapola police who investigated the incident, first traced the bowser to Nawinna junction in Kurunegala with the assistance of the Kurunegala police.





Queen to abdicate

January 29, 2013, 10:04 pm

THE HAGUE, Netherlands (AP) — The Netherlands' Queen Beatrix announced Monday that she is ending her reign after 33 years and passing the crown to her eldest son, who has long been groomed to be king but who will have to work hard to match his mother's popularity.

The widely expected abdication comes at a time of debate over the future of the largely ceremonial Dutch monarchy, but also as calm has descended upon the Netherlands after a decade of turmoil that saw Beatrix act as the glue that held together an increasingly divided society.

"Responsibility for our country must now lie in the hands of a new generation," Beatrix, one of Europe's longest-serving monarchs, said in the simple, televised speech announcing her abdication.

The queen, who turns 75 in just a few days, said she will step down from the throne on April 30. That same day, her eldest son, Willem-Alexander, will be appointed king at an inauguration in Amsterdam. He will be the Netherlands' first king since Willem III died in 1890.

Willem-Alexander is a 45-year-old father of three young daughters, an International Olympic Committee member, a pilot and a water management expert.





