President Mahinda Rajapaksa yesterday, while unequivocally condemning the LTTE's savage attacks on a civilian bus at Buttala and a village at Okkampitiya, called on the people to be vigilant in the face of provocation by terrorists, remain calm, and assist the security forces in their efforts to eliminate terrorism from the country.

In a media release the President said: "This further act of savagery on the part of the LTTE should attract to it the opprobrium of all in Sri Lanka and abroad concerned about safeguarding democracy and achieving peace in Sri Lanka.

This is a brazen demonstration to the whole world of its unchanged commitment to terrorism and the absolute rejection of democracy and all norms of civilized behaviour, in the pursuit of its unacceptable goal of separation, which threatens the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Sri Lanka.

Text of the President's statement:

"In unequivocally and severely condemn the explosion carried out by the LTTE at Niyadella in Buttala today, and the subsequent armed attack on the village of Dambeyaya at Okkampitiya, targeting innocent civilians including women and children, and reject with contempt the renewed message of terror and violence sent by the LTTE through these acts of unmitigated brutality.

"I wish to first express my sincere condolences to the families and kin of those killed, and send my good wishes for the speedy recovery of all those injured in these brutal attacks carried out by the terrorists of the LTTE. I also thank all those who have readily volunteered to assist the victims of these attacks in many ways, despite the hardships of the terrain where they have taken place.

"These acts of savagery by the LTTE once again exposes its total commitment to violence and terror, despite the many attempts made to show that it stands for peace in Sri Lanka. It appears that this attack has been carried out to coincide with the abrogation of the Ceasefire Agreement, which comes into effect today. The terrorists of the LTTE may be attempting by these acts of savagery to show Sri Lankans and the world that it is the decision of the government to abrogate the Ceasefire Agreement that is the immediate cause for this carnage caused by it.

"On this occasion we recall how the LTTE carried out a similar act of savagery at Kebethigollawa on 11th July 2006, killing 67 persons and injuring a similar number. There too all the victims were innocent civilians including many women and children. It is also sufficient to recall this and many other similar acts of savagery carried out by the LTTE while this agreement was in place, to show that the LTTE had at no time respected the Ceasefire Agreement.

"This further act of savagery on the part of the LTTE should attract to it the opprobrium of all in Sri Lanka and abroad concerned about safeguarding democracy and achieving peace in Sri Lanka. This is a brazen demonstration to the whole world of its unchanged commitment to terrorism and the absolute rejection of democracy and all norms of civilized behaviour, in the pursuit of its unacceptable goal of separation, which threatens the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Sri Lanka.

"On this occasion I call upon all people of Sri Lanka who value democracy, human values and peace to be even more resolute in their determination to rid this country of the menace of terrorism. I also call upon them to be vigilant in the face of provocation by terrorists, remain calm, and give all assistance to the security forces in the exemplary efforts to eliminate terrorism from our land and bring about a genuine and sustainable peace in Sri Lanka."





