It is with profound appreciation that I express my sincere thoughts of Mr.Alec Robertson, whom I knew for nearly twenty five years. My Association with him was inspiring, challenging and a source of much spiritual and intellectual satisfaction. The more I recollect him, the more questions I am led to ask about Buddhism. The more I understand it, the more I think of his exquisite personality, that went in to making him unique and us different. What better way to spend one's life than being a professional, investigating the intricacies of Buddhism, which is a broad dynamic field with shifting emphasis ans new discovenes.

I have relied on his expertise. He has infused me with enthusiasm, for some of the individual areas of initials; shared new ideas, corrected faulty ones. I owe a debt of gratitude for what I learnt from him, when a thousand questions and qualifications crowded my mind. The remarkable comments made by him will have an everlasting effect on me.

His extempore lectures numbering thousand here and abroad were heralded widely for their spiritual and worldly wisdom He successfully maintained the live lecture format and his purpose was to stimulate and provide thought, while teaching a viewse point that was very helpful. His preachings advanced the knowledge of Buddhism by placing it in the broader context of Sri Lanka culture, drawing on texts, archaeological evidence and inscriptions. His lectures generated a wide range of practical empowerment application's promoting emotional stability, accelerating learning, breaking unwanted habits, overcoming fear, building self-esteem. He was a consummate narrator to children. He used no spell binding tricks of oratory, but just talked to the audience, in general conversational tones, the smile coming and going on the mobile expressive face. His lecture schedule was epic. He was also capable of addressing general audiences with simplicity and direction.

In the last century it was Mr. Alec Robertson, who most explicitly dedicated his whole life to the dissemination of Buddhism. He was a talented broadcaster, authentic journalist, remarkable writer, astounding special cumm narrator. He beautifully elucidated the meaning of the path to enlightenment through his direct spiritual advice and writings. This direct and lucid style made it one of the most accessible introductions to Buddhism. His books provided inspiring and valuable insights. His writings convey a picture of his personal life, his wide ranging knowledge and his thought on issues of global concern on Buddhism. Mr. Robertson lucidly expounded all the suttas and even Abhidhamna, making them easy to understand. His deep knowledge and wisdom on Buddhism is well known nationally and internationally. Long revered as a spiritual force he appealed people to look within, to know the essential four truths, the essence of Buddhism. He has shown how the Buddhist philosophy of impermanence, suffering and egolessness blends with one's life with remarkable clarity. He looked at Buddhism through a newer way of thinking. His life was a consuming quest for knowledge and wisdom. He encompassed a vast range of perspectives of Buddhism .His writings produce a broad portrait of this remarkable person. At their best his articles to various journals, magazines and newspapers throb with unforgettable details, that leave the reader with a vivid sense of various aspects of Buddhism. His articles were truly amazing in their efficiency and originality.

Mr. Robertson must rank as one of the finest broadcasters in English on Buddhism in Sri Lanka to date. This article is inadequate to an introduction of the extraordinary person of many talents and a laudable self-imposed mission. His exemplary life of indescribable richness, which in all its many facets will inspire us to be better human beings. His broadcastings on the four noble truths on kamma of the futility of desires on reprehensibility of the belief in the soul, on Nibbana, rebirth, death paticca samuppada enchanted the public. In his broadcasting lectures one finds in him scholarly treatment of Buddhism. He threw his energy to disseminate his profound knowledge and wisdom in Buddhism with a laird of emotional fluency and serenity.

The triumphant version of his life, tends to portray him as impressive to defeats and humiliation. He was cool and polite, there was steel too. He was firm, assertive and confident. His iron-will, profound wisdom, self- less service, purity, his magnetic personality, exemplary methods to propagate the teaching of the Buddha arecommendable. He displayed intellectual integrity, moral earnestness and spiritual insight. He was a true Buddhist, one who had relationships, friendships, marriage, family and an eminent life.





