The usually (or maybe unusually) demanding cricket fans in Australia must have suffered their greatest blow of recent times when Graeme Smith's South Africa handed them last Tuesday (Dec. 30) their first series defeat on home soil after 16 long years.

"The echo of the ball flying off the confident bat of South Africa's Hashim Amla yesterday was the death rattle of Australia's record 16 years without a series loss at home... Analysts investigating Australia's dramatic Test cricket demise say there are no suspicious circumstances. It simply followed a short illness complicated by player arrogance, chronic selection short-sightedness, poor captaincy decisions,..." – 'Australian cricket dead and buried' by Ray Chesterton, The Daily Telegraph (Sydney), Dec. 31, 2008

The simple fact that South Africa haven't lost a Test series since July, 2006 while winning nine, and that they had maintained a world record win-loss Test count of 11-02 in 2008 impliy a single truth. The world cricket crown, at least in Tests, has toppled from the Australian captain Ricky Ponting's head to Graeme Smith, the unceremoniously gritty and youngest ever skipper of the South Africa national team.

The power base of world cricket is in a period of transition. Australia who imperiously held sway in international cricket has shown more than enough signs of losing their empire built slowly yet meticulously since 1994, firstly under masterful Mark Taylor, Steve Waugh 'the warrior' and his successor, this sensational batsman, Ponting. That was since the retirement of legendary Alan Border in 1993. But now the siege is on Down Under. Enter Smith, Prince, de Villiers, McKenzie, Amla, Kallis, Steyn, Boucher and Ntini, etc, of the Proteas team, the tables have surely turned.

It is only the game that will thrive, with added venom, with this symbolic invasion of the kangaroo kingdom of cricket. New stories of bravery, tears of anguish and despair will rewrite the unending chronicle of this great sport, resuscitating and recreating the great spirit of cricket at a time of turmoil, under the influence of overwhelming commercialism.

"Tugga" –

It was as far back as on Feb. 1, 1993 that the Australians have gone through some agony when West Indies, led by Richie Richardson and his fast bowling battalion consisting Ambrose, Walsh, Bishop and Anderson Cummins, defeated them in Perth by 2-1 in a five-mach series. That was when Border was bidding adieu from the international arena after their great World Cup win in India in 1987 and the regaining of Ashes two years later; feats that were often considered milestones in their journey towards world's cricket pinnacle.

Following their humiliating World Cup final defeat against a roaring bunch of Lankans in 1996, under Taylor, Australian cricket was looking for a reformation under a new leadership with a bunch of more modern and gritty youngsters. That was with a plan to make a comeback in the following World Cup in 1999 in England.

This is the backdrop when Stephen Waugh, nicknamed "Tugga" (as in tug of war) among the public, came to the scene with a thunder. He later made a legacy for himself as a fearless leader and a man with a knack of admiring nature. And. for his unstinted involvement in social service like 'Udayan,' the home he made for the impoverished leper children in Calcutta, 'Tugga' was bestowed with the Order of Australia award in 2003.

"He was in a trance-like state [during a match in the 1994-05 Windies tour of the Sir Frank Worrell series]. (I)n the wee hours of the second morning, a security guard was found rifling through Steve's kit bag. That incident ... didn't affect his concentration. It all ... just went to show how strong a character he was." – Paul Reiffel in 'We'll take it from here' (Wisden Asia Cricket)

Waugh has had a habit of retiring to bed in his cricket whites, socks and baggy green after some matches in the same series. Reiffel says "(Y)ou could say that Steve's legacy gained a lot of momentum from his efforts at Jamaica." (ibid)

The Aussie cricketing supremacy was not built overnight nor was it built through critics alone. It was an outcome of a painstaking and long term planning, stories of bravery and great spirit.

New Era and SL? –

With the drama unfolding in Australian cricket as the Aussies meet the Proteas in the next Test at SCG, there possibly be an end to their long stay in the No.1 spot of the ICC Test rankings. Whatever happens there, one thing is certain. International cricket will herald a new era with the new-look adventure of these South Africans who have now been able to orchestrate a revival after that tragic Cronje-related scenario which virtually demolished an emerging cricket super power into pieces after their readmission to world cricket.

With such a turnaround, cricket will only get a better look and it would certainly attract more enthusiasts from vast, distant continents. The brave 'Tuggas' and sharp administrators will herald such fine days to a national structure. Where are the real warriors and the far-sighted administrators who will one day create a similar turnaround in Sri Lankan cricket?





