Jayatissa Perera has imputed stupidity to my factual statement that the generous Sinhala kings accorded domicile to the warring Tamils. It is pitiable that Perera has dared to get embroiled in this discourse without knowledge of the history of the Dravidian in Ceylon. Tamils emigrated and even migrated illegally in desperation as their homeland could not accommodate them due to the poor economic status of South India and the vicious exploitation of the British rulers. Ceylon was a haven.

King Dutugemunu having felled conquistador King Elara of India, respectfully stipulated that no one, not even one borne on a palanquin, should pass his grave without alighting and paying obeisance to the fallen Tamil. That sums up the respect the Sinhala king and his people rendered to the Tamils.

Perera's association with Bernard Soysa was like water on a ducks back. I suggest that he re-read my earlier reply. Him being with Phillip Gunawardena on the same platform only confirms that he is a renegade from leftism who is basking in the perks liberally offered by the conservative Right. Phillip's ambition was to use his agricultural training in America for the furtherance of the economy of his country and since time was running out and the UNP was in power he went over to that party and was given the portfolio of Agriculture. He did not renege for perks, for he was from a rich, influential, landowning family in Borulugoda.

Sinhala, only backed by the Buddhist priests and the Sinhala educated, was to be the state language. It was canvassed as a ruse to evict the English- speaking, British blood- suckers. It was no amicable settlement for the white men who stayed behind together with the compradore Ceylonese brown sahibs and the right wing politicians led by Buddharakkitha Thero of the Kelaniya Viharaya, together with his constant female companion who was a minister in the right wing government that yielded to the SLFP of S. W. R. D. Bandaranaike, being peeved and piqued conspired to assassinate Bandaranaike and succeeded. What the conspirators did not bargain for was that housewife, Sirimavo, his wife, who he left behind, catapulted into his shoes. She filled the gap with aplomb. She governed for near 12 years and was replaced by the UNP. The holocaust of 1983 was not state- sponsored.

The war- mongering Norwegians supported Anton Balasingham and Prabahkaran to demand a separate state of Tamil Eelam as the Tamil homeland. Jayatissa Perera should understand that Sri Lanka was and will remain the home of the Tamils, Muslims, Sinhalese and all communities resident. That is what the Commander in Chief, President Mahinda Rajapaksa and his brave security forces, are battling for: to consolidate peace for all Sri Lankans.





