CHITTAGONG, Bangladesh (AP) - Gautam Gambhir hit his fifth century in as many Tests to help India toward a winning position in the first Test, as the visitors set Bangladesh an unlikely winning target on day four Wednesday.

India, with a one-run lead on first innings, declared at 413-8 to set Bangladesh a target of 415 for victory. At stumps, the hosts were 67-2, with its inexperienced lineup likely to be concentrating more on denying India's bowlers on the final day rather than chasing down the remaining 348 runs for victory.

Bangladesh's highest-ever fourth innings total was 413 against Sri Lanka in 2008, while India had never conceded more than 369 when bowling in a fourth innings.

Bangladesh opener Imrul Kayes (1) was caught behind off the bowling of Zaheer Khan, while Shahriar Nafees (21) got a thick edge to an Ishant Sharma delivery and was caught at gully.

When stumps was called prematurely for bad light, Tamim Iqbal was unbeaten on 23 and Mohammad Ashraful was not out on 16.

In the opening session, Gambhir reached his ninth Test century, complete with 10 fours and a six. He has scored a half century in ten straight Tests, and centuries in five in a row - one shy of the record.

Gambhir's partnership with night watchman Amit Mishra had reached 98 runs when Mishra was caught off the bowling of Mahmudullah, trying to loft the ball over mid-off. He scored 50 off 70 balls.

Gambhir was next to go, cutting a ball to third man to deliver a first Test wicket to Shafiul Islam.

Rahul Dravid (24) was run out by a direct hit by Shakib Al Hasan. Attempting a quick single, Dravid paid the price for placing his bat over the crease rather than sliding it in.

Sachin Tendulkar, the first innings century maker, was out lbw to Rubel Hossain for 16 shortly after lunch break.

Yuvraj Singh (25) was caught at cover off the bowling of Shahadat Hossain and Dinesh Karthik (27) went when Rubel Hussein took a diving catch at mid-off, giving offspinner Mohammad Mahmudullah his second scalp.

India chose to bat on briefly after tea, having been 384-7 at the interval. V.V.S. Laxman was unbeaten on 69 off 89 balls.





