Many articles were published in your newspaper related to above noted subject by many eminent personalities including religious scholars, animal welfare activists and medical doctors etc. Vegetarianism is promoted or encouraged by these authors mainly quoting one or more of the following reasons:

1. On religious grounds where the consumption of meat promotes volitional killing of the living and therefore, it hampers the purification of mind.

2. On humanitarian grounds where killing another living being is inhuman or evil conduct.

3. On medical grounds that pure vegetarian diet is a sure way for healthy living and even for longer life.

With due respect to those who argue against vegetarianism one can imagine that the above noted reasons are undisputable facts and these reputed personalities are carrying out a commendable campaign against non-vegetarianism that requires slaughtering of animals or harvesting of fish.

The crux of the matter here is why then the majority or approximately, 95% of the total world population defy such worthy advice of these experts and continue to carry on with the consumption of meat and fish. Are majority of them non-religious, inhuman or not health conscious?

I can offer the most probable answer to this question as follows:

1. All major religions including Christianity and Islam with the exception of Buddhism, Hinduism and Jainism etc do not prescribe vegetarianism to their followers. Therefore, vegetarianism does not derive wider support from major religions.

2. In ecological system, to maintain the food chain herbivorous feast on plants whereas carnivorous feast on herbivorous. Therefore, killing for food is not evil and it is not treated as wanton cruelty Man, being created as omnivore in this ecological system does not carry the culpability for slaughtering animals for food.

3. In nutritional science it has been proved that eating in moderation of any edible nutritional foods including meat & fish can provide reasonably healthy life and sustain the life for a reasonably long period. Therefore, vegetarianism does not merit a serious consideration for healthy living.

In conclusion, it can be said that slaughtering of animals and harvesting of fish are the necessary evils during the existence of mankind on this planet and non-vegetarianism shall be exercised in moderation and with responsibility towards other sentient lives that are slaughtered or harvested for food.

In Sri Lankan context it is necessary to make a clear distinction on why Muslims and Christians practice non-vegetarianism while a good number of Buddhists, Hindus and free thinkers are vegetarians.

The permission to use cattle for both carrying goods and eating their flesh is given in Quran as follows:

Chapter 6 Verse142 "Of the cattle are some for burden and some for meat: eat what Allah hath provided for you, and follow not the footsteps of Satan: for he is to you an avowed enemy".

The warning of the Satan (devil) followed by the permission to eat meat is to remind us of our responsibility not to abuse the power vested in men. Following the footsteps of Satan means slaughtering the animals in any way other than what is prescribed in the religion, transporting them in appaling conditions and killing them for sports etc.

Therefore, it is important for both vegetarians and non-vegetarians to realise and respect each others practices and sensitivities in this matter.





