One of the major constraints in the building construction industry has been the serious scarcity of skilled labour such as masons, carpenters and technicians. For such jobs, there is also a heavy demand in the foreign job market. It is estimated that there are around 40,000 vacancies in the building construction industry in Sri Lanka.

The Federation of Chambers of Commerce and Industry of Sri Lanka (FCCISL) has now teamed up with Handwerks Kammer Koblenz Germany and the Sri Lanka National Construction Association to train a large number of youth in skills training in the building construction industry to meet this dire requirement. The investment on this training programme is Rs 200 million.

The scheme is branded as "Handwerk Centres (HWC) and the training is to be conducted at three centres. One centre at Kalutara is already in operation and the two other centres will be set up in Galle and Amparai. These centres would take the shape of 'One-Stop-Shop' as all activities concerning building construction industry will be trained in them.

HWC will provide different types of courses termed 'short', 'long' and 'dual' training in the fields such as masonry, carpentry, welding, air conditioning, and plumbing, electrical wiring and painting. Comprehensive training is guaranteed and a rare opportunity offered for those who wish to obtain overseas jobs in these fields.

There are courses for durations of 2 to 4 weeks as well as three-year comprehensive courses. They are practically oriented and also the trainees would get a chance of getting trained on modern machinery and equipment used in the construction industry.

The instructors and lecturers for the training courses comprise local and foreign trainers.

Sri Lankans who wish to get employment in foreign countries have to invariably opt for labour type of jobs as they would be unskilled. Acquiring training in these areas would undoubtedly enhance their employability as 'skilled labourers' which necessarily entail higher salaries than that paid to unskilled labourers.

In case of those already working in Sri Lanka, should they qualify in thee skills training programme, their emoluments would be enhanced by 40 per cent. - FCCISL





