If he survived LTTE attack: Janaka Perera would have been Opp. candidate – Kongahage

by Shamindra Ferdinando

Presidential candidate Sarath Kongahage said that had Major General (redt) Janaka Perera survived an LTTE attack directed at a UNP rally in Anuradhapura over a year ago, he would have been the chief Opposition presidential candidate.

In that case a marriage between the UNP and JVP, too, wouldn't have materialised and they would have most probably fielded separate candidates, he said.

The former UNP National List MP revealed that the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) had recorded a statement of his wife, Shanthini as she had nursed the Medawachchiya electorate at the last elections to the North Central Province. Perera, who polled over 100,000 preferential votes at the polls held the post of the Opposition Leader of the NCP at the time of his assassination.

According to Kongahage, an LTTE operative, who had been tasked with moving a suicide cadre to the venue of the attack, met with his wife during the campaign. The operative based at Medawachchiya had identified himself as a Muslim and worked with the UNP right throughout the NCP campaign until the assassination, he said.

Kongahage said that the Medawachchiya-based operative now in custody had received Rs. 6.5 million from the LTTE. Immediately after the assassination, a section of the UNP accused the government of using an LTTE suicide cadre to finish off the war hero, he said.

Responding to our queries, he said that the incumbent President was facing a severe threat though he could meet any challenge as he did at the last presidential polls in November 2005. The Opposition with the backing of an influential section of the then administration had planned to arrest the then Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa over alleged misappropriation of tsunami rehabilitation and reconstruction funds. The presidential candidate said that he was asked to cover the then PM being produced at Aluthkade as he held a top position at a private media network. Had that happened, the situation would have been different today, he said adding that he promptly alerted the Rajapaksa camp and help thwart the Opposition plot.

He said that a section of the then government had helped the Opposition to undermine Rajapaksa's campaign though he received nominations to contest the last presidential polls.

Referring to a recent bid to bribe UPFA MP M. Musammil, Kongahage said that this was evidence of the Opposition strategy to win the forthcoming presidential and parliamentary polls at any cost. Dismissing UNP efforts to discredit Musammil, he said that the Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption and the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) could easily trace the bribe to the UNP through UNP National List MP Myown Mustapha and former presidential advisor Nazeer Ahmed. The UNP, Mustapha and Ahmed had vehemently denied the allegation. Kongahage said that investigators could easily verify the presence of Mustapha, Ahmed and Musammil at the Sapphire, Wellawatte, where the alleged transaction took place.

He said that the Opposition was making a desperate bid against the President after its Katakatha Brigade had failed to discredit the Rajapaksas by propagating lies. He said that previous leaders, too, had to face similar smear campaigns by interested parties. He recalled the vicious attacks on the Premadasa family. He expressed confidence that President Rajapaksa could comfortably secure a second term at next week's polls.





