Thousands joined the funeral procession of Sunday Leader editor Lasantha Wickrematunga, who was laid to rest at the General Cemetery, Kannate in Borella yesterday evening.

Security was tight as the crowds thronged for a Christian service at Assembly of God Church in Narahenpita.

Following the final religious ceremonies at the church the funeral procession began to wend its way to the cemetery at about 2:30. p.m. Lasantha was carried on his final journey on the shoulders of his colleagues in both the legal and journalistic professions, politicians and friends after his bier was handed over to them by the family at Thimbirigasyaya.

Anti-government elements turned the funeral procession of the veteran journalist, who was gunned down by unidentified gunmen on Thursday, into a political circus to attack the government over the killing.

Among the over 4,000 in the funeral procession were Lawyers, journalists, old school mates and readers of the Sunday Leader.

A large number sported black arm bands and shouted anti-government slogans demanding that the government arrest the killers and bring them to justice.

Opposition and UNP leader Ranil Wickremesinghe, addressing the gathering, said: "Lasantha never suppressed the truth. He exposed those who suppress people. He did not suppress democratic rights but exposed those who suppress the rights of people. This was the reason why a group in Government had killed him."

"Lasantha was a brave person. He was brave enough to say what he believed to be true. He was suppressed; his press was set on fire. But he never gave in. Members of his staff were threatened and intimidated, offices were attacked, and fellow journalists were put behind bars. But nothing could prevent him exposing corruption."

"Their attack against Lasantha was an attack against the right to information and media freedom. This government wanted to bury the people's right to information and media freedom."

Editor of the Sunday Lankadeepa, Ariyananda Dombagahawatte said: "Lasantha Wickrematunga was a close friend of ours. He was never afraid to use his pen. With his death we have lost some part of media freedom we enjoyed hitherto. With his death people have lost a major part of their right to information. That is the truth. He was the symbol of courage in the media."





