On page 11 in The Island of Dec. 28, 2009, there was the story of a 14-year-old girl subject to long lasting fainting attacks successfully treated by hypnotherapy administered by a chemist. The chemist explains the cure on the basis of "rebirth" and cites the case as proof of the reality of rebirth. I submit that to offer a screamingly obvious case of the mental disorder called "hysteria" as "scientific proof" of a religious belief is at once to discredit science and to devalue religion. Let me explain why I say so. Consider first the facts of the case as reported by the chemist.

Facts of the case

1. A girl, 14, and a boy, 16, live in the same neighbourhood

2. They become friends.

3. The boy's parents prevent him from visiting the girl.

4. The girl becomes subject to long lasting fainting attacks.

5. She recovers from her fainting attacks only when the boy touches her.

Chemist's intervention

and therapy

The girl comes to the chemist for relief. The chemist hypnotizes the girl and discovers that in her previous birth she had been a Tamil Hindu LTTE fighter who had been in love with a Sinhalese soldier called Dinesh. Both of them had been killed on the spot when a truck ran over them on a road in Trincomalee. The chemist claims that "after neutralizing the relevant past life memories she got over the problem of fainting attacks".

As evidence of her previous life the chemist says that under hypnotic trance the girl could perform fighting techniques and Bharatha dance and understand Tamil conversation without having learnt any of them in this life. He claims that these acts prove the fact of her rebirth.

Orthodox medical interpretation

The case of this girl is a straightforward example of what used to be called "hysteria" but is now called a "dissociative disorder". Hysteria is always the outcome of a conflict situation to which mental or physical symptoms manifested by the afflicted person provides some sort of solution to the conflict. The mental symptoms may include loss of memory (amnesia), loss of awareness of one's identity (fugues) or altered states of consciousness such as fainting attacks. Physical symptoms may take the form of paralysis, blindness, loss of voice and even "fits". Hysterical patients almost always have something to gain from their symptoms, but unlike malingerers, they are unaware of the motivation behind their symptoms. The diagnosis of hysteria is therefore based on the following criteria.

(i) The illness is triggered by an unresolved emotional conflict or crucial life event.

(ii) No physical cause can be found for the physical and mental symptoms.

(iii) The symptoms are produced unconsciously.

(iv) The symptoms bestow a gain on the patient.

Diagnosis

In view of the above, it is easy to see that the adolescent girl in this case obviously had a crush on the boy, but things did not go smoothly because of objections raised by the boy's parents. So, the poor girl had a serious unresolved emotional conflict. This conflict was "converted" (as Sigmund Freud would have said) into the physical symptom of "fainting attacks". For these fainting attacks there was no discernible physical cause. She recovered from the fainting attacks only when the boy touched her. Thus, the symptom bestowed on her the opportunity of the loving touch of her boy-friend. No one will doubt that the case of this girl fulfills the diagnostic criteria of "hysteria" to the hilt. To adduce a classic case of hysteria as "scientific proof" of rebirth is to reduce a religious belief shared by millions of people to the level of a farce and a joke. This is the sort of thing that happens when a chemist tries to practise medicine.

Final Comment

Among my friends I count many good Buddhists. One of them once advanced the following argument for his belief in rebirth: "The mystery of our existence is beyond my understanding and perhaps beyond all human understanding. I venerate the Buddha as the most enlightened human being that ever lived. He taught the doctrine of rebirth. It helps me to understand the inequalities of the human condition. Therefore, I believe in rebirth. You are free to take it or leave it". It reduced me to silence.





