Comany Group a wholly Sri Lankan BOI registered conglomerate, with diverse interests in such sectors as Plantations, Real estates in addition to Hospitality trade, has ventured into educational sphere as part of its diversification programme resulting in the establishment of a Central Park International Campus (CPIC) . In partnership with several UK and Australian Universities the CPIC offers as main stream courses both business and IT leading up to degree level.

Beginning from September Engineering and Law would be included to the curriculum for University of London examinations and an accredited course for Journalism is on cards said Somesh Perera Jt. Managing Director.

Amongst languages courses, the Business English course tailor made in accordance to Cambridge syllabus has attracted foreign students with about 100 Japanese students billed to follow the curricula this year he disclosed.

Located in a sprawling 1 1⁄2 acre landscaped compound in Ragagiriya the institution is headed by Dr. Egerton Senanayake former Dean of the Management Faculty - University of Sabaragamuwa and around 15 permanent teaching staff.

Initially students are offered a 1 1⁄2 year course leading to an inter nationally recognised Higher National Diploma after which they can opt to follow another 1 1⁄2 year course of study at a University in UK or in Australia. Amongst the choice of Universities are Anglia Ruskin University UK, University of London and Curtin RMIT in Australia said Somesh Perera Jt. Managing Director of the Central Park Campus and appreciated state blessings for such ventures.

Apart from studies, student character is moulded with a holistic approach. Sports together with recreation facilities and such activities dancing and even fishing in the canal which flows by the campus is encouraged on a no fee leaving basis ( free of charge) as part of the students character building endeavour.

Financial Controller Dilhara Ratnayake said that with private sector institutions of higher learning becoming a reality aspiring students no longer need to go abroad with the added benefit of the country's saving on FOREX.





