To involve Australia and Canada in peace process:JHU accuses Co-chairs of attempt to replace Norway and Japan

by Saman Indrajith

The Jathika Hela Urumaya yesterday accused the Co-chairs of the Tokyo donor conference of an attempt to replace Norway and Japan's involvement in the peace process with Australia and Canada.

"We vehemently oppose this move. There is nothing wrong in removing Norway. As we have always said there is no need for a negotiated settlement but the need for ending the LTTE's terrorism. But if anyone still dreams of any negotiation with the LTTE through foreign intermediaries Canada and Australia do not have a single qualification. Instead the Government should think of friendly Asian nations such as China, India, Pakistan, Iran and Russia," General Secretary of the JHU, Omalpe Sobhitha Thera told The Island yesterday.

The two nations Norway and Japan had handled the political and economic aspects of the failed negotiated settlement during last couple of years. They failed owing to several reasons, the Thera said. "The main sponsors of the so-called quest for peace failed because their knowledge of geopolitics and experience on historical background of South Asia failed them. Japan was the only Asian nation but that too acted within a frame set by the West," Thera said.

The JHU General Secretary reiterating his party's position on negotiated solution for the North East Crisis said there were four conditions before moving into any kind of talks with the LTTE. First, the LTTE must lay down arms. Second, they must abandon their aim of separation. Third, they LTTE must enter the democratic mainstream and fourth, they must accept the Constitution of Sri Lanka.

The Co-chairs pressure to salvage the so-called peace process was aimed at nothing but to save the LTTE, which has been cornered into the Vanni jungles by the security forces. " There is no need of repeating that the co-chairs had been partial to the LTTE's cause. Their proposal of including Canada and Australia too should be viewed against what they have already done to this nation," Sobhitha Thera said.





