It was an important issue to raise about the nation's security. Defence Minister Toshimi Kitazawa referred to the idea of reviewing the nation's three principles banning arms exports. At a meeting with a defense industry group in the middle of this month, Kitazawa said, "I believe it's good to discuss issues that have an adverse effect on business activities and upon maintaining the philosophy of a peaceful state."

However, Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama, in an effort to head off a possible dispute, immediately indicated his government would uphold the three principles. We believe that he did so out of consideration for the Social Democratic Party — the Democratic Party of Japan's coalition partner — which opposes any review of the three principles.

At present, Japan is so restricted by the three principles that this nation is unable to participate in joint development and production of weapons. The defense industry complains loudly about this crisis, insisting that the nation is now isolated from the world in the field of defense technology, and lags behind the rest of the world in technological improvement due to its inability to exchange military technology.

The F-35 stealth fighter jet, a powerful candidate for the Air Self-Defense Force's next-generation mainstay fighter jet, has been developed by nine countries, including Britain and the United States. As Japan has not participated in the development project, it will be lagging substantially behind and the price will be high if it is introduced.

Far-reaching principles

As the definition of arms in the three principles is broad, the nation cannot export four-wheel-drive vehicles that have been partially remodeled for use by the SDF. The situation concerning helmets for the SDF is the same. It is rather expensive to produce the helmets as they can only be sold within the nation.

With the government's defense budget declining for eight consecutive years, a string of companies are withdrawing from the defense industry. When the production of F-2 fighters ceases in fiscal 2011, there will be no domestic production of fighter jets for about five years. It is likely that a large number of companies will withdraw from the industry.

Once companies withdraw from the defense industry and professional engineers are gone, it will not be easy to get back into the business. It is feared that such a shift will affect maintenance and repair of aircraft and naval vessels as parts specially made for the equipment may no longer be produced.

The government should face the facts and recognize that the decline of the defense industry will damage the national interest.

Maintain essential capacity

Even if it is difficult to maintain the current standards in all fields, the government should at least choose certain fields on which to concentrate, and a minimum production and technical base should be secured.

For that purpose, it is vital to present a specific strategy and future vision.

The National Defence Programme Guidelines are scheduled to be revised at the end of this year. It is a perfect opportunity to deepen discussions over reviewing the three principles banning arms exports.

The three principles, which were set in 1967, only aimed at banning arms exports to countries engaged in armed conflicts and the communist bloc.

Although the scope of target was expanded to all countries in 1976, there have been various exceptions, including the joint development of a missile defense system by Japan and the US and material support for antipiracy measures.

One idea is to dial back to the initial scope of the three principles, or to at least allow joint development and production of arms. Such relaxation of the three principles does not contradict Japan's philosophy of a peaceful country.

Getting bogged down in thinking about national security issues and simply continuing the status quo must be avoided.





