The Future is bright: Distinguished UK university rewards young talent in Sri Lanka

By Rebecca Leaver

On Wednesday afternoon, a well dressed crowd adored in suits and saris, began to gather at the main hall of Thurstan College, Colombo. The beautiful grounds of the College provided a beautiful backdrop for the University of Cambridge Young Enterprise International Examinations Awards Ceremony for 2008. As the only examination conducted in Sri Lanka by Cambridge University, the certificates signed by the Vice Chancellor of Cambridge University will remain a distinguishable feature in the students CV's for years to come.

The University of Cambridge Young Enterprise International Examinations is open to all senior students who completed the Company Program run by Young Entrepreneurs of Sri Lanka (YESL), a program in partnership with Junior Achievement Worldwide. As covered by The Island last week, the Company Program is the senior level of the YESL program. Final year students form their own company by electing board members, producing a product, designing and executing a marketing strategy and finally investing profits into local charities. The Cambridge Exam is based entirely on the practical experience students' gain from the Company Program, all questions relate to the hands-on experience students have gained through the ups and downs of their own companies. The special guest speaker at the ceremony, Prof. Lakshman R. Watawala, the President of the Society of Certified Management Accountants of Sri Lanka, noted that "instead of cramming and memorising and answering questions of which they do not see the practical significance" the exam allows students to talk about the real experiences they have gained as businessmen and women in their companies. Prof. Watawala heralded the practical experience gained through the program as putting these students ahead of even university graduates.

This year, forty students were awarded with the prestigious award with a pass, credit or distinction. Although candidates came from all over the country, most visiting just for the day, the boys from Richmond College, Galle dominated the ceremony with twenty-four of their students successfully completing the examination. However, it was the youngest two students from Richmond College, Dilhan Manawadu and Viduranga Thuduwage both 16 years of age who gained the highest honours both receiving distinction passes and quietly surpassing their older counterparts.

Dilhan was the Marketing Director of his company which made products out of bamboo and also friendship bracelets. "The friendship bracelets were a real success at the school cricket matches so the company made massive profits", Dilhan retold excitedly. Dilhan notes that the broad knowledge he has gained through the program and in preparation for the exam about the financial sector, commerce and economics will aid him with his post-school aspiration of becoming a journalist.

Such aspirations sit well with Prof. Watawala's advice that the award winners should become "avid readers of the financial section of the newspaper so as to keep up to date with current issues in the sector".

Obtaining this certificate is not just fruitful for those who wish to become lucrative businessmen and women, as Prof. Watawala made clear, "Even if you are choosing to be a doctor, you will still need to be able to manage your own business". Miss Jayarthna from Kuliyaputuya Saranath Maha Vidyyalaya, 18, is working towards becoming a lawyer. Gaining this certificate has helped her "develop confidence and personality and really good English knowledge so you can communicate with foreigners". Quite apt really as she communicated this with bubbling exuberance, eloquently choosing her words in conversation with a foreign journalist.





