A member of the Presidential Taxation Committee, Dr Saman Kelegama, says a comprehensive report to broaden the tax base and clean up the administration with recommendations for a business and people-friendly tax regime would be ready when the new parliament convenes after elections in April this year.

"The Taxation Commission is serious about cleaning up the tax administration and to ensure the government's revenue base becomes solid," Dr Kelegama, who is the Executive Director of the Institute of Policy Studies, a government thinktank, told the Island Financial Review.

Dr Kelegama declined to comment on the Commission's recommendations.

"All I can say at this point is that we are strongly intending to broaden the tax base and eliminate complications so that the tax regime would business and people friendly," he said.

Dr Kelegama said the first five months of 2010 could be uncertain with Presidential elections this months followed by Parliamentary elections in April.

"What ever happens, the government in power would have to bring down the budget deficit, which has remained to be the root cause of Sri Lanka's macro-economic problems," he said.

The Central Bank, Institute of Policy Studies and the IMF have all said at various times during 2009 that eliminating wasteful expenditure and broadening the tax base would help curtail the budget deficit, warning that a failure to do so could impede Sri Lanka's true growth potential.

The fiscal deficit expanded by 30 percent during the first nine months of this year. Although revenue improved by 12 percent, total government expenditure and net lending increased by 19 percent while capital expenditure — long-term social investments — declined 2.7 percent.

The overall budget deficit for the first nine months of 2009 reached Rs. 322.6 billion or 6.5 percent of GDP increasing 30 percent compared to a deficit of Rs. 246.9 billion for the corresponding period of 2008 which was 5.6 percent of GDP, according to data from the Central Bank.

The Taxation Commission handed over an interim report to the President last November and the final report is expected to be ready by the time the parliamentary election ends this April.

President Mahinda Rajapaka mooted the Taxation Commission when he delivered the 2009 budget to parliament in November 2008.

The President said the country's tax rate eroded as a result of various concessions granted from 1977 to promote investments.

"Different tax rates prevail in the country, for entrepreneurs in the same region. Local entrepreneurs have been subjected to second class treatment," Rajapakse said when he presented the 2009 budget proposals to parliament.

"A tax system that lacks transperancy has evolved consequent to there being no consolidated or coordinated approach between revenue administration institutions such as the Inland Revenue Department, Customs and the BOI," he said.

Sri Lanka's rankings in Paying Taxes 2009 report

Sri Lanka ranked 164th out of 181 economies for ease of paying taxes in a 'Paying Taxes 2009' report compiled by the World Bank Group and PriceWaterHouseCoopers.

Sri Lanka has a total of 62 tax payments that must be paid for a given year. There are 5 corporate income taxes, 24 labour tax payments and 33 other taxes; and this gives the country a ranking of 170.

The country is ranked 96th for the time taken per year to comply with taxes. The time taken to comply with these taxes is estimated at 256 hours a year. Corporate income tax time is 16 hours a year, labour tax time amounts to 96 hours and the time taken to comply with consumption tax amounts to 144 hours a year.

Sri Lanka's total tax rate is 63.7 percent according to the report which gave Sri Lanka a ranking of 157.

The total tax rate for corporate income tax is 26.5 percent, 16.9 percent in labour taxes and 20.3 percent in other taxes.





