Douglas Devananda, Secretary General of the EPDP and Minister of Social Services and Social Welfare, presented his proposals to the Prelates of Asgiriya and Malwatte Chapters concerning his party's 3 staged proposal aimed at resolving the problem of political rights of the Tamil Speaking People yesterday (26.12.2007).

The proposal included the establishment of two Interim Executive Councils for the North and East and many others for the administration of the two provinces. The Minister presented the memoranda containing the proposals to the Prelates. The Minister's proposals suggest establishing Interim Executive Councils, until such time the Provincial Councils are set up to aid and advise the respective Governors and His Excellency the President.

The Interim Executive Council shall consist of five members who will be appointed by the President from among representatives of the general public of the respective provinces. One among them will be appointed as Chairman of the council by the President. There shall be a Joint Executive Council to assist the Governors in respect of matters of Mutual interest to the Northern Provincial Administration and Eastern Provincial Administration, ill the opinion of both Councils. The Chief Secretary of' the Provincial Council will be the Secretary to the Interim Executive Council the subjects under the 5 Provincial Ministers shall be divided and appropriately assigned among the 5 member of the Interim Executive Council for purpose of co-ordination.

In addition, there shall be an Expert Committee consisting experts/professionals on subjects devolved to the Provincial Councils Lip to a maximum of ten in number.

Ven. Thibbatuwawe Sri Siddhartha Mahanayake Thero having listened to the Minister, stated that he had come to know about the Minister's proposal and views through the media. And that it was possible to resolve the problem of political rights of the Tamil Speaking People and achieve peace and harmony by resorting to the Minister's proposals. Thero also said that he was happy that Minister came to see him.

The Prelate speaking further said that valuable lives had been lost due to more than two decades of protracted civil war, and the sole intention of Prabhakaran, the LTTE leadership was to set up his hypothetical kingdom no matter how many lives were lost. Therefore the leaders in the South having realized this, ought to take corrective steps to defeat him whilst providing with a solution to the Tamil Speaking People, as had been pointed out by the Minister. Thero also said that His Excellency the President-even now was keen to bring about a negotiated settlement, but there was no one he could talk to in the warring faction, and Prabhakaran had no liking whatsoever for peace. Having grasped this stance, a solution to the Tamil Speaking People should be sought, at Provincial Council level in the line the Minister had suggested. Thero also did make it a point to mention that he would speak about this matter to the President on his next visit to the temple. Ven. Thero chanted "Seth Pirith" and blessed the Minister for success in his endeavour and also presented the Hon. Minister a souvenir with a Buddhist Statue.

After this the Minister met Ven. Udugama Sri Buddharakkhitha Mahanayake Thero of Asgiriya Chapter and handed him the Minister's memorandum containing his proposals. Here too, the Minister explained to the most Ven. Thero that the problems of the Tamil Speaking People were far wide apart from those of the Tigers. Minister Devananda speaking to the Thero said that the problem of the Tigers was terrorist in nature. And so long as Prabhakaran lived this problem could not be solved because he feared the emergence of a democratic leader would cause the people to gather round him. Having received the set of proposals Ven. Buddharakkhitha Thero stated "It is of necessity to find a lasting political solution to the national problem after having fought terrorism. I am of the view that this set of proposals could be of immense use towards this effort"

Speaking further the Thero stated that from the out set itself lie supported the view that devolution of power was the sure way to solve the problem of Tamil Speaking People. He also said that he would speak to the President about the Minister's suggestions when His Excellency next paid a visit to his temple. Both the prelates also made it a point to indicate that, as this set of proposals emanated form the Constitution itself, it was more practical than a totally new set of proposals. Ven. Theros wished strength and courage to prevail with the Minister so that he could help create a United Sri Lanka where all communities could live with peace harmony and honour. They added that they were happy to see the Minister survive in spite of 13 attempts on his life by the Tiger leadership. The Hon. Minister was served with refreshments at both temples.

Miss. Maheshwary Velautham, Attorney-At-Law and Advisor to the, Minister, Mr. Nelson Edirisinghe, Media Secretary to the Minister and Mr. Upali Jinadasa, an EPDP member participated at the discussion.





