The Centre for Monitoring of Election Violence (CMEV) will deploy 675 monitors at polling centres for the forthcoming Wayamba and Central Provincial Council elections to be held on February 14, a statement issued by the CMEV said.

Following are excerpts from the statement issued by the CMEV:

"The Centre for Monitoring Election Violence (CMEV) will be monitoring the upcoming Provincial Council Elections on 14 February 2009 in the Central and North - Western Provinces. We would like to inform all the political parties, independent groups and other relevant parties that CMEV hopes to adopt the same methodology and practices employed in earlier monitoring of elections.

After completing preparatory work related to monitoring, CMEV has trained and posted 42 electoral division monitors in the field. The operations centre is located in Colombo CMEV will deploy 675 polling centre monitors and about 40 mobile monitoring teams to cover at least 70% of polling stations in the two Provinces.

CMEV has confirmed 21 election violence related incidents up to 22nd January 2009. This is relatively low in comparison to previous Provincial Council elections. Political parties, groups and other responsible authorities need to ensure that violent trends do not increase in the lead up to and on Election Day. CMEV also notes that those in power must disallow the use of public property for campaigning and electioneering.

Insisting upon proper voter identification at the polling stations by the Elections Commissioner will minimise opportunities for malpractices. But the illiterate voters especially among the estate workers may not have a clear understanding of the notice of the Election Commissioner. Field reports from our monitors indicate that the exhibition of the notice of Election commissioner at public places where the estate workers are living is not just sufficient. We call upon the Grama Niladharies (GN) and Estate Superintendents to take immediate steps to protect the voting rights of them.

There are thousands of people without National Identity cards in there two provinces. However the exact number of people who applied for temporary identity cards could only be ascertained after the closing date of applications.

CMEV reiterate that it is the responsibility of the political parties and the civil society organizations in the area to make them aware on the matter and to direct them to relevant agencies to obtain temporary identity cards. This needs to be addressed as a matter of priority.





