Conspiracy to assassinate President, family members revealed – Hulugalle

by Harischandra Gunaratna

A conspiracy to assassinate the President, his family members and key government officials, has been revealed, Director General Media Centre for National Security Lakshman Hulugalle said yesterday. Suspects include a prominent female member of the UNP.

Responding to a query from The Island on whether she is a Parliamentarian, he declined to comment claiming that the disclosure would hamper ongoing investigations.

"Army deserters and the retired military personnel, arrested from a five star hotel in Colombo, had planned to assassinate the President and top government officers," he said.

Following Wednesday's arrest of those men from the five star hotel, another three persons were arrested yesterday from another five star hotel in connection with the vicious SMS campaign where falsehoods were spread about the government.

"The modus operandi of the military men arrested on Wednesday was to move into the Lake House roundabout from the nearby five star hotel when the President's motorcade was coming from the President's house to assassinate the President and family members by firing at the motorcade," he pointed out.

These men were arrested by police as they were moved out of the hotel and are now being interrogated, he said.

The CID sleuths are trying to ascertain who was responsible and involved in this conspiracy, but Hulugalle refused to divulge whether high ranking retired military officers were among them.

"More arrests will be made in the next few days based on the information provided by those now being interrogated," he said.

The Common Opposition had two groups, one handled the election campaign and the other looked after the political aspect of it, he explained.

They had sent warning letters to government top rungers warning about their deaths and a list of around 20 such people, the Director General said.

There was also an e- mail campaign about these moves by Lankaenews, he said.

The opinion polls had clearly indicated that President Rajapaksa would be the winner, Hulugalle said.

Former IGP Chandra Fernando, said the conspiracy had been hatched by Opposition Candidate Gen (Rtd) Sarath Fonseka's men to assassinate the leaders and grab power since they knew that they were losing the Presidential election.





