The government spends more than Rs. 50 billion on educational development, said Mufthy Hashim, South Asia regional manager for City and Guilds.

Sri Lanka has been providing free education to the younger generation for a long period, he pointed out.

The education industry has now become a key market as parents pay more than Rs 100,000 for their child's A/L extra classes, Hashim said.

Currently, he said, parents spent Rs. 50 billion per year to provide the best educational opportunities to their children.

English knowledge has become a top priority in the commercial world, Hashim pointed out.

The English language is the communicator of the commercial world.

Currently over 350 million people speak the language currently, Hashim said.

The Sri Lankan government also has to step forward now to develop English language education as it is widely accepted to be a highly required skill in the corporate world.

Skills International CEO Danesh Abeyawickrama said the knowledge of the language can make a difference in a person's salary scale.

The current corporate world sees a big demand for this skill and it is essential that students gain a good command of English.

The employer would see the qualification of English before employing a new recruit and structuring a salary scale, said the CEO.

Many companies have come forward offering various diplomas and degrees in English to support the high demand for people with English knowledge.

Hashim also said that any parent today is willing to pay high amounts to obtain the best education facilities to children.

People living below the poverty line form the only segment that is currently in a drastic situation unable to get proper education, he said.

Today, he said, parents are even ready to curtail other expenses to spend more on their child's education, he pointed out.

"Nothing is free today. Everything has its price in the global market," he said.

"We will be charging 25 Pounds to deliver this education," he said.

Abeyawickrame said City and Guilds International, along with Skills International, had taken steps to deliver English language qualifications at 20 institutes currently tied up with the project "English as a life skill".

It will also be launching a television programme later this year, he said.

"Our goal is to issue certificates to 10,000 successful students oby the end of this year," Hashim said.

Currently the institution awards more than two million certificates in over 100 countries with a global network of 8,500 centres.





