Bharti Airtel Lanka (Pvt.) Ltd, a subsidiary of Bharti Airtel, one of the leading integrated telecommunications service providers in Asia, announced the launch on 12th January 2009 at the Hilton Colombo, of its mobile services in Sri Lanka under the Airtel brand. The services have been launched on a state-of-the-art 3.5G network.

Airtel has launched a package of innovative services and redefined affordability by offering attractive call rates. What truly sets these tariff plans apart is the simplicity and ease of understanding for the customer, including features such as unconditional free incoming calls.

Airtel's simple tariffs liberate the customer from the concept of peak and off-peak call rates by offering standard tariffs throughout the day and allowing them to speak freely. For the first time, Sri Lankan mobile customers will not have to bother about within network and outside network calls concept as Airtel will offer uniform call charges to any network. The company will also offer unique and customer relevant Value Added Services. 3.5G services will be available to all Airtel customers in Colombo, Kandy and Galle during the first phase of launch.

On the occasion Sunil Bharti Mittal, Chairman and Managing Director, Bharti Airtel said, "We are extremely honoured to present Airtel to Sri Lanka. At Bharti, we have always believed in undertaking business projects that are transformational and have a positive impact on the society at large.

Bharti Airtel has also set global benchmarks in telecom services, be it our unique business model based on outsourcing or innovative products and services."

"We are delighted to be given this opportunity to serve the people of Sri Lanka and contribute to the growth story of the country. It will be Airtel's sincere endeavour to drive affordability in the Sri Lankan market and empower more and more people to experience the benefits of mobile internet and telephony. We are confident that with our experience of serving around 88 million customers, we will make a positive impact on the telecom landscape of Sri Lanka", he said

"Bharti Airtel plans to invest around US $200 million in its Sri Lanka operations and this is the largest investment ever from India to Sri Lanka. We have been able to cover 60 percent of the country, while providing employment to over 20,000 people in Sri Lanka. Airtel has covered five provinces except the North Central and the Uva province, but we will be covering those two as well in the end of the first quarter of 2009", he added.

Commenting further Mittal said, "Telecommunication is not just another business, it also accelerates economic growth as well. In fact telecommunication plays a huge role in the GDP of the Indian economy. Bharti Airtel has a customer growth of over three million month after month in India. I am so delighted and humbled over the registration responses in Sri Lanka which was unbelievably high. There is a significantly improved sale for Airtel in Sri Lanka".

"In just over a year, the company has commissioned a sizeable state-of-the-art network. This is the fastest network roll-out of its scale by any mobile operator in Sri Lanka. This will enable Bharti Airtel to fulfill its promise of providing world class mobile services at affordable rates to customers in Sri Lanka", he noted.

In line with the innovative business model based on outsourcing that it pioneered, Bharti Airtel has created an ecosystem of partners for its Sri Lanka operations. It has entered into a three-year managed network deal with Huawei, partnered with IBM to manage its comprehensive IT infrastrncture and application requirements, and selected iSmart Timex as its customer care partner.

Ms. Amali Nanayakkara, CEO, Bharti Airtel Lanka added "We are excited at the prospect of providing customers with greater affordability and superior services as the newest mobile operator in Sri Lanka. Our product offering to customers will also usher in an era of simplified tariffs and customer experience. Bharti Airtel is grateful to all its strategic partners and regulatory bodies including the Telecommunications Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka for enabling a speedy and efficient launch."

The era of complicated tariff is over as Airtel introduces very simple tariffs from today. All incoming calls are totally free and out going calls will be charged just Rs.2.50 and Rs.1 per SMS. There is an introductory offer as outgoing is Rs.2 for all the Airtel customers till 31st March 2009.

The mobile services from Airtel are available with the number prefix 075. Airtel has also launched a glittering campaign across media to mark its launch. The company inaugurated one large Airtel Store on Galle Road in Colombo today to supplement its network of 12,000 retail outlets and 23 Airtel Stores across Sri Lanka. Customers can also reach Airtel on 075 5555555 or visit www.airtel.Ik.





