England's three-day break at their posh 'Arm and a Leg' hotel will have rested weary bones ahead of the final Test at the Wanderers, but according to Matt Prior it pales when compared to the energising effect of drawing in Cape Town.

"I think that's as proud as I've been in a cricket changing room, and I include winning the Ashes at the Oval," Prior said yesterday after a gruelling practice session in Johannesburg. "We were behind the eight ball for almost three days and we fought, fought and fought. The way Graham Onions went out and saw that last over through ... that shows a huge amount of resilience and defiance."

It was England's second last-gasp escape of the series, leading many here in South Africa to conclude that having been a decent ball away from losing two Tests, they are perhaps fortunate to be leading 1-0 with one to play.

"We deserve to be ahead as we haven't been beaten," said Prior. "If you don't get beaten you shouldn't be down. We took our opportunity to win a Test.

"Obviously we don't want to be a team that's always fighting to draw games. But if you can be a team that draws the games you ought to lose and win the ones you look like winning, it makes a huge difference in a series because we go into the last game 1-0 up rather than level or 2-1 down. That's the step forward I think this team has made."

Another draw at the Wanderers will give England the series, although the pitch there usually provides enough for bowlers of both sides to take 20 wickets. The last draw there was 10 Tests ago, in 2000, and with the groundsman under pressure to ensure that somebody loses, it is the result least likely this time.

England will want to win, not just to prove to the doubters that they deserve to, but to show that their grand plan to be the best Test side in the world is not just marketing spin. Winning in South Africa would be a major leap towards that goal.

"In purely cricketing terms beating South Africa would be right up there with winning the Ashes," said Prior, who, like Andrew Strauss, his captain, was born in Johannesburg. "When we came here, South Africa were the No 1 team in both forms of the game. We won the one-dayers and if we were to win the Tests as well it would be a fantastic winter for this England team."

It is interesting that Prior does not refer to the team as "us". Many sportsmen talk of themselves in the third person but his impersonality may arise from him being unsure at having secured the wicketkeeper's position in the side. The stats suggest otherwise, for he has played the last 11 Tests and would have notched up 17 in a row were it not for him missing the Barbados Test last March to attend the birth of his first child.

He has deserved the run and not just because his Test batting average is 42 (almost compulsory for wicketkeepers these days).

You can always tell when a keeper is doing his job well; his glove-work is unobtrusive. When he began, Prior looked like a not-so-lithe goalkeeper with gloves. Now, after 18 months of hard work with Bruce French, a former stumper who played for England and Nottinghamshire, he at last moves and takes the ball properly.

"I used to always have a bat in my hand and when I first met Bruce I told him that will never change," said Prior. "But now I get ready for practice and I'll have keeping gloves on straightaway. Fitting the batting has become more difficult as he works me hard but it's important to have that balance of being able to score runs too."

Part of his improvement has been down to losing muscle bulk especially in his upper body, the opposite to Ian Bell, who has beefed up. The change has made him far lighter on his feet, a shift that will not only help when he dives but when he tries to climb Ben Nevis the hard way with French, an experienced climber, at the end of March. Hopefully, notching his second peak after the Test series here.





