AirAsia, the world's best low cost airline, marked its maiden flight to Kota Kinabalu from Taipei with a celebration at the Kota Kinabalu International Airport; establishing Kota kinabalu as its second largest hub in Malaysia with a total of seven international and nine domestic destinations.

When the route was announced open for sale in November 2009, it received excellent response from the public where bookings reached encouraging numbers with over 32,000 seats sold to date.

Malaysia Transport Minister YB Dato' Sri Ong Tee Keat was present to welcome more than 120 guests on the inaugural flight from Taipei at the Kota Kinabalu International Airport, together with YB Datuk Masidi Manjun, Minister of Tourism, Culture and Environment of Sabah, YBhg. Dato' Aziz Bakar, Chairman of AirAsia Berhad, and YBhg. Dato' Fam Lee Ee Director of AirAsia. Also present were YBhg Dato' Seri Tengku Zainal Adlin, Chairman of Sabah Tourism Board, and YBhg Datuk Irene Benggon Charuruks, General Manager of Sabah Tourism Board, distinguished guests from government bodies, travel agents and members of the media.

Malaysia Transport Minister YB Dato' Sri Ong Tee Keat said: "This is a fantastic milestone for Malaysia's aviation industry and for AirAsia; establishing Kota Kinabalu as its second largest hub in Malaysia. The Ministry is working closely with AirAsia to enhance international air services, which will result in more inbound tourists to Malaysia, boost our economy and increase tourism revenue. There are countless attractions in East Malaysia and I am pleased to be here today to celebrate AirAsia's inaugural flight from Taipei. The introduction of this new route will provide greater accessibility and connectivity across South East Asia and beyond."

Kota Kinabalu (Sabah) has the most developed tourism infrastructure for gentle beach life or more active watersports, which makes this beautiful coast one of the most coveted tourist destinations of the world. Not to mention the Mount Kinabalu, the third tallest mountain of South East Asia is also one of the stunning tourist attractions in Sabah. Other primary eco-tourism attractions include its outstanding national parks such as Kinabalu National Park and the Sepilok Orang Utan Sanctuary. Likewise, residents of East Malaysia can now enjoy AirAsia's low fares and have the luxury of direct flights to Taiwan, renowned for its cuisine, culture, arts, architecture and bustling business activities. Taipei is a melting pot of the great culinary traditions, both Chinese and foreign, with hundreds of restaurants creating a gourmet's paradise.





