The recently issued 1,000-rupee currency note was a major issue among the opposition members saying that the note itself was material for the election campaign of the forthcoming Presidential election.

However, it is common knowledge among the coins and currency collectors that any special event would result in issuing a note or coin. Achieving peace by eradicating terrorism would allow the government to print one commemorative note according to senior numismatics and currency note collectors.

In fact, President Mahinda Rajapaksa was delighted by the remarks expressed by the opposition on the note. The President said that the opposition was hard up and that they were trying to make an issue out of a commemorative note.

On November 17, the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) issued the note to mark the ushering in of peace and prosperity to Sri Lanka.

According to the Bank, this note was well received by the public. However, certain statements have been made by a few individuals who have obviously not properly understood the circumstances behind the issue of this commemorative note.

The Bank said it issues commemorative notes and coins from time to time to mark events or personage of national or international importance, in terms of the Monetary Law Act and the decision to issue such a commemorative note was taken immediately after the completion of the humanitarian operations on May 19, 2009, and as is usual, a period of around six months elapses from the time of intention to issue to time of actual issue.

The reverse of the note contains the image of President Mahinda Rajapaksa and also the map of Sri Lanka with the rising sun in the background and a "Punkalasa" with ears of paddy symbolizing territorial integrity and prosperity respectively, which are results of national harmony and peace.

The valiant contribution made by the nation's victorious sons and daughters of all security forces and the police is the theme on the reverse of the note. The design at the centre depicts the hoisting of the national flag by members of the security forces. The note was designed by a Sri Lankan artist.

The Bank said that the image of the Head of the State in currency notes and coins has been the case in many countries. In Sri Lanka, several currency notes have been issued depicting the images of the British rulers even after Sri Lanka became an independent country. In 1951, His Majesty King George VI of England, was depicted on currency notes Rs. 1 and Rs. 10. In 1952, Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II of England was depicted on currency notes Rs. 1, Rs. 2, Rs. 5, Rs. 10, Rs. 50 and Rs. 100. Further, the portrait of Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II was depicted on a coin issued in 1955.

It is common knowledge that during the period from 1962 to 1970 several series of currency notes were issued depicting the image of former Prime Minister. S W R D Bandaranaike.

In 1978, a coin containing the portrait of then President J R Jayawardena was issued to commemorate his induction as President.

In 1992, a coin containing the portrait of then President, R Premadasa was issued to commemorate the third anniversary of his induction as President.

Therefore, it is clear that the Central Bank had followed usual procedures as well as been consistent with traditional practices, in the issuing of this new currency note.





