The province, as the unit of devolution has been agreed upon by all members of the All Party Representative Committee (APRC) and it would be offered to the Tamil National Alliance, as a solution to the ethnic issue, APRC Chairman Tissa Vitharana told a news conference, at the Presidential Secretariat last week, on how Tamil concerns about the unit of devolution would be addressed.

"All APRC members are agreed that the unit of devolution would be the province. For a southern consensus to be reached, it is imperative that the UNP and JVP rejoin the APRC process. I am in discussion with both parties and have urged them to come back and assist in concluding a broad agreement. Thereafter, we can present a set of proposals to the Tamil National Alliance."

Vitharana said that Eastern Tamils led by the TMVP have already indicated that they do not want to merge with the North.

Foreign Minister Rohitha Bogollagama said that the significance of Elephant Pass being captured, was that Jaffna has been connected to the South via the A9 for the first time since 2006.

"Securing Elephant Pass was more than symbolic, since it is the main gateway to Jaffna. While peace talks were on, in 2006, the LTTE blocked Elephant Pass resulting in 600,000 Northerners not having an easy passage to the South. But the government has successfully overcome that situation, while ensuring that there were no civilian casualties. This also makes the final march on Mullaithivu much easier."

Bogollagama thanked the international community for all the assistance provided to defeat the LTTE and its terror tactics and added that the victorious march of the security forces also enabled UN agencies to deal with humanitarian issues, which they were very concerned about.

The Sri Lankan governments, zero tolerance policy against terrorism and the victory it has achieved is an example to the entire world, he observed.

There was pessimism and sarcasm, when military operations were launched to destroy the LTTE, but now all those voices have been silenced, Bogollagama said "We are not looking at just battle field victories, but also sustainable peace and a political solution to the national question."





