The Island-BusinessThe Government gave a new year gift to the technology-hungry youth and public of Jaffna at the dawn of 2009. That was at the conclusion of the mega industrial and educational exhibition and trade fair held from 27th to 29th of December at the Jaffna Vembadi Girls' High School and Jaffna Central College. On the sidelines of the exhibition which registered a count of over 400,000 on Monday (29) the fifth and the latest Nenasala in the Jaffna district installed at the Vembady Girls' High School as a technology stall of the exhibition drew its own expected crowds from day one with over 20,000 entrants on the last day.

The gift of the Nenasala converted from a model techno centre at Vembady to a permanent knowledge centre at the Jaffna Secretariat replacing its former reception office was a sequel to the request from no other than the originator of the concept of the mega exhibition. On the request of Jaffna Security Forces Commander Major Gen. G.A. Chandrasiri, whose brainchild the "Future Minds of Jaffna" exhibition was, the model Nenasala set up at Vembady was re-set at the Jaffna District Secretariat as the fifth permanent Nenasala in the Jaffna district.

About half of the population that visited the Nenasala consisted of students and youth who to grabbed the opportunity to use the facilities at the Nenasala which they said were not available to them elsewhere.

The objective of the exhibition was to open the 'doors of opportunity to the youth of the North deprived for long under the cloud of the conflict, and to develop partnerships among all regions of Sri Lanka not only from an economic development perspective but also from a culture and unity aspect. It was expected from the exhibition that it would enable the people of Jaffna enjoy the same facilities that their brethren from other parts of the country enjoy'.

True to the objective of the exhibition, the ICTA initiated Nenasala which was a component of the exhibition opened the 'doors of opportunity to the youth of the North deprived for long under the cloud of the conflict'.

Referring to the gift of the fifth Nenasala Social Services and Social Welfare Minister Douglas Devananda who inaugurated the Nenasala as well as the exhibition said: "It is source of pleasure that on the request of Major Gen. G.A. Chandrasiri the model Nenasala set up at the exhibition is being bequeathed for use by the people of Jaffna". Expressing his views on the occasion of the launching of the Nenasala Major Gen. G.A. Chandrasiri stated "It is a pleasure to see that an outlet centre of Nenasala is exhibited at the exhibition centre". Peace Secretariat Secretary Professor Rajiva Wijesinha pointing out the relevance of the exhibition and the Nenasala said: "Education and technology are among the keys to peace". Speaking on the occasion Jaffna Town Commandant J. R. Kulatunga stated: "I as the chief organizer of the Industrial and Educational Exhibition, Jaffna – 2008 am extremely happy to see the success of the event with the participation of 'Nenasala' which is going to be an important stall for the students of Jaffna".



