Amid intervention by the Supreme Court of India to stop the dredging of Ram Sethu, explosive opposition from millions of Hindus, money running dry for the project, Government secrecy and the evasiveness on the dredging done and cost incurred, project web site not being updated for three months, shipping ministry imposing a gag order on all Government owned shipping organizations, allegations of massive corruption, the Sethu canal project appears to be sinking. Even the Sri Lanka-India bilateral talks to discuss our concerns have been suspended by India indefinitely since April 2006. Above all the bombshell from followers of Ram Sethu threatens the very survival of UPA coalition Government.

On July 2, 2005, Indian PM inaugurating the Sethu Project declared that "it is the fulfillment of a sacred assurance we gave the people of our country, specially the people of Tamil Nadu through the Common Minimum Program".

SSCP website on May 30, 2005, stated that Sri Lanka is upset since Colombo port will lose a large chunk of transshipment cargo which will be diverted to Indian ports. The web added "apart from the commercial aspects, channel will improve tremendously the power projection capabilities of Indian armed forces not just in the Indian Ocean and the bay of Bengal, but deep in to the Indian Ocean as far as the Antarctic ice fields."

Sacred assurances to the voters to win election and grand designs to assume regional super power status appear to be getting dashed on the bridge Lord Rama is believed to have built to rescue Seetha from Sri Lanka's Ravana.

Politics, religion, law, economics, environmental concerns have joined forces, to make unscrambling a scrambled egg child's play, compared to clearing the grid lock of Sethu Project.

Politics

SSCP project has unpredictably placed the New Delhi UPA coalition government in a catch-22 position. As several Indian critics have observed, the canal project was planned and launched for political purposes. Jayalalitha in the latest petition to the Supreme Court of India has made the same accusation. DMK support was crucial for the congress to win the election as well as to form the UPA government and to remain in power. Inclusion of the project in the Common Minimum Program was the price paid by Congress to secure DMK's support. The sacred assurance has to be fulfilled to keep DMK within the coalition. The assurance was given as a desperate measure, ignoring above all that the project would involve demolishing Ram Sethu sacred to over a billion Hindus. A note issued by the Prime Minister's office soon after the Tsunami expressing the fear that 'going ahead with the project without adequate studies could lead to a human disaster' highlight the consequences of hasty decisions for political purposes.

Opposition from scientists, environmentalists, fisher folk were brushed aside by the proponents. Fictitious claims advanced that the canal would be boon for shipping and India's export trade, sounds more like bumper stickers than a rational justification for dollars 600 million project. Sri Lanka's expressions of concern at the highest levels were totally ignored. Fortunately for Sri Lanka, but to the consternation of the New Delhi Government, Lord Ram intervened when every other opposition failed.

The Supreme Court of India responding to a petition filed by a leader of BJP ordered the Central Government on Friday August 10, 2007 to stop any dredging in the Ram Sethu area and to ensuring the safety of Ram Sethu.

Affidavits filed by the Government claiming that Ram Sethu is not a man-made bridge exploded in the face of the government. The government was therefore compelled to quickly withdraw the affidavit from the Supreme Court, and seek time till January 16, 2008 to file a fresh affidavit.

The New Delhi government is now between the devil and the deep blue sea. If the project is abandoned, the DMK is most likely to pull out which could lead to a collapse of the UPA government. If the project is not abandoned it could be fatal for the Congress. Hindus led by BJP and other religious parties could ensure sayonara for the Congress. Despite Sonia Ghandhi accusing BJP playing politics with Ram Sethu at election rallies, the Congress lost recently two state elections, including Gujarat.

SSCP issue is critically important for both Congress and DMK. Will the two parties unlock the gridlock? If the past is a prelude – don't bet on it. After all, DMK was once an ally of the BJP.

Legal noose

The Supreme Court of India on 10/08/2007 issued notice on the Central Government on a public interest litigation challenging the Sethu Project and for a direction to preserve Ram Sethu as an ancient monument. Petitioners also informed the Court how the environmental law has also been violated in executing the project.

Indian Government response to the notice issued by Supreme Court proved to be a disaster. As mentioned earlier, it had to be withdrawn soon after it was submitted. That affidavit declared that Ram Sethu is not a man made bridge, according to the archaeological surveys of India. Predictably, Hindu opposition fury exploded in the face of the Government. Adding fuel to fire, Karunanidi challenged Lord Ram to prove his existence and questioned his engineering qualifications to build a bridge.

The Supreme Court then ordered the Government to file a fresh affidavit before 16th January 2008. To prepare a fresh affidavit the government hastily constituted a 10-member committee of eminent persons headed by S. Ramachandran, Vice Chancellor of Madras University to examine the project and report within thirty days. Ramachandran has been an outspoken supporter of the project. He even headed the monitoring committee of the EIA for the project. It is a case of consulting the crystal ball of the robber's mother for a clue of the thief, as our villagers would remind us.

Hundred and thirty persons who appeared before the committee expressed heir views on economic viability, environment, security, historical, religious, social and other factors.

The hastily prepared committee report to meet the Supreme Court deadline concluded that Ram Sethu is of natural origin and denied of any existence of archaeological remains of any man-made structure. However, the committee recommended the inclusion of archaeologists during dredging work to report and recover artifacts. This cannot be Socrates' logic.

The Professor of Archaeology of Madras University, Bombay Natural History Society and professor of Anthropology of Madras University expressed their opposition to the project on scientific grounds, but was ignored by the authorities who were hell bent on dredging the canal.

A committee of secretaries drafted a fresh affidavit based on expert committee report to be submitted to the Supreme Court. However, due to serious divisions and disagreements it was decided to await the arrival of Prime Minister from China and to obtain his approval before submitting the new affidavit to the Supreme Court. The Government wanted to obtained two weeks extension from the Supreme Court to submit the new affidavit before January 30, 2008.

Shipping Minister Baalu celebrated the report of the Export Committee re-igniting the explosive Ram Sethu issue. His claim that Ram Sethu is not a man- made bridge may be non-controversial from a historical perspective, but highly inadvisable from a political perspective. His impatience to carry on with the $ 600 million project cannot be to help shipping, according to his political enemies.

The fresh affidavit to be presented to the Supreme Court as well as the court's decision could determine not only the future of the project, but also the future of the New Delhi government.

Apart from the accusation of violating India's laws, it is well to remember the words of Sri Lanka's brilliant lawyer, Foreign Minister Kadirgamar, in his memorable speech to parliament on 07/07/2005. He pointed out that "No prior approval was sought or was granted by Sri Lanka for the project. Such approval is mandatory in terms of UNCLOS and RIO declaration on environment and adopted by the UN General Assembly on 12/08/1992. Referring to these conventions, Minister Kadirgamar added in his speech to Parliament, "There are also provisions in these conventions providing for recourse to related legal fora, to discuss and make determinations on such matters. Some countries have taken similar matters to these fora. This is obviously a measure of last resort in the event failure to resolve issues through bilateral consultations and friendly cooperation." He concluded: "Should the canal be determined to pose adverse effect to Sri Lanka, the government will explore appropriate and all necessary steps to safeguard our interests."

If the outcome of three rounds of bilateral talks at technical level and the unilateral suspension by India of the talks are a measure of cooperation by India, Kadirgamar's statement may prove to be prophetic, showing the future path for Sri Lanka. Apart from facing the Indian Supreme Court, the spectre of facing a UN tribunal by India cannot be ruled out.

Reference is being made by a few to a proposal made by Sri Lanka when the President of Sri Lanka and Indian Prime Minister held bilateral talks in New Delhi. That proposal was to cooperate in the Palk Bay area. The instant welcoming of the proposal by India with a request to Sri Lanka to submit a paper on the proposal would not have surprised our delegation. The reason for making the proposa, according to an official who did not wish to be named, was a diplomatic ploy by Sri Lanka to cool an atmosphere heated with the negative attitude of the Indian delegation. To date no such paper has been submitted by Sri Lanka or agreed to include the subject in the stalled CEPA discussions as proposed by India.

Just as some western countries advocate a political solution to Sri Lanka's terrorist problem without spelling out the solution, proponents of cooperation in the Palk Bay area are discreetly silent on the content. Are they suggesting that we accept the Sethu Canal project as a fait accompli and then cooperate with India to face the nature's fury supported by over a billion Hindus?

Economic viability

The much-hyped benefits to the shipping and foreign trade are disappearing like the sand dumped in the sea after dredging. To justify the $ 600 million project and win the support of the shipping community, promoters promised a canal with two way traffic, 12 meter draft, saving of 36 hours sailing time and 420 nautical miles for ships using the canal. They also claimed that an estimated three thousand ships would use the canal in the first year itself. From such Himalayan hype, the draft has been reduced to 8 meters, two-way traffic reduced to one-way traffic, while the cost has escalated from Rs. 2,400 croes to Rs. 4,000 croes. The eight meter draft and one-way traffic alone will make the canal unattractive to shipping. The viability of the project is in jeopardy due to escalating cost and doubtful use by ships which will prefer to circumnavigate Sri Lanka. The glaring indifference of shipping lines to the project may prove to be a signal that the canal may never be used by commercial vessels.

The secrecy, the government's evasiveness on the volume of the work done and gagging the government officials have led to accusations of massive corruptions. According to official estimates, Rs. 610 crors have been spent on dredging with no image or any other data to show what has been dredged. What is being dredged is getting filled up quickly due to currents and unprotected side of the canal which is being dredged in the sea. Hence, the BJP is asking the question where has the money gone? Dredging is known to be the most corrupt in shipping. Verification is so difficult and cheating so easy.

Religion

India's critics claim, the failure of the Indian Government to listen to more than 40 eminent scientists, environmentalist and economists is responsible for the rise of Ram Sethu phenomenon,. What is strange though is, Minister Baalu who refused to accept the scientific findings becoming the champion of science, challenging the existence of Lord Rama and the belief Ram Sethu was man-made.

As Annie Besant (1847-1933) observed: "make no mistake, Without Hinduism India has no future. Hinduism is a soil into which India's roots are stuck, and torn out of this, she will inevitably wither." Two retired Supreme Court judges of India have reminded the Government of the importance of respecting Hindu sentiments and are opposing the project very strongly. While the politicians play politics with Ram Sethu, it is unlikely that the supreme court will ignore the risk of hurting the religious sentiments of millions of Hindus for the sake of canal that may never be used.

Indian environmentalist call the SSCP project "ecocide" owing to the possible ecological disaster. In the current scenario, one may ask whether it is Sayonara either for the project or for the Government.





