When the LTTE was a factor to be contended with, political solutions explored had to be limited due to its presence and what it stood for. Now that the LTTE has ceased to be a factor to be reckoned with political solutions could be explored free of their constraining influence. This is so with the 13th Amendment (13thA) as well. Consequently, the tendency has been for the 13thA to be the fulcrum round which political solutions are explored. Just as it was with the presence of the LTTE, as long as the 13thA remains, no political solution could be explored outside its confines. Allowing the 13thA to continue would therefore be analogous to exploring political solutions with the LTTE present.

It is only a political solution acceptable to most in all communities that would be durable. The 13thA does not meet this requirement for several reasons. Firstly, the 13thA was imposed on Sri Lanka through Indian intervention. While it appeased the main concerns of the Tamil community it does not meet their expectations. Furthermore, the 13thA is unacceptable to most in the Sinhala community. Consequently, the 13thA does not meet the basic requirement of being acceptable to most in the two most influential of Sri Lanka's communities; an essential requirement for a political solution to be durable.

Secondly, the 13thA is illegal on two counts. The first count being that the then Supreme Court of nine judges as a body did not give a collective "determination" as to whether the 13thA Bill "required approval by the People at a referendum" as called for by Article 120 (a) of the Constitution. Instead, the then Chief Justice forwarded to Parliament a letter addressed to the Speaker which stated that four judges determined that a referendum WAS required, four others determined that a referendum WAS NOT required, and the ninth judge determined that two sub-clauses 154G(2)(b) and 3(b) required a referendum (emphasis added; HANSARD, November 10, 1987, P.1310). Although the Supreme Court had grounds to formulate a majority opinion of 5 to 4 that a referendum WAS required in respect of the two sub-clauses, the Court failed to do so thereby NOT fulfilling its role as the authority with the "sole and exclusive jurisdiction" over a matter called for in the Constitution.

The second count for the illegality of the 13thA is due to the incorrect procedure adopted by the then Parliament following the inconclusive determination by the full bench of the Supreme Court as to whether the Bill necessitated a referendum or not. This absence of direction was compounded by Parliament which failed to appreciate that it was the provisions in the 13thA Bill that necessitated the procedural requirement of a referendum. This caused Parliament to resort to the incorrect procedure of deleting the procedural requirement of a referendum without first revising the provisions of the Bill, despite strident objections by members of the opposition of the then Parliament, notably Hon. Dinesh Gunawardene, late Anura Bandaranaike and late Anil Moonesinghe. This flaw has remained with us for the last 22 years without correction.

The cumulative effect of the unacceptability of the 13thA to both major communities and its fundamental illegality justify the abrogation of the 13thA to the Constitution. While such an action may have serious consequences associated with the dismantling of an arrangement that has existed for so long, the very foundation of the political structure of the Sri Lankan state cannot be permitted to remain mired in falsehood. This makes exploring political solutions with the 13thA as the foundation, and moving up or down it, a seriously flawed approach. What is needed is to abrogate the 13thA and create the free space for a political arrangement to evolve through a collective effort that most can live with. It would be unrealistic to expect the political establishment to initiate such a step in view of the political capital at stake, both within and outside Sri Lanka. Under the circumstances, one alternative would be through appropriate legal action by civil society.

WHAT NEXT?

If this free space could be created the next step should be to collectively collaborate and evolve an acceptable political solution. However, prior to taking this step there is a need to come to terms with a vital fundamental political attitude. This is whether as a society we commit to the concept of a Sri Lankan community made up of all communities, or to a community of separate but equal communities. Indications are that most Sinhalese would prefer a concept of a Sri Lankan community. As for the Tamil community they have resorted to extreme measures to foster the concept of separateness, meaning separate but equal communities. However, the failure to prevail in their pursuit of separateness should give them sufficient cause to rethink past attitudes.

Indications are that the Tamils of the Eastern Province have come to realize that their self interests would be better served by committing to the concept of a Sri Lankan community rather than being a sub-group of a northern Tamil community. For the Tamils in the South on the other hand, the required mix of circumstances does not exist for them to exercise political separateness. This leaves the Tamils of the Northern Province. Based on the enumeration conducted by the Department of Census & Statistics 2007, the population in Jaffna District is about 560,000. Adding all of the 300,000 post conflict displaced in the Vanni to this number means that the population in Northern Province could not be more than 860,000. Even if one were to be generous and consider a figure of 900,000, the population in the Northern Province represents only 4.5% of Sri Lanka's population of 20 million.

These existential realities need to be accepted by the current Tamil leadership as indubitable facts. It is within such a framework that they need to be introspective and ask themselves whether their self interests would be better served by continuing to be politically separate through non-participation, or through active participation thereby becoming an integral component of a Sri Lankan political Community. In this context it must be recognized that devolution fosters the concept of a society of separate but equal communities. Therefore, given the fact that over 90% are committed to the concept of a Sri Lankan community of all communities the Tamil leadership should realize that inflexibility in this regard would only delay and deny opportunities for their people to pursue their interests.

NEED FOR CHANGE

Even if some in the current Tamil leadership realize the need for change it would be unrealistic to expect them to come forward and acknowledge it publicly at this time. On the other hand, it would be easier for a new Tamil leadership go public with such an acknowledgement. Whether with the current or a new Tamil leadership, sensitive strategies need to be explored to facilitate the transformation bearing in mind that the initiative needed to facilitate the process would have to be by a predominantly Sinhala Government (a fact of life under any circumstances). The transformative process could start by creating opportunities for the participation of all communities in the Legislative and Executive branches of government at the center, because of the procedural simplicities involved to effect such changes.

Participation in the Legislature could be encouraged by strengthening the existing Consultative Committees to oversee and monitor Executive action by removing Executive participation in such committees regardless of whether the structure of the Executive is Presidential, or that of an Executive Prime Minister. For the effective participation of such committees each member should be assisted by a Parliamentary Aide nominated by the member but appointed by Parliament, provided they meet prescribed standards. Similarly, the Executive could be more representative of the communities much more than it is today where there are 2 Tamils and 5 Muslims in a cabinet of nearly 50. Another area for participation of all communities would be through the creation of a National Planning Council. By taking the initiative to create opportunities for all communities to participate in determining not only policies (Legislature) and priorities (National Planning) but also in their implementation (Executive), all communities could clearly realize that more could be gained by committing to a collective community rather than by staying aloof and separate. However, creating opportunities by themselves is not sufficient to foster commitment to a collective community. It also requires total and abiding commitment to the concept.

CONCLUSION

Although current attention is totally focused on the forthcoming Presidential election, in the background lurks the 'elephant in the room' – what political arrangement would sustain peace and foster growth and development for all communities? There is no specific proposal in this regard from either of the major contenders. Thus far, both have referred to the 13thA as a reference point. Piecemeal attempts would not be durable. Durability of political arrangements require that the decks are cleared of the constraining influences of the 13thA by abrogating it just as space was created by defeating the LTTE militarily and removing its demands from the political discourse.

Before a fresh political discourse could commence the question that needs to be addressed is whether Sri Lanka is to be politically a community of all communities or whether Sri Lanka is be politically a community of separate but equal communities, bearing in mind that devolution encourages the latter. Indications are that over 90% of the nation's polity is for the former. Therefore, there is a need for the rest to rethink the relevance of past attitudes. The process of change could be encouraged and facilitated by initiating modifications to the current arrangements at the center as an indication of commitment to a Sri Lankan community of all communities. But arrangements by themselves would not achieve the desired objective unless there is commitment to make the arrangements work. Whether arrangements should follow commitment or visa-versa, in the particularities of Sri Lanka, the initiative should be taken by the overwhelming majority to create arrangements at the center to foster commitment by all communities to the concept of a Sri Lankan community. It has to be acknowledged that it is only such a concept that would address the well-being of all communities and the nation as a whole.





