It was in January 1990 that the ­seventh and most reprehensible of the rebel cricket tours to South Africa left from England, under the captaincy of Mike Gatting. There had been six previous tours, between 1982 and 1987, from England, Australia, the West Indies and Sri Lanka.Players on the last two tours were given "honorary white" status.

Threats of murder and maiming tend to concentrate the mind, especially when they are directed at you. Every visit to South Africa evokes a shudder of remembrance, even though those late night phone calls took place two decades ago.

It was in January 1990 that the ­seventh and most reprehensible of the rebel cricket tours to South Africa left from England, under the captaincy of Mike Gatting. There had been six previous tours, between 1982 and 1987, from England, Australia, the West Indies and Sri Lanka.Players on the last two tours were given "honorary white" status.

But the 1990 tour was the most ­morally dubious of all, since it took place as South Africa was going through a period of momentous change, before the release of Nelson Mandela and the years of transformation. Furthermore, the 16 England players who went on the tour were being paid by the apartheid government rather than corporate sponsors, which had been the case on previous rebel tours.

This was also the first such tour to face angry demonstrators, who had simply not been allowed to show their frustration and resentment on previous occasions. The tour was organised by the normally sagacious Dr Ali Bacher, who had been South Africa's last captain before the country was banished from Test cricket at the start of the 1970s.

Bacher, now 67, told me: "That tour nearly finished me off, emotionally. We lived in a cocoon here, you must remember. Including myself. When we had the previous rebel tours there were packed crowds, mainly white people, no demonstrations. I thought the country, the people, had no problem. I must confess that if I had known the anger and the hurt that those tours would cause I would have thought twice about them. It was very hurtful for me. I had been a liberal all my life. And I thought Mike Gatting might get killed in Pietermaritzburg."

It was in Pietermaritzburg where Gatting was confronted by the ugliest crowd of all, chanting "Gatting go home!" ­Mandela was released on 11 February and it was agreed to shorten the tour if there were no more demonstrations. The players returned early and a trip scheduled for the following year was cancelled.

The players arrived home before me. I was deported by a government incensed by my views on the apartheid system and my report of the brutal ­quashing of a demonstration at Jan Smuts ­Airport. After receiving death threats from tour sympathisers, I was pleased to get out of the place.

The Labour MP and veteran anti-apartheid campaigner Peter Hain said: "This was on the cusp of a historic change in South Africa. So for Gatting and his tourists to go, clodhoppers and all, into this transformative moment was grotesque beyond belief. It was not surprising it caused such offence. The rebel tours were a doomed attempt to shore up the tottering apartheid system, when it needed to be isolated."

In an age when sportsmen still argued that sport and politics could be kept separate, England's myopic rebels blundered on. Even now, still crazy after all these years, some of them display a lack of contrition.

"My mind was all over the place, cricket-wise," Neil Foster, the former England and Essex seam bowler, said. "I didn't perform, and I've always put that down to a bit of a mental block about the whole thing. But I wouldn't say that I regret going. In a bizarre way, we did help change the country." Really?

The former England off-spinner John Emburey has his doubts. "In hindsight, it was a tour that maybe shouldn't have taken place," he said.

For Gatting, there was some sympathy. He had been badly treated by the game's establishment, sacked as England captain, and unfairly. An attempt to reinstate him had been vetoed in 1989. But it was the naive Gatting who said before the tour: "I don't know much about how apartheid works but one way to find out is by going there." He also described one ­demonstration as "just a bit of singing and dancing".

Yesterday he said, only a little sheepishly: "I don't want to talk about it, really, except to say that it all turned out well for South Africa."

The whole misadventure was best summed up by the Guardian's Frank ­Keating when the tourists returned home. He wrote: "No more inglorious, downright disgraced and discredited team or sportsmen wearing the badge of 'England' can ever have returned through customs with such nothingness to declare."





