Ananda College have recovered from setbacks in the third term to record three outright victories during the last four weeks as their skipper Pasindu Madushan started campaigning more vigorously to become the leading all-rounder of the ongoing Inter-School Under-19 Cricket season.

The all-rounder has accelerated his run scoring since late and his wicket tally went 13 wickets up over the last weekend as he produced his second eight-wicket haul (in an innings) of the season to restrict St. Anthony's College, Katugastota to 182 runs.

He has taken 25 wickets during the last two matches, which is nearly one third of his season's tally.

With Ananda College wicket being notoriously biased towards spinners has the off-spinner become a beneficiary of circumstances? "He has proved his ability in away matches as well. We played Maliyadeva, Lumbini and Royal away. He did well in those matches as well," defends coach Lucky Rogers.

In hindsight Madushan's contributions have come in handy in all their victories. Ananda beat Dharmapala, Lumbini and Maliyadeva in their away matches and Madushan contributed heavily in those matches (10 wickets against Dharmapala, 12 wickets against Lumbini and 12 wickets against Maliyadeva).

So far Madushan has picked up over 70 wickets and has aggregated over 600 runs with two centuries. With seven matches to go for the Big Match against Nalanda, the dream double of 100 wickets and 1000 runs is quite within the reach of the Sri Lanka Under-19 squad player.

However, school cricket arena has seen such cricketers pursuing personal milestones finally ending up playing negative cricket.

"I have set 100 wickets and 1000 runs as my personal goal. I think scoring 1000 runs and taking 100 wickets is a huge achievement for a school cricketer. I try hard to achieve that. But I make sure that the team comes first," says Madushan.

Ananda had quite an inauspicious start to the season conceding a couple of first innings defeats before suffering an outright defeat at the hands of St. Benedict's College in the season.

"It was bit of a disappointment that we did not do well during the third term. But defeat is not an embarrassment. We played positively throughout the season. You can't put the blame on one particular player or the batting department. Unluckily some of our batsmen did not click during the third term," opines Rogers, who cherishes producing cricketers to Junior National team more than maintaining an unbeaten record.

"We take pride in producing cricketers to the junior national team than maintaining an unbeaten record," said Rogers in reply to a query.

Ananda have so far played 13 matches. While they have registered victories against Dharmapala, Lumbini and Maliyadeva, their only disappointment was against St. Benedict's.

They had the first innings lead on four occasions and while it went the other way on five occasions.

The match against Richmond ended in a no result. In the batting department deputy skipper Thushara Samarakoon, wicket-keeper batsman and coloursman Ushan Gunathilaka and former skipper Geshan Wimaladharma have been the leading scorers. Apart from Madushan, Samarakoon is the only batsman to have scored a century this season and it came at a crucial juncture for Ananda to avert a defeat against S. Thomas' College at Mount Lavinia.

In the bowling department, left-arm leg spinner Isuru Gunasekara and left-arm paceman Vanuka Ashan are the leading wicket takers apart from the skipper.





A few letters in the recent past have begun to create hope that thirty years of indescribable torment have led to some "Lessons Learnt". The letters of the 68 Tamil speakers (Island, 6 Jan. 2012), Sebastian Rasalingam from Canada (Island, 7 Jan. 2012) and , the letter by several prominent Sinhala speakers (Island, 16. Jan 2012) did kindle some hope that certain antiquated views and entrenched fears are hopefully on the way out. Durand Appuhamy, who normally writes very reasonably and well, has disappointed by his piece (Island, 13 Jan. 2012). He perceives inadequacies, selectivity and a sinister plan. He certainly has a right to suspect so, but at the present juncture, this is unhelpful. A graciously extended hand is what is now needed - it costs little but will pay handsomely. We SriLankans have a tendency to be attracted to the more complicated and devious explanations in the mistaken notion that this is indicative of exceptionally shrewd perceptions. In some cases, they may well be so. But, in this instance it would be both prudent and pragmatic to suspend them for a moment and suppress any urge for smartness.

I am particularly impressed by the fact that there are no politicians among the signatories of either document of multiple signatures, for a very simple reason.

They are the ones who have contrived the so-called "ethnic problem" of which they are the sowers, husbanders, reapers and consumers! You cannot expect them to diminish such a lucrative and richly sustaining pretence! Why ever should they cut their "Kalpa Vrukshaya? It has sustained them well for 64 years since Independence (and a considerable number more before) There is no better example of a "political clay pigeon shoot" than the so-called ethnic problem. Punctuated by the dreadfully damaging "National Languages" Fiasco and a progressive entrenchment through creeping into religion and culture, our nation has succeeded in emphasising differences while diminishing our common humanity and shared problems. No further proof of deception is needed than the fact that the most "ardent" of Sinhala patriots adopted the sound investment of educating their children abroad! There is an evident scale of culpability! I suggest that the nascent, truly "Peoples' Movement" keep aseptically clear of politicos (they have engendered such antagonism and disappointment that few will lament this omission). I believe this is possible and eminently desirable. Resignees able to establish unimpeachable repentance could be considered! Repentance being an esteemed virtue!

The reactions and actions from the TNA are profoundly disappointing. They have to remind themselves that as demonstrable apologists and proxies for the now defeated LTTE, they have a huge task to establish their credibility afresh. Stubborn, hackneyed, negative and confrontational attitudes are no help. They will only kindle equally illogical and extremist reactions The article by Dr Visvalingam (Island, 28 January) eloquently develops the need for the "minorities" to develop inclusivity with the majority. This is for the very good reason that the disabilities, deprivations and disadvantages suffered by the two groups have much in common. The most effective ways of building bridges, are the initiatives to promote reciprocal visits between youth from the North and South and the promotion of sporting events.

After nearly thirty years of effective separation and demonisation by vile forces, contacts to erase misconceptions are invaluable. Those who have watched the BBC's "Mind Your Language" series would have appreciated how good humoured racial stereotyping can do much for inter-racial amity. In the local context, plays like "Well Mudaliyar" and "He comes from Jaffna" can help greatly in transforming communal foibles into endearing attributes!

The first step is to observe the convention that "Sinhala" and "Tamil" are only languages for communication and not "races". Thus there are "sinhala speakers" but no "Sinhala fears". There are "Tamil speakers" and no "Tamil aspirations". There are "Muslim adherents" but no "Muslim interests". If this is agreed, meticulously adhered to and shouted out of court, if ever it surfaces in a contextually inappropriate way, a good first step would have been taken. Racist (or linguistic "patriotism") is worse than the last refuge of scoundrels. Witness the dire distress and mayhem that this posturing has brought us. Can those who fear racial extinction honestly answer the question "So what?" The philosophies that taught us about "aeons", has certainly accommodated the passing into oblivion of many such formations similar to ours during the long history of the human race!.

Sinhala speakers being the majority, should magnanimously (and indicative of a bold confidence) take the initiative to erase establishment and other relics, indicative of racial identity. The "Sinhala Sports Club" (where the language is hardly spoken) would do fine as the "Maitland Club"!. Tamil Union and Moors may follow suit but the BRC (discriminatingly) may be allowed to remain as an endangered species sanctuary!

Similar gestures would be most salutary and what a revolutionary and enlightened approach this would be!

If only our bleeding hearts who wished to resurrect Sinhala culture (which had, thank you very much! survived 450 years of foreign domination) by teaching nuclear physics etc,. in the mother tongue, had only chosen German or Swahili as a common language, bereft of sentiment but endowed with utility, we would have done much better and perhaps cursed, with less vibrancy and vigour, the architects of this disastrous scheme and the consequent imprinting of racial/linguistic distinctions!.

Despite the need to continue creating imaginative (and imaginary) Ministries to accommodate "patriots" we may still remove certain abominations. To me, Culture, Sports and Religion are entirely personal matters. My private business and preferences which I could very well manage without the incursion of filthy, corrupt, incompetent and most unwelcome intruders! I say, get off our collective backs and thus help the Environment! National unity would thereby be also served Let us confront the problems that afflict all and not proffer unasked for only to cultivate patronage and ego construction. Privacy Laws should forbid interference with the aesthetic, recreational and spiritual aspects of our individual lives.

There are much more tangible opportunities for the exercise of governance.

The TNA is displaying amazing fossility (= stupidity + stubbornness) despite a few seemingly enlightened fellows in Parliament. Their cupidity and intransigence has killed too many tamil speakers and driven out of our country, so many talented Sri Lankans. Where were they when Lessons were being taught or the syllabus being designed? I believe that they can be bargained away and instead efforts directed towards enlightening the Diaspora about past follies and soliciting their help for nation building.

There is another simultaneous need. Last time round the State fiddled and prevaricated until the LTTE equipped itself into a nearly invincible and potent force. The ludicrous spectacle of urging (and blaming others for not), proscribing the LTTE while not doing so ourselves, on unconvincing pretexts while parading Peace

Talks in a series of enticing locations must not happen again. Some of the guerrillas who got out of combat fatigues to don lounge suits for the purpose, evidently continue to do so! Early detection of any signs of re-organising for armed insurrection should be firmly nipped in the bud. Much more explosives than needed for festive fire crackers are still reportedly being unearthed! It is insufficient to rant in postured fury after stamps have been printed, issued and an apology tendered by the careless states. Being mighty brave after a genuine apology is pointless

There are rumblings again of a PSC to seek a "political solution to the National Question"! Any bets that this will fail, after a great ramble through the woods of a bunch of politicos already resolved that no solution is within their capabilities or desires. It is simply a case of one brat saying "I want his toys" and the other saying "No! I won't give them'!

I have pondered further the great dichotomy of "Patriots" and "Traitors". It seems to me that those who are neither sycophants nor chronic antagonists are the vast majority. They try to be objective and unbiassed, see much that is good and more that is bad, but choose to remain silent. Whether it is disinterest, frustration or fear, I do not know. The most I fear is that they display the syndrome of "Blow you! Jack - I am alright!" Moral conscience should bestow voice on them. After all, had we not an enviable Civil Service, Professionals second to none and a deep spiritual history - but yet we remain dumb? Shame on us that we have allowed apathy to subsume such a rich heritage! Or, am I just a starry-eyed fool?





In spite of the tea Industry facing a severe financial crisis, Bogawantalawa Tea Estates was mindful of the importance of improving the quality of the teas produced in the up country factories and commissioned the Lethenty factory. The complete development of the factory which includes the installation of new machinery, refurbishment and infrastructure development cost Rs. 78 million. The company has been able to allocate such high capital investment for this project through a rights issue subscribed by the major shareholder and balance funded by bank borrowings, the company said in a statement.

Bogawantalawa Tea Estates PLC owns and manages eleven estates. The company produces 6.5 million Kilos of high grown teas annually under the estate marks such as Loinorn, Kotiyagalla, Bogawana, Campion, Fetteresso, Bridwell and Bogawantalawa. The other two factories of the company, namely, Norwood and Wanarajah factories are in the lower Dickoya area. All these factories produce some of the finest quality high grown teas with seasonal character much sought after by the tea connoisseur world over. The company with a view to improving the product quality further took a strategic decision to upgrade and re-commission the Lethenty Factory to accommodate the extra leaf from the surrounding estates in lower Dickoya area.

The Lethenty Factory is ideally situated in the upper region of Dickoya/Norton Bridge over -looking the Castlereigh reservoir and the rolling hills and the carpet of VP Tea leading down to the reservoir. This Estate was originally managed by Gordon Frazer Ltd Up-to the stage of nationalization in 1976 and taken over for management by the Sri Lanka State Plantations Corporation. In June 1992 with the privatization of estates, Bogawantalawa Tea Estates PLC took over the management.

The Factory is geared to manufacture a premium product by producing high quality Rotorvane/Orthodox Teas. The Factory has been modernized to obtain ISO/HACCP and other international certifications.The process is automated to minimize the handling and the human intervention of tea produced.The Lethenty factory, unlike other conventional tea factories with either three to four Lofts, is a single loft tea factory constructed in the more recent years.





The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has asked the Central Bank to clarify recent comments made by the bank's Governor regarding the interest rate on the US$ 2.6 billion standby arrangement facility (SBA), pointing out that exceeding the quota would not mean the entire loan carried a 3.1 percent interest rate.

Central Bank Governor Ajith Nivard Cabraal had told media through a faxed statement that if the country took on the remaining tranche amounting to US$ 800 million, the entire facility would incur an interest cost of 3.1 percent.

"Further, as of now, the interest applicable on the SBA outstanding amount of US$ 1.7 billion is very reasonable at around 1.1 per cent per annum. However, if further tranches were to be obtained under the current IMF SBA, the entire loan will attract as interest rate of an additional 2 per cent, which will make the loan a lot more expensive," Cabraal had told media as reported in these pages yesterday (30).

However, The Island Financial Review learns that the IMF had yesterday notified the Central Bank that this was not the case, prompting the Central Bank to send the following clarification:

"The IMF approved a SBA of SDR 1.65 billion (equivalent to US$ 2.6 billion) in 2009, which is equivalent to 400 percent of the country's current quota with the IMF. So far, Sri Lanka has received seven tranches amounting to US dollars 1.7 billion under the SBA and this is still lower than 300 percent of the quota. The applicable interest rate for the loan is SDR rate (SDR, special drawing rights, rate is calculated every week and published on IMF website, which is currently 0.1 percent) plus a fixed margin of 1 percent p.a. for disbursements up to 300 percent of the quota. Therefore, the interest charge for the present outstanding of US$ 1.7 billion is 1.1 percent p.a. However, if the disbursements exceed 300 percent of the quota, a surcharge of 2 percent will be added on top of the present interest rate for the credit outstanding above 300 percent."

This means that exceeding 300 percent of the quota will not mean the entire US$ 2.6 billion would incur an interest cost of 3 percent as Cabraal had said it would.

Opposition lawmaker and UNP Economic Spokesman Dr. Harsha De Silva told The Island Financial Review that he realised the Central Bank's "misleading comment" after reading the Governor's comments in these pages yesterday.

"I then spoke to IMF Sri Lanka Resident Representative Dr. Koshy Mathai and I understand the IMF had corrected the Central Bank on this matter," he said.

"The US$ 2.6 billion standby arrangement facility has been badly managed by the Central Bank. The IMF has been clear that it would not release anymore tranches unless the Central Bank changed its exchange rate policy, so to save face the Central Bank has said it did not need the remaining tranche of US$ 800 million. The governor also tried to justify this by stating that the interest rate was too high and wrongly inferred that the entire loan would be charged at 3.1 percent. Even if this was true, it is still not bad because borrowing from international markets would carry an interest rate of over 6 percent and so-called friendly nations like China are also charging us in excess of 6 percent for its loans.

"The Central Bank is borrowing dollars only to waste it on defending an indefensible rupee. This cannot be sustained for too long. The Central Bank would have to allow the rupee to reflect reality, in terms of the widening trade deficit, and also allow interest rates to go up to curtail credit demand," Dr. De Silva said, echoing similar sentiments recently expressed by Treasury Secretary Dr. P. B. Jayasundera.

US$ 1.56 billion was used up from the reserves to artificially prop up the rupee during the four month period July to October 2011. According to dealers, a further US$ 1 billion has been sold to-date since the rupee was depreciated by 3 percent in November 21. By end November 2011 reserves stood at US$ 6.2 billion, down 30.6 percent from US$ 8.1 billion in July, with the borrowed component now becoming more significant as the reserves diminish, shrinking the comfort zone.

According to our calculations, for the past one and a half months, the Central Bank has pumped in a total of almost Rs. 300 billion to ease the rupee liquidity tightening which was caused by the dollar sales. The drain on rupee liquidity has resulted in some banks finding it difficult to maintain favourable overnight balances.

Fitch Ratings agency also said the loans-to-deposits ratio of the banking sector was falling with smaller banks reaching 100 percent, an indication that liquidity was tight.

Constant selling of dollars to prop the exchange rate and simultaneous domestic liquidity tightening are signs of pressure on the balance of payments, economists point out. History is repeating itself, although to a lesser degree, where in 2008 a similar situation prevailed; the Central Bank was selling dollars to defend the exchange rate and liquidity was tight. A spike in global commodity prices made things worse and the country had to seek IMF assistance.

The only hope so far is the near US$ 27 billion inflows 'expected' later this year. Cabraal has told The Island Financial Review that foreign inflows would materialise by this quarter which would significantly ease the pressures on the balance of payments.

"If tensions in Iran get out of hand and oil prices surge again we could find ourselves in another tight spot. Reserves must be kept for a rainy, not expended in their millions each day just to satisfy the misleading notion that a stronger currency was best," an economist said.





Piramal Glass Ceylon PLC (PGC), a manufacturer of specialty glass containers for food and beverages, pharmaceuticals, and cosmetics and perfumery, has surpassed the net profit it earned during the previous financial year (2010/11) during the first nine months of the current financial year. It also reported a turnover of Rs. 1,375 million and net Profit of Rs. 205 million for the 3rd quarter ended 31st December 2011 of FY 2011/12, the company announced yesterday.

"The period under review has always been a peak sales quarter for the company due to the festive season. Yet this quarter surpassed all past records. Sales during this quarter grew by 18% from Rs. 1,166 million to Rs. 1,375 million. This was mainly due to the strong growth of 18% in the domestic sector and 17% in export sector during this quarter when compared to the same quarter of the previous year," the company said in a statement.

"The domestic market growth during the quarter was mainly contributed by the exceptional growth in the Liquor bottles (dominated by beer bottles) and Aerated Water bottles sector.

"Another significant milestone to note is that this quarter the export market achieved its total turnover through Premium Sector - high realisation bottles.

"All these factors have pushed up the Gross Profits, for the period under review, by 10%, which is line with growth in sales of 18% achieved this quarter. The Gross Profit as percentage to sales was 29% compared to 31% of the similar period previous year –a high percentage that was sustained despite the increased costs of furnace oil, LPG and other basic raw materials.

"To ensure continuous supply to the customer during the season some standard bottles were imported. These sales were done at negligible margins with the objective of ensuring long term customer relationship. This too has impacted the profitability margins. Yet this importation was inevitable as during the period PGC capacities were running at its full .

"Piramal Glass Ceylon PLC (PGC), has surpassed its previous year 12 months (FY10/11) Net Profit of Rs. 579 million within nine months during the current financial year by reporting a Net profit of Rs. 588 Million in the nine months period ending on 31st Dec ,2011.

"This net profit attributable to equity holders during the nine months period of FY 2011/12 was Rs. 588 Million , up by 47% in comparison to Rs 400 Million reported during the nine month performance of previous year FY 2010/11.

"PGC turnover grew by 23% from Rs. 3,061 million to Rs. 3,760 million compared with that of the same period last year. Export market grew by 26% with the total sale being dominated by the Premium segment bottles, which yield much higher realizations compared to mass market bottles. Domestic sales grew by 22% with Beer and Aerated Water bottle segment showing notable increase.

"The company has been successfully establishing itself in the niche bottle segments through continuously developing and investing in research and development of new colour bottles, which gives better realizations and margins.

"The finance costs are a matter of concern for the management. A steady increase in interest rates has also been observed during the past few months. PGC has also been hit by the currency rates fluctuations.

"However, the management's constant effort towards improving productivity continues to show results. A marked improvement in production efficiencies has been achieved during the nine months under review when compared with previous year. This has played a significant part in maintaining the cost of bottles when almost all input costs have shown an upward trend.

"The company is presently on Level 2 of Manufacturing Excellence and is working towards ensuring Level 3 status by the end of this calendar year. This would further help improve productivity levels.

"The management is confident that growing domestic markets coupled with the premium export market, would ensure the company's excellent performance trend in the future too.

"The management feels that PGC is on the right track of achieving its simple yet steadfast objective of fully serving the domestic market whilst increasing business in the specialized liquor and beverage segment in international markets. This approach is sync with PGC's vision of being "the most preferred Specialty Glass Packaging solutions provider in Asia by meeting customer expectation through innovative designs and manufacturing."





Identified as a strategic sector by USAID, the U.S. Embassy's development arm, small and medium enterprises (SMEs) play a crucial role in employment growth, income generation, and poverty alleviation. After attending seminar, three Trincomalee food producers received certificates for good manufacturing practices under the Sri Lanka Standards Code for food hygiene on January 11. The certificates will help the producers gain new access to markets, meaning higher profits.

"I never even dreamt of getting this certificate: USAID provided me with tremendous support, encouragement and guidance," said Sisira Sweets owner, K. G. Ranjith Sisira Kumara. Kumara ran his business from a makeshift hut before the recent training provided by the USAID, but now maintains hygienic work spaces.

Sisira Sweets and over 30 other SMEs attended a USAID-supported seminar on "Increasing Market Access by Upgrading Your Business with Required Standards."

However, many Sri Lankan SMEs think certification is beyond their reach and too costly. "The aim of this initiative was to encourage SME certification by clarifying its benefits and explaining how it is acquired," said James F Bednar, Mission Director for USAID Sri Lanka. Certified food producers enjoy improved access to supermarkets and other outlets, resulting in higher sales and profits, and more secure jobs for employees. SMEs in other lines of business may see comparable benefits, which flow through to their suppliers in the form of increased sales.





"A 35 year old man living in Norway, who is supposed to be the new leader of the Tamil guerrilla organization LTTE, is wanted by Interpol for terrorism," Norway's NRK TV reported yesterday

It said "the suspected man has been resident in this country since 2005. He is resident in a municipality on the West Coast, where he has kept a low profile. The government of Sri Lanka believes that man is the leader or one of the leaders of the remnants of the LTTE.

"NRK has talked to the chief of police in the district where the Tamil man is living, and he was not aware that a person in his district was wanted by Interpol. On the websites of Interpol it says the man is wanted for terrorism.

"Communications Director Trond Hugubakken from the Police Security Services (PST) cannot comment to NRK whether this man is known to them or not. On a general basis, he said that the PST does not start an investigation against a person who has legal residence in Norway, but it is suspected that the person concerned has made himself guilty of crimes in his country.

"Professor Øyvind Fuglerud at the Centre for Environment and Development at the University of Oslo, has a good knowledge of the situation in Sri Lanka. He does not know the person in question other than by reputation, but says that credible sources, he has been in contact with believe that he is the new leader of the LTTE.

"LTTE guerrillas were defeated by the Sri Lankan government forces in May 2010 after a strong military offensive.

"Fuglerud also knows that the President of Sri Lanka, Mahinda Rajapaksa, last autumn, in a briefing on the fight against the LTTE outside Sri Lanka, had mentioned about this particular person. On this background, says Fuglerud, it is not surprising that Sri Lanka has now called for him through Interpol.

- Internal power struggle

"He can also tell that some sources talking about a power struggle between the remnants of the Tamil guerrilla organization. And the side that this man belongs to is less willing to dialogue with the Sri Lankan government than the other side.

"He also says that in the Tamil community there is disagreement about the importance of the man who is now wanted by Interpol. It is also unclear how many people support this part of the organization, and how realistic they are. The professor has the impression that it is a closed structure. "





Reveals US attempt to bribe serving officer

January 30, 2012, 10:09 pm

by Shamindra Ferdinando

Defence Secretary Gotabhaya Rajapaksa yesterday said that none of the Majors General directly involved in eelam war IV had made a testimony to any US lawyer, in New York in 2010, alleging extrajudicial killings of civilians, surrendering LTTE cadres and dissident journalists during eelam war IV.

"Those directly involved in the campaign are still in service. They'll never betray the country for personal benefit,"

Defence Secretary Rajapaksa told The Island.

He was responding to a report by Emmanuel Stoakes posted on www.truth-out.org on Sunday (Jan.29).

The Defence Secretary said that the government expected more anti-Sri Lanka propaganda in the run-up to UN Human Rights Council sessions in Geneva late Feb-March 2012.

Citing testimony of a former General, recorded in an affidavit, the report captioned 'Sri Lankan General admits war crimes; US may hold crucial supporting evidence', claimed that the military officer had backed war crimes allegations made by human rights watchdogs. Claiming that the officer had been extremely well-placed to comment on military activity during the war as he held high-level security clearance and access to the flow of orders during the final days of the conflict, the website declined to name the officer for reasons of safety.

Asked whether any senior officers had been punished since the conclusion of the conflict, Rajapaksa said that several had been removed on disciplinary grounds, though none of them were directly involved in the campaign.

Anyone claiming to have access to secret directives, which led to alleged extrajudicial killings, may have operated outside normal chain of command, thereby being responsible for their actions, the official said.

The Defence Secretary likened the decision to conceal the identity of the person who had made the testimony to a US lawyer to that of the UNSG Ban Ki-moon's Panel of Experts (PoE) recommendation to an unprecedented 20-year embargo on both written and oral material in its hands pertaining to alleged war crimes committed by GoSL troops.

The Defence Secretary said the bottom line was that a section of the international community was making an attempt to build a case against Sri Lanka on the basis of unsubstantiated allegations made by anonymous men. He stressed that no country could be penalised on the basis of accusations made by faceless men.

The Defence Secretary recalled how the US Embassy in Colombo had made an abortive bid to bribe one-time media spokesman Maj. Gen. Prasad Samarasinghe to make allegations against Sri Lanka. The diplomat, who had made the move after the conclusion of the conflict in May 2009 offered to accommodate Maj. Gen. Samarasinghe and his family in the US. Had they possessed indisputable evidence against Sri Lanka, the US Embassy here wouldn't have tried to use a serving officer to support their sordid operation, the Defence Secretary asserted.

The Defence Secretary said that the ongoing efforts to bring to the fore a so-called affidavit should be examined in the context of an attempt to employ a serving officer against Sri Lanka.

Rajapaksa said that those accusing the Sri Lankan military of executing LTTE cadres during the final phase of the conflict had conveniently forgotten that of nearly 12,000 personnel in custody over 11,000 had been reunited with their families following rehabilitation. As the International Organisation for Migration (IOM) had access to detainees, had there been executions, it would have come out, he said, adding that the ICRC, too, was allowed to evict those wounded on the Vanni east front.

The Defence Secretary said that unlike allegations made against Sri Lanka by anonymous persons, www.truth-out.org posted an article captioned 'Afghan judges accuse US of war crimes' as an article related to the piece on Sri Lanka.

The writer, David Swanson, quoted a judge visiting the US to learn legal and political system as having said, "The United States tells other countries how to be democratic and operate within a rule of law, but the United States as role model breaks every one of those things."

A second judge was quoted as having said, "US Constitution speaks of freedom and a people's government but the United States is running secret prisons, torturing, disappearing people, and locking people up for years with no due process." The behaviour of the United States, she said, violates everything that she and her colleagues were being taught that the United States stands for. "It may seem trivial," she continued, "but it affects our daily lives." If a member of the international occupying forces gets into a hit and run with their car, and you go to the base to complain, you are threatened. They have total immunity from any rule of law, she explained.





Sri Lanka Ports Authority (SLPA) says that under the guidance of the government the Mahapola Training Institute (MPTI) of SLPA, set up by late Trade and Shipping Minister Lalith Athulathmudali, is now ready to carry out a dedicated performance, providing all essential training and awareness programmes for the relevant trainees of the maritime and naval sectors to cater to relevant job market requirements in the said sectors.

After 25 years of establishment MPTI has become a strength to boost the productivity of the operations sector of SLPA through successful training programmes.

According to the SLPA, eight training areas have been established at this institute in management, information/systems, mechanical, naval and maritime; fire fighting and industrial health, Port operations and logistics, in-service training and course development and examinations.

At the time of the inauguration in 1987, the institute only conducted 03 main training programmes, namely machine operations and port operations, electrical and electronic/mechanical and maritime and course development and administration.

Currently the institute provides training for more than 4000 trainees annually to engage in port and naval operations.

Accordingly under the Three Year Development Plan of SLPA Chairman, Priyath Bandu Wickrama, 2008-2010, the institute had initiated seven Diploma courses and reached a notable milestone in its journey.

To utilize the latest technology, the facility also maintains the Mechatronic laboratory and had established the container crane simulator. SLPA is the first institution to establish a container crane simulator in South Asia. (PH)





UNP leader Ranil Wickremesinghe yesterday claimed that despite five or six UNP Councillors voting with the Opposition recently, to give it control of the all important Finance Committee in the Colombo Municipal Council, there was no need to panic because it was the assembly as a whole which was empowered to pass legislation.

Addressing the UNP's 24 members in the CMC, including the Mayor A. J M. Muzzamil in Colombo yesterday, he expressed surprise that some UNP Councillors had ensured the election of "corrupt" persons to the Finance Committee.

"You have a duty by the voters to ensure a clean administration," the UNP leader had said adding that the Democratic People's Front led by Mano Ganeshan, had pledged its support to the UNP.

A meeting with the DPF, which has six seats in the CMC, has been arranged for February 1, Wickremesinghe said.

The Mayor, he said, would shortly unveil the Councils programme of work for this year.





The government's approach to problem solving after the end of the war has been two fold. One is to set up mechanisms that would give a different perspective on the problem. With the overall improvement in the country's post-war situation evident to both citizens and foreign visitors alike, the government has its own story to tell. The government established the Lessons Learnt and Reconciliation Commission to deal with the mounting international pressure on it on account of alleged war crimes in the last phase of the war. The report of the LLRC that was released to the public in November last year has obtained sufficient international acceptance to give the government more breathing space.

The alternative governmental approach towards dealing with problems has been to deny their reality and accuse others of engaging in conspiracies against it. This was evident in the government's response to the decision of seven media organizations to stage a Black January protest in Colombo against the killings and disappearances of journalists that have taken place with impunity in the past in different parts of the country, and which have continued to hinder the free expression of ideas even in recent times. The government utilized the power of the state media to deny and discredit this claim. Days before the protest those who were involved in organizing the protest were described by the government media as LTTE supporters, notwithstanding the demise of that organization over two and half years ago.

The name "Black January" was chosen by the organisers to put the spotlight on attacks on the media that have occurred in the month of January. The first victim was a freelance photo journalist from Trincomalee, Subramaniam Sugirdharajan who contributed to Sudar Oli. He was killed by an unidentified gunman on 24 January, 2006 in Trincomalee. It was Sugirdharajan who provided photographs to the Tamil media on the killing of the 5 youths in Trincomalee, early January, 2006. Other January attacks included the torching of the MTV/MTB media station, the killing of The Sunday Leader editor Lasantha Wickrematunga in 2009, and the disappearance of political columnist Prageeth Ekneligoda in 2010.

On the day of the protest the government acting through the police sought a court order to stop the demonstration on the grounds of public security. In addition, government members organized a much larger parallel demonstration at the same venue. At the pro-government protest there were placards labelling the organisers of the protest, as traitors and supporters of the LTTE. According to media reports, these pro-government demonstrators were armed with clubs and disrupted traffic. But the police which had filed for a court order to prevent the free media protest from taking place merely looked on.

Jaffna protest

A similar governmental strategy was followed a fortnight earlier in Jaffna in regard to a protest against missing and disappeared persons which happened on a very large scale during the war, particularly in the North and East of the country. After the war's end there was an expectation that the government would take steps to ensure that the whereabouts and fate of those who were missing or disappeared would be ascertained. But to the grief and frustration of their families this did not happen. The government has failed to heed even the interim recommendation of the LLRC in this regard which was made over a year ago.

In the present situation where there is no movement forward in finding out what happened to their loved ones, their families will ever be ready to join anyone who will champion their cause. There is a requirement that all civic activities, including social gatherings, should be notified in advance to the security forces. The large scale presence of security forces belonging to one ethnic community where the people belong to another ethnic community also exacerbates the possibility of misunderstandings and mistrust. Therefore the people feel disempowered and too intimidated to organize anything due to the tight governmental control over dissent in the North.

In this context, a demonstration in Jaffna on behalf of missing and

disappeared persons organized by the breakaway faction of the JVP obtained popular support especially amongst the families of the victims. Although the JVP has traditionally been viewed as a Sinhalese nationalist party, its breakaway faction has been trying to reach out to the Tamil people in the North. This is appreciated by the relatives of the missing persons, even those who might not have much sympathy towards the other objectives of the JVP.

However, in a manner that was similar to its treatment of the free media protest in Colombo, the government took action to disrupt this meeting. Whereas in Colombo the judiciary was utilized to limit the protest, in Jaffna the army blocked the JVP demonstrators from travelling to their destination in Jaffna. Around 800 persons who were heading towards Jaffna along the A9 road were blocked at Omanthai. According to media reports they were heading towards Jaffna in 20 vehicles including 12 buses. In addition, government members in Jaffna organized an even larger demonstration against those who were calling for the missing and disappeared to be located denouncing them as pro-LTTE activists.

Without change

The problem with these government reactions to public protests undertaken by different segments of the population is that they do nothing to resolve the problems that exist. If problems that exist are to be solved there has to be preparedness to change. If there is no preparedness to change, problems will not be solved. The killings and disappearances of journalists is a real problem and accounts for why Sri Lanka ranks close to the bottom of world rankings on media freedom. So is the problem of killings and disappearances of Tamil civilians during the war which is why there is an unceasing international demand for accountability.

In the coming month, the government will be forced to defend its human rights record before the international community at the annual sessions of the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva. One of the main achievements that the government is likely to place before those who accuse it will be the LLRC report. In their report, the Commissioners of the LLRC gave a prominent place to the protection of the free media and called on the government to investigate past killings and disappearances of journalists.

The LLRC also noted that their interim recommendation had not been implemented. These included providing details of those held in government custody to their relatives and the fate of those who were killed or disappeared to be made known.

The onus is on the government to solve problems, and not to postpone their resolution or to deny that they exist at all. There may be some problems that the passage of time heals or makes irrelevant. However, problems that have to do with the memories of people who went missing or were killed in brutal circumstances will almost surely never go away on their own. The recent decision of the French government to make it illegal to deny the alleged massacre of one million Armenians by Turkey in 1915 as an act of genocide is a pointed reminder to us in Sri Lanka. The present government of Sri Lanka must not leave the unhealed memories of the recent past to grow, multiply and haunt Sri Lanka a hundred years from now.





Commercial Credit PLC which has made a revolutionary change in Sri Lanka's financial sector gave its clients an innovative experience recently.

Out of 90,000 clients spread across the country from Dondra to Point Pedro, a group of 5,000 selected clients who have engaged in micro finance were invited to Leisure World in Kaluaggala, Avissawella. Here they spent a pleasant evening with lots of excitement and got the chance to get to know each other across all language, cultural and geographical boundaries.

They all echoed in a common voice that they were happy to join hands with Commercial Credit and were grateful for the opportunity they got to engage in micro finance activities with the support of Commercial Credit.

Present at the occasion were the Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka B. D. W. A. Silva, officials of Commercial Credit including CEO Roshan Egodage, Working Director Ms. Geya Egodage, and several other distinguished invitees.





SYDNEY (AP) — Fourteen-year-old New Zealand amateur Lydia Ko has become the youngest winner of a professional golf tour event, taking the women's New South Wales Open by four strokes Sunday.

Ko, the world's top amateur, broke Japananse star Ryo Ishikawa's mark of 15 years, 8 months, and Australian Amy Yang's women's record of 16 years, 192 days in the Australian Ladies Masters.

The South Korean-born New Zealander shot a 3-under par final round of 69 to finish 14-under for the tournament, four strokes clear of Becky Morgan of Wales in the 54-hole tournament at Oatlands Golf Club.

Britain's Laura Davies closed with a 71 and a 54-hole total of 216, 14 strokes behind.

"To be part of history is like a miracle," Ko said. "It's not something you can have by clicking your fingers."

"My driver and iron play were probably the nicest to me over the past two days," Ko added. "I also putted well, but I was in good position on most of the greens because I was able to make approaches from good places on the fairways."

Ko, a Grade 11 student at North Harbour near Auckland, plans to play about 30 tournaments this year, including professional events over the next two weeks at the Australian Masters at Royal Pines on the Gold Coast and the LPGA's Australian Open at Royal Melbourne.

"I'll play in mostly amateur tournaments after that, and my schedule looks pretty busy for the next several months," Ko said.

Ko, who says her role models are American golfers Michelle Wie and Alexis Thompson, moved to New Zealand with her family from Seoul in 2003.

"My sister (Sura) was attending school in Canada, and we were going to move there, but when I started playing golf regularly, we decided New Zealand would be the best place to come because of the weather," she said.

Her mother, Tina, travels with her to tournaments and her father, Jil-hong, is a banker based in Auckland.





MELBOURNE, Australia (AP) — Novak Djokovic ripped off his shirt and let out a primal scream, flexing his torso the way a prize fighter would after a desperate, last-round knockout.

This was the final act in Djokovic's 5-7, 6-4, 6-2, 6-7 (5), 7-5 victory over Rafael Nadal in the Australian Open final — a sweat-drenched, sneaker-squeaking 5 hour, 53-minute endurance contest that ended at 1:37 a.m. Monday morning in Melbourne.

Djokovic overcame a break in the fifth set to win his fifth Grand Slam tournament and third in a row. None, though, quite like this. This one involved tears, sweat and, yes, even a little blood. It was the longest Grand Slam singles final in the history of pro tennis and it came against Nadal, the player who built a career on his tenacity — on outlasting opponents in matches like these.

"It was obvious on the court for everybody who has watched the match that both of us, physically, we took the last drop of energy that we had from our bodies," Djokovic said. "We made history tonight and unfortunately there couldn't be two winners."

When the drama was finally over at Rod Laver Arena, the 24-year-old Djokovic joined Laver, Pete Sampras, Roger Federer and Nadal as the only men who have won three consecutive majors since the Open Era began in 1968. Nadal was his vanquished opponent in all three.

Djokovic will go for the "Nole Slam" at Roland Garros in May.

As the players waited for the trophy presentation, Nadal leaned on the net, while Djokovic sat on his haunches. Eventually, a nearby official took pity and they were given chairs and bottles of water.

Nadal held his composure during the formalities, and even opened his speech with a lighthearted one-liner.

"Good morning, everybody," he said.

A few minutes earlier, after hugging Nadal at the net, Djokovic tore off his sweat-soaked black shirt and headed toward his players' box, pumping his arms repeatedly as he roared. He walked over to his girlfriend, his coach and the rest of his support team and banged on the advertising signs at the side of the court.

"I think it was just the matter of maybe luck in some moments and matter of wanting this more than maybe other player in the certain point," Djokovic said. "It's just incredible effort. You're in pain, you're suffer(ing). You're trying to activate your legs. You're going through so much suffering your toes are bleeding. Everything is just outrageous, but you're still enjoying that pain."

The match was full of long rallies and amazing gets. Djokovic finished with 57 winners, along with 69 unforced errors. Nadal had 44 winners against 71 unforced errors.

Laver was part of the 15,000-strong crowd when the players walked on at 7:30 p.m. Sunday to flip the coin and start the warmup. He was still there, along with most of the crowd, after 2 a.m. for the trophy presentations.

Djokovic called it the most special of his five Grand Slam wins.

"This one I think comes out on the top because just the fact that we played almost six hours is incredible, incredible," he said. "I think it's probably the longest finals in the history of all Grand Slams, and just to hear that fact is making me cry, really.

"I'm very proud just to be part of this history."

It went so long because Nadal refused to yield. He was trying to avoid becoming the first man to lose three consecutive Grand Slam finals — and seeing his losing streak in finals stretch to seven against Djokovic, who beat him for the Wimbledon and U.S. Open titles and took his No. 1 ranking last year.

After a grueling four-set loss to Djokovic at Flushing Meadows last year, Nadal said that, indeed, he may have found a slight opening — a glimmer of hope for next time against the player who dominated the 2011 season and had dismantled him time and again over the year.

This one was, in fact, closer, though not necessarily because of any strategic changes, but rather, because Rafa summoned up the heart to take this one the distance.

Nadal stayed in the contest for almost every point, sprinting from one side of the court to the other, chasing down balls and making Djokovic work extra time for the victory. But in the end, the same man was holding the trophy.

Nadal thought his win in the 2008 final against Federer was the best match he's played, but gave Sunday's match a top place in his personal rankings nonetheless.

"This one was very special," he said. "But I really understand that was a really special match, and probably a match that's going to be in my mind not because I lost, no, because the way that we played."

Djokovic had his off moments during this two-week tournament Down Under. He appeared to struggle for breath in his quarterfinal win over No. 5 David Ferrer and again during his five-set semifinal win over No. 4 Andy Murray. He blamed it on allergies, and he managed to control it better against Nadal.

Yet, at times in the final, he looked as if he couldn't go on.

When Nadal fended off three break points at 4-4 in the fourth set to win the game, spectators jumped to their feet and chanted "Rafa, Rafa, Rafa, Rafa!" Djokovic had lost the momentum. Play was stopped moments later when rain started to fall and a suddenly animated Nadal threw his arms up in disbelief and walked slowly back to his chair. The stadium roof was then closed.

Djokovic picked up his game after a 10-minute break and his pockets of supporters waved their Serbian flags again and started their own competing chant of "Nole, Nole, Nole" — inserting Djokovic's nickname where "Ole" belongs in the tune and rhythm of the Spanish soccer chant.

It wasn't enough to get him through the tiebreaker in the fourth set, though, when Nadal won the last four points to finish it in 88 minutes. Nadal dropped to his knees on the baseline and pumped his arms at that point, celebrating as if he'd won the final. All he'd done was prolong it. This pair had never gone to five sets.

Just as he did during the first set, Djokovic took off a white shirt and replaced it with a black one.

It didn't seem to help immediately as he went down a break and a defeat loomed.

The match clock hit 5 hours with the score 2-2 in the fifth. Nadal won the next point and Djokovic started to stumble slightly, unsteady on his feet.

Nadal held that game without losing a point and then broke Djokovic for a 4-2 lead.

The turning point came in the next game, when Nadal had an open court but knocked a backhand volley wide down the line. He challenged the call, but the ball was clearly out. Instead of being up 40-15 and one point from a 5-2 lead, the game score became 30-30.

Djokovic found energy again and got a break point with a backhand that forced an error from Nadal. He pounced on a Nadal second serve to convert the break as the match clock ticked to 5:15, confirming it as the longest match in the history of the Australian Open. Nadal had that record, at 5:14, in his five-set semifinal win over fellow Spaniard Fernando Verdasco in 2009.

This match had already long surpassed Mats Wilander's win over Ivan Lendl at the 1988 U.S. Open, in 4:54, as the longest final in the terms of duration.

Djokovic started to look better physically and Nadal started to make some unforced errors, giving the Serbian some extra seconds between points to get his heavy breathing under control. After getting back on serve at 4-4, Djokovic kissed the crucifix around his neck twice.

With Nadal serving, the pair engaged in a 31-shot rally that Nadal finally won when Djokovic committed a backhand error. The Serb fell flat on his back on the court, fully stretched out, arms over his head, while Nadal doubled over on his side of the court, hands perched on his knees.

It appeared Djokovic was ready to throw in the towel, but he said he never thought about staying down.

"At that point I was just thinking of getting some air and trying to recover for next point," he said. "Thousand thoughts going through the mind. Trying to separate the right from wrong. Trying to prioritize the next point. I'm playing against one of the best players ever — the player that is so mentally strong. He was going for everything or nothing."

When Djokovic got the break to go up 5-4, the Serbian fans jumped up with their flags and screamed while the rest of the crowd sat in stony silence.

After kissing the crucifix around his neck repeatedly in the later games, Djokovic openly prayed out loud and looked upward as he got within points of sealing his victory.

"I was trying find every possible help and energy that I possibly can," he said. "It paid off I guess."





I note that Mr. Ananda Wanasinghe (The Island, 28th January) is concerned about Bernard's livelihood and hopes the "good judge will temper justice with mercy". He seems to suggest that Bernard be allowed to continue his service to the children of those parents, who are said to be having "complete trust" in him according to a news item in The Island of 26th January – page 12; a noble thought indeed, but our bigger concern should be for the passengers he would be transporting if allowed to do so.

A.W. says and I agree, that "determination and will power can overcome challenges". He also refers to another person - now deceased - driving for 40 years without any accident. One or two swallows don't make a summer. In fact I can mention a young woman called Jessica Cox who was born without hands, yet got a license to pilot private planes and also a black belt in Taekwondo. By accessing internet under her name one could watch several videos showing how astonishingly she operates the controls of the plane with her two feet! However such abilities cannot receive cognizance when safety of the public is at issue.

All drivers know how difficult it is to drive in Colombo and suburbs even with both hands especially when there is school traffic. A.W. himself refers to "countless reckless rascals that reign our roads"; that is exactly the point. Bernard may have driven for many years without an accident carrying thousands of students during this period. Those children, I must say, have been extremely lucky, but nobody has luck all the time and all agree that 'closing the stable door after the horse bolts' is foolish. So we should not wait until accidents occur to take action.

Road accidents are the leading cause of injury and deaths and some survivors have life long disabilities.; our annual death toll is about 2,300. According to the WHO, some high income countries have succeeded in reducing road accidents in the last decade or two and it will fall by 27% in them by 2020, but the incidence is rising in other countries . In fact, they would rise by 79% in East Asia and by 144% in South Asia by 2020. Because of this grim situation, the WHO launched 'The Decade of Road Safety' last year. Under these circumstances people with major disabilities like those having only one hand should not be permitted to drive. The worst time for disabled drivers to be at the wheel is when the roads are chockablock with school traffic.

I am glad that in the editorial of 26th January, you have highlighted the need for making "school vehicles and roads safe for school children", even referring to the poor vision of some drivers.





The Triplicane Urban Cooperative Society (TUCS), the oldest and largest in Tamil Nadu, has removed Sri Lankan biscuits from the shelves of its chain of stores and PDS shops following a protest by a little-known Tamil outfit.

Special officer R.G. Sakthi Saravanan issued the order effective immediately after receiving a petition from two members of Boycott Sri Lanka Team.

"We are shocked to learn TUCS stores in Chennai are selling biscuits and chocolates made in Sri Lanka," the petition said.

"You must be aware the Tamil Nadu government adopted a resolution in the Assembly recommending an economic embargo on Sri Lanka because of the genocide it committed on Tamils. Therefore, it is the duty of Tamils to ensure we do not buy or sell Sri Lankan products. Please stop selling Sri Lankan products at the earliest at all TUCS stores," it said.

Soon after, Mr Saravanan summoned the TUCS purchase officer and told him to get rid off all Lankan products. "These [Lankan products] procured from a local dealer were being sold at about 10 outlets. As soon as the matter was brought to my notice, I ordered their removal," Mr Saravanan told DC, adding, "We are not losing much, about Rs 12,000."

Lawyer Sudha Rama-lingam raised an alarm and said: "This is a knee-jerk reaction that denies thousands of TUCS customers the right to choose what they want to buy and eat. What if the Sinhalese retaliate? Colombo is full of our [Indian] traders and products," she said.(Deccan Chronicle)





Rajith Savanadasa titles his article - which appeared in The Island Sat Mag of 28 January - 'Galle Literary Festival: a strange world where writers watch writers.' The title is what is strange. Those writers who were in the audience did not watch so much as listen to the writers on stage. And let me assure Rajith that the GLF was not a strange world to most, and not at all to people like me, who have attended all six festivals.

His article started off cleverly with a 1993 quotation from a dissertation on television and US fiction. He elaborates the quotation by his observations on the GLF: "Thus literary festivals present a mind-boggling situation: writers, those distantly lurking oglers, become the centre of attention; to be observed, not merely by the average enthusiast, but by fellow writers and poets, aspiring scribes and journalists covering the event. Observers observing the observers." So what is wrong here? Rajith generalizes far too much. To him all writers are oglers. And the word 'observed' is incorrect. The invited writers are listened too, critically by most of the audience.

Rajith writes about the presenters: "You are the writer whose only intention is to expose your work to the public. You are no expert marketer but you want your art to be recognized, read and discussed. You are also doing this for monetary gain. It is a selfish act. You have no other intention ...." Again a puerile generalization, and off balance too. Of course writers talk about themselves and their work. Of course they want to be read. Why otherwise are they invited to be presenters at the GLF? So what on earth is this writer critical about? The entire tone of the article was damagingly sarcastic.

He critiques Izzeldin Abuelaish as someone whose "rhetoric betrays sinister notions... GLF was essentially practice for many a rally to come" since according to Rajith, this man from the Gaza strip who lost three daughters to Israeli mortar attacks "has political aspirations." We in the audience recognized his extreme fervour, sincere or with wider motivation and observed he did not answer questions posed by the moderator, as noted in an article on the GLF in the Sunday Island of the 29th. We did not lap up with critical faculties shut off to what this crusader for peace and reconciliation said.

Along with Rajith categorizing the presenters as salespersons and messengers he identifies the attendees as usurpers, students and flies on the wall. I read the article twice over, discussed it with others and was reinforced in my opinion that this writer is cynical, attempts eruditeness, and underlying all his observations, is a strong tone of condescension. Perhaps the writer should have included another category of those attending the festival – the cynic who by focusing on trivia and every slight flaw misses the whole point; someone who cannot see the wood for the trees.

I took particular objection to his looking down from a self appointed height: "The crowd, especially those Colombo–Seven aunties with their bleeding post war hearts, lapped it up" – referring to Abuelaish's rhetoric. Again a gross assumptive generalization and an ugly dig at the older women at the GLF. Was it only the men and young girls who were critical of this speaker and others? The phrase 'Colombo-Seven aunties' smacks of ageism and sexism. Yes, a number of the attendees were Colombo's English-speaking women – but doesn't every lover of reading and writing have the equal right to attend the Festival?

The final paragraph in the article proves my point that there pervades an obvious veneer of cynical condescension which at first reading will give to most the impression of erudite criticism. "A majority of Galle attendees still held on to a colonized attitude. One man referred to those who asked questions in laboured English as 'Jungle Bunnies' and these so-called J Bs did themselves no favours as they invariably overreacted and attempted to confront foreign (i.e. white) speakers. They were in turn booed, less for their bellicosity than their halting English. The whiff of cultural cringe spread through the halls" Nonsense! False! No one boos people who are not competent in English at the GLF and not in most other situations either. The GLF welcomes all. There was absolutely no cultural cringe in almost all the attendees, they were relaxed and obviously enjoying themselves. Was the cringe in the writer? I must add that I could not pin point what exactly the writer's focus was, what he was trying to get across to the reader.

Rajith Savanadasa should direct his incisive critical writing to areas more challenging than a placid literary festival – perhaps to our political scene where his brand of cynicism and pretentious literary elitism would be put to better use.





The Sri Lanka Transport Board (SLTB) says that two more super luxury buses would be deployed on the Southern Expressway by next week.

"This decision was taken since the current fleet, both SLTB and private buses are inadequate to handle the enormous number of passengers using the Southern Expressway," Chairman of the SLTB, M. D Bandusena told The Island.

The buses had been already imported from India for this purpose.

Bandusena said that both SLTB and private buses are operated on the expressway under a unified time table and so far no clash between the two parties had taken place.

"Buses are concurrently operated and there had been no effect on the income of the SLTB and the private sector could afford to deploy more buses to cater to the large number of passengers using the expressway daily," he said.

The SLTB had also deployed special inspection squads' countrywide to nab commuters traveling without tickets in SLTB buses.

These squads will also take action against bus conductors who evade issuing tickets to commuters after obtaining money.





For the first time the oldest civilization in the world, Egypt, gets a parliament elected by its people. Egyptian civilization dates back to over 4500 years and between 2649-2150 BC, it is recorded, was one of the most dynamic periods in the development of Egyptian art. The latest uprising in Egypt, which successfully ousted the continuous dictatorships, lasted only few weeks unlike in other countries and it was one hundred percent by the Egyptian people with no help from any outside powers. The casualty figure was absolutely minimal. Who will not rejoice when downtrodden people arises wins its freedom and human dignity. An Israeli journalist friend of mine writes in one of his articles; 'A revolution reflects the character of its people. I always had a special liking for the Egyptian people, because they are- by and large-devoid of aggressiveness and violence. They are singularly patient and a humourous lot. You can see this in thousands of years of recorded history and you can see it in daily life in the street.' I fully endorse his view from what I personally experienced during my visit to that country, which is fabulously rich with its history.

The Egyptian parliament convened after 60 years of military rule. Even the despised king, Farouk, who was overthrown on that day in July 1952, was not harmed. He was bundled into his luxurious yacht and sent off to Monte Carlo, there to spend the rest of his life gambling. The real leader of the revolution then was Gamal Abd-al- Nasser, with whom our world's first woman- prime minister, Sirimavo Bandaranaike, built an excellent and productive relationship, beneficial to our country. Also her husband S.W.R.D Bandaranaike was one of the first world leaders to bring the Suez Canal issue in the UN, when it was attacked by the western forces. I recalled these incidents to a taxi driver in Cairo, he was so overjoyed and refused to accept the taxi hire charges from me. When this was related to the concierge in the hotel, he was really astonished and told me the distance I have been driven will normally cost a passenger at least 30 Egyptian Pounds- approximately five US dollars. So the Egyptian parliament, democratically elected by a free people, has convened for its first session. The presidential election is also expected to be held in July, isn't it wonderful? This could be worrisome for the neighbouring Israel, because the puppets who ruled Egypt so far have always danced to the tunes of Israel's benefactors and they are no more. We believe that it is time that Israel realized the ground realities around it and developed its relation with its immediate neighbour. We extend our good wishes and congratulations to the friendly Egyptian people, on this joyful occasion.





One of Australia's leading educational service providers IIBT (International Institute of Business and Technology) is further extending the 11 year agreement it has had with their Sri Lankan Representative MTI, by using Sri Lanka as the launch pad for some new services in regional markets.

Speaking at the launch of this initiative, the Perth based Chairman of IIBT Dr. Glenn Watkins said "MTI has been our representative for both Sri Lanka and the Gulf and it has been a very successful relationship. Therefore, we are now delighted to explore some of our new educational services in the emerging regional markets like Maldives, Myanmar, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Laos, Cambodia and Mauritius – all using Sri Lanka as the base"

IIBT's focus is on encouraging students and executives to explore, expand and enjoy their competency development process. As a Registered Training Organization (RTO) in Australia , IIBT offers you quality assured and nationally recognized training.

IIBT trainers and assessors are of the highest caliber and have recent and relevant industry experience, enriching the business knowledge that participants will acquire through IIBT. "We embrace a flexible, interactive approach to learning to assist our students reach their educational goals in the pursuit of a rewarding career. We are extremely proud of our reputation for student satisfaction and teaching excellence" said Dr. Glenn Watkins.









The UNP has complained to the Court of Appeal about the decision of the Commissioner General of Lands to hand over to the Amparai Municipal Council, a block of land, which had been allocated to the UNP, on a long term lease, since 2003.

The land on Lot No. 802, was to be used for the building of the UNP office and the Youth Centre of Amparai. The Municipal Council had approved the plan, and the UNP had planned to spend Rs. 10 million on the construction.

The petitioners, Tissa Attanayake the General Secretary of the UNP, and Daya Gamage,

Chairman UNP Balamandalaya and the petitioner, who had requested the Court of Appeal to quash the allegedly arbitrary decision. They wanted the Court to direct theState to grant the UNP the right to utilize this land on a long term lease.





Pan Asia Bank ceremonially opened its Galle Branch at its new location on January 30, 2012 at No. 32, Old Matara Road, Galle.

The branch was declared open by the Chief Guest, A.G. Weerasinghe, Chairman of Pan Asia Bank and Guests of honor Mayor of Galle Methsiri De Silva and MP Galle District Nishantha Muthuhettigama. The opening ceremony was graced by CEO of Pan Asia Bank Claude Peiris, Corporate Management, customers in the area, other distinguished guests and well-wishers.

Pan Asia Bank has been in operation for more than 16 years and offers a full range of Retail, SME and Business Banking products and services. The bank which is one of the fastest growing banks in the industry opened 23 branches in 2011 and expects to extend its branch network to 100 branches by the end of 2012.

Pan Asia Bank also introduced some innovative value added products that have made a significant impact in the market in 2011, namely the Champion Saver Savings Account which offers 8% interest, a Leasing offer that could reduce your interest rate down to 1%, and Ran Loan offer (a gold loan similar to pawning) that offered maximum value to customers in need.

Pan Asia Bank Galle branch is headed by Anuradha Ranaweera. The branch will be opened from 9 am to 4 pm on weekdays and from 9 am to 1 pm on Saturdays.

The Guest of Honor at the opening Mayor of Galle Methsiri De Silva is seen declaring the branch open. Also in the picture is the MP Galle District Nishantha Muthuhettigama, Chairman of Pan Asia Bank A G Weerasinghe and CEO of Pan Asia Bank Claude Peiris.





Rebels move court against Ranil's election as UNP leader

The Colombo District Court yesterday issued notice on the entire UNP Working Committee, after considering a petition challenging the election of Ranil Wickremesinghe as leader of the UNP.

The respondents have been directed to appear in Court on February 22.

The petition, was filed by UNP Southern Provincial Councillor and Attorney-at-Law Maithri Gunaratne, who was a leading spokesperson for Karu Jayasuriya, the losing candidate at the December 19, 2011 leadership poll and the incumbent Deputy Leader Sajith Premadasa.

The UNP's new constitution stipulated that the election of office bearers has to be through a secret vote, in the event there was no consensus, the petitioner said.

However, the confidentiality requirement was violated in picking a new leader, since the ballot papers that were given to the Working Committee members and Members of Parliament had been numbered.

Gunaratne, has sought an order declaring null and void the election of Ranil Wickremesinghe as UNP leader and for a fresh poll to be held according to the laws governing the party.





NDB Investment Bank concluded its most successful year to date, raising funds worth approximately Rs. 38 billion in 2011, the bank said in a statement.

Vajira Kulatilaka, Chief Executive Officer of the Investment Banking Cluster of the NDB Group commenting on this feat mentioned, "We are proud to have retained our leadership as the dominant force in investment banking in Sri Lanka having successfully met the diverse capital

requirements of our valued clients in exploiting the growth prospects of the economy".

NDBIB raised over Rs. 13 billion through Securitisations in 2011. These funds mainly supported the growth of finance and leasing companies, with approximately Rs. 5 billion being raised for Finance companies, over Rs. 4 billion for Leasing companies and the remainder being raised for agricultural and consumer durable companies. In the debt arena, a further Rs. 9 billion was raised via debentures, syndications and other debt instruments. NDBIB successfully raised funds for its clients from tourism, consumer durables, banking and agricultural sectors in addition to leasing and finance sector, whilst expanding its product portfolio with the introduction of Islamic Financing products during the year.

NDBIB raised over Rs. 16 billion in equity capital for the year 2011. On the Initial Public Offering front, NDBIB managed two landmark IPOs during the year; Union Bank PLC and People's Leasing Company PLC. The IPO of Union Bank made history on the Colombo Stock Exchange by recording an oversubscription of 345 times, the highest ever in the history of the bourse, raising total subscriptions of over Rs. 129 billion. This IPO was preceded by a Private Placement which raised Rs. 847 million by way of an innovative tender process. The IPO of People's Leasing Company which raised over Rs. 7 billion, was the second largest IPO on the Colombo bourse, ranking after that of Dialog Axiata PLC; NDBIB acted as the Manager and Financial Advisor to the Issue of the Dialog IPO.

In addition to its dominance in the debt and equity market, the Corporate Advisory division managed three Mergers and Acquisitions transactions in 2011 involving companies in the tourism, food and beverage and manufacturing sectors. Further, NDBIB carried out several corporate restructuring transactions and numerous valuation exercises for both listed and unlisted companies from a diverse range of industries including hotels, manufacturing, plantations, hydro power etc. Commenting on this stellar performance, Darshan Perera, CEO of NDB Investment Bank stated, "We have been able to successfully fortify our service offering by executing landmark transactions in all major areas of expertise, particularly mergers

and acquisitions. There is enormous potential in this space and we hope to build on our experience and expertise to continue to play a dominant role in executing major transactions, both debt and equity, that drive our capital markets to greater heights whilst making the economy more efficient".

In 2011, the Company continued to revolutionise the investment banking arena of the country with the signing of a landmark strategic alliance between NDB Group and DBS Bank, Singapore. This alliance, which focuses on investment banking activities, gives NDBIB access to a large base of clients and investors through the global network of DBS. Emboldened by this new partnership, NDBIB looks forward to a successful year ahead, building upon its strong foundations through the NDB Group and its many astounding successes in 2011.





CMC Tamil translator in bogus abduction arrested

January 31, 2012, 7:22 am

By Harischandra Gunaratna

The police on Sunday arrested a translator, attached to the Colombo Municipal Council and a resident of Trincomalee, who had gone into hiding claiming that he was abducted on January 21 and phoned his wife for her to lodge a complaint at the Harbour police in Trincomalee about his 'abduction' by an unidentified group.

Police spokesman SP Ajith Rohana said: "The suspect Sathyaraj Sathyaseelan was attempting to mislead the police and met with his waterloo." He had returned to Trincomalee in a night bus from Colombo around

5.00 a.m. on January 21 and phoned his wife claiming that he had been arrested by the police and taken to an unknown destination. The translator had told his spouse that the place where he was detained looked like a police station.

Based on what he said, the woman had complained to the Harbour police.

According to his wife, there had been no communication between them since.

The Harbour police immediately launched an investigation and the missing man was found hiding at a house in Chunnakam.

He is being interrogated.

Sources said that the man had visited his paramour and was planning to go overseas.

SP Rohana said that he could not attribute any reasons to the man's behavior until investigations were over.





All political party leaders to be consulted on national question

President Mahinda Rajapaksa yesterday denied that he ever told India he would go beyond the 13th Amendment to the Constitution as a solution to the ethnic problem.

Responding to a question at a breakfast meeting with heads of print and electronic media yesterday at Temple Trees whether he had promised India to go beyond the 13th Amendment, the President said: "Oh, No! How can I make promises like that? I have referred the issue to Parliament. I have nominated government representatives to the PSC. But unfortunately, neither the UNP nor the JVP has nominated theirs. It is the same with the Tamil National Alliance as well."

When asked for his personal opinion on the matter, President Rajapaksa said that if he spelt out his views, then there would be criticism in the media that he had brought in his opinion and that he was trying to push it through Parliament. He said, "We can use our parliamentary majority to do that, but I won't. The Parliamentary Select Committee is an open forum. I will be implementing what is agreed upon there."

The President said the land powers were vested with the Provincial Councils and the contentious issue was the police powers. "The TNA is now talking the way the LTTE used to. What it is asking for is not of concern to the people of Kilinochchi. These are the matters that we should take cognisance of. The stand of the TNA is not clear."

President Rajapaksa said that he would meet all political party leaders to discuss the national issue. "The Opposition, the media, social activists and all stakeholders should unite to find a lasting solutions to these long standing issues, but no one seems to be making use of the open form that is available."

Asked whether he thought it advisable to call an all party conference to deliberate on these matters, President Rajapaksa said he would summon all political parties and devise a mechanism to ascertain their views on the issue. "We want the support of not only the political parties but also the media. This is a national issue and we need the support of all stakeholders.





TEHRAN (FNA) - India's Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee underlined New Delhi's resolve to continue oil imports from Iran despite the sanctions imposed on Iranian oil by the US and the European Union.

It is not possible for India to take any decision to reduce the imports from Iran drastically, because among the countries which can provide the requirement of the emerging economies, Iran is an important one," Mukherjee told reporters in Chicago at the end of a two-day visit.

India, the world's fourth-largest petroleum consumer, is Iran's second largest oil customer after China and purchases around $12 billion worth of Iranian crude every year, about 12 percent of its consumption.

After months of debates, the EU member states eventually reached an agreement in their meeting on January 23 to sanction oil imports from Iran and freeze the assets of Iran's Central Bank within the EU.

Meantime, demand is growing for Iranian crude oil in Asian and African markets after the EU's fresh decision.

Iran is currently supplying 100% of Sri Lanka's oil needs, 51% of Turkey, 25% of South Africa, 14% of Greece, 13% of Italy and Spain, 11% of India and China and 10% of Japan and South Korea's oil demands.

The statistical figures of Iran's oil exports proves that the US and EU oil embargo against Iran has little or no impact on demand for Iran's oil in global markets.

The growing demand for Iran's oil also shows that EU sanctions will leave no results but growth in global oil prices since India, China and South Africa have already demanded an increase in oil imports from Iran.

Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd, India's biggest buyer of Iranian crude, announced earlier this month that it has not cut purchase of Iranian oil supplies despite the United States' declared sanctions against Tehran.

Meantime, China made it clear last week that, whatever the commercial or political calculations driving ups and downs in its crude orders from Iran, it rejects in principle unilateral US sanctions.

"Iran is also an extremely big oil supplier to China, and we hope that China's oil imports won't be affected, because this is needed for our development," Chinese Vice Foreign Minister Zhai Jun told a news conference in answer to a question about whether Beijing could curtail crude from Iran under US pressure.

"We oppose applying pressure and sanctions, because these approaches won't solve the problems. They never have," Zhai told the briefing about Wen's six-day visit to Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Qatar.

"We hope that these unilateral sanctions will not affect China's interests."





Q: What are your current thoughts on the post war economic growth in Sri Lanka and future prospects?

A: The past 2 1⁄2 years, since the end of the war, have been remarkable. In the view of many, it may be one of the greatest economic transitions from a "conflict" to a "non-conflict" situation in world history. These successes are visible physically, as well as clear from documented results: Growth at more than 8% in consecutive years for the first time in our history; Significantly improved economic fundamentals, in a world of turmoil; Rapidly improved debt levels compared to GDP, where for the first time in 30 years the Debt to GDP ratio declined below 80%; Mid-single digit inflation; 4.3% unemployment; Comfortable level of reserves; Below 7% fiscal deficit. These are all amazing successes, which underpin the post-war economy. As a result, we now have an excellent platform to launch our next phase of growth. It is our projection that within the next 3 to 4 years, GDP will rise to about USD 100 billion from the current USD 59 billion. When that happens, our current per capita income of USD 2,830 will rise well beyond USD 4,000.

Q: You said in an interview with me late last year that the growth targets for 2012 will be raised as the 2011 performances have been extremely good. On the other hand, your growth projections have now been reduced to 8% from the earlier 8.3%. Why?

A: As everyone knows, the world has undergone massive turmoil since the second half of 2011. The IMF reduced its world growth forecast several times last year. So have almost all other multilateral agencies and global analysts. When circumstances change, forecasts also change. We have to understand that. But, what is important to note is that, even in the midst of such turmoil, Sri Lanka has been able to maintain a high growth and sound economic fundamentals. Nevertheless, the recent new difficulties faced by other countries which can have an impact on our economy, have to be factored into our projections, and that is why we have prudently lowered our growth estimates for 2012.

Q: On the contrary, India, which has been growing at a much rapid rate than Sri Lanka, has downsized their growth targets for 2012 from 8.5% to 7%. In that light, can Sri Lanka have a much smaller drop than India?

A: Economic growth forecasts do not depend on the size of the country or growth in the past. Each country or region will have to make its own assessments of growth based upon its own circumstances. It will be silly and irresponsible for us to just follow another country's growth numbers blindly.

Q: What sectors of the economy would you expect to perform well?

A: We expect all three major sectors, agriculture, industry and services to perform well in 2012. Agriculture in particular, will have a much better growth than last year, while industry and services are expected to record satisfactory growth. At the same time, we expect certain sub-sectors like tourism, Port related activities, transport, telecommunication, banking, education and energy sectors to also do well.

Q: How do you see the performance of the industrial exports sector given that there will be global recession this year?

A: Of course, it is going to be challenging for our industries to deliver high growth in today's difficult world. But I think our industries have developed certain niche markets as well as become a lot more productive, which will give them the confidence to perform well in tough times. I think our industries' preparation during the time we faced the threat of GSP+ removal, helped them to develop a maturity to deal with tough situations. Therefore, in a strange sort of a way, the EU helped us to believe in ourselves, even though the intention may have been different. It is my view that we should continue to reach out for new horizons, and strive to further improve our productivity, design and other capacities. Such traits should necessarily be a part of our long term strategy if we are to continue our successes.

Q: How do you see the performance of the service sector in the context of the comments made by Sri Lanka Ports Authority Chairman Dr Priyath Bandu Wickrema to this column (The inaugural Island Financial Review/ State Affairs Column of 16/1/2012) that transshipment volumes and freight rates were expected to dip with the global recession?

A: I believe Dr. Wickrema's comments have been made in a universal sense, and in the context of global trends. Even so, there would still be scope for specific ports or countries to perform comparatively better this year. That is the challenge before us too, and I am confident that our Port sector of today can rise to that challenge.

Q: Your Central Bank roadmap specifies a sharp increase in Foreign Direct Investments to Sri Lanka. Is that realistic, given the scaling down of the world economy?

A: Our figures for FDI for 2012 are based upon the information that we have accumulated diligently, and therefore our targets are realistic and attainable. If you look at our past track record, you would see that we have been quite accurate on our targets, and have therefore developed a credibility with our stakeholders. Nevertheless, we cannot be complacent that outcomes will take place automatically, and hence we will have to work diligently to realize these targets. We must aim high, if we are to be successful. If we choose to be in our comfort zones, it is unlikely that real progress would take place. We must also try to have realistic targets which need serious effort and perseverance to achieve. Although some pessimistic people would see our projections as being over-ambitious, I thinkour goals, including the FDI targets, are achievable and we should try to reach these levels. Let me remind you that some people predicted that our FDI will never exceed USD 1 billion. In 2007, some pundits estimated our Rupee to reach Rs.150/- against the USD. Some claimed that our inflation levels will end up like in Zimbabwe! Some shamefully told prospective investors not to subscribe for Sri Lankan Bonds! But what happened? We delivered and the country succeeded!

Q: FDIs to India have been reduced by 50%. So, is it unfair to say that your projections are over ambitious?

A: Once again, what I have to say is that India and Sri Lanka are different. India will make their projections based on their figures, and we, on ours. This simple fact must be clearly understood.

Q: On the Balance of Trade. Sri Lanka's imports were almost double that of exports. Is the trade deficit sustainable?

A: It is true that our trade deficit has widened substantially in 2011, despite the better-than-expected performance in exports. To a great extent, this increase was because import expenditure on motor vehicles increased by nearly 100% to USD 1 billion, value of oil imports increased by over 50% to USD 4.5 billion and gold imports increased by more than six fold to about USD 600 million last year. Notwithstanding such sharp increases, the Sri Lankan authorities did not adopt any restrictive policies, such as raising import duties, imposing import margins, placing credit ceilings, etc., since we felt that the unexpectedly high trade deficit in 2011 was temporary, and that growth in imports should be allowed to take place, particularly since it is likely that the import growth would moderate in 2012. We also believed that we must allow the necessary space for the structural changes that are taking place in our economy, to take effect and thereby address the future current account dynamics in a more fundamental manner. In our view, the newly emerging structural changes will effectively deal with the effects of a widening trade gap in time to come, and therefore the overall external liquidity in 2012 is expected to improve significantly.

Q: Media reports said that the Finance Ministry is of the view that the exchange rates and the interest rates have to be adjusted in order to reduce imports and increase exports and thereby reduce the trade deficit. What are our views on this?

A: Sometimes, the Finance Ministry and the Central Bank of a country can have different views on the same subject. It is quite natural and happens all over the world. In Sri Lanka, if the Finance Ministry and the Central Bank agree on an issue, some people say the Central Bank is not independent. If we do not fully agree with each other, the same people say we are fighting! But, I can tell you that the Finance Ministry and the Central Bank in Sri Lanka have a clear understanding on all key issues, and we work well together. The excellent economic results that everyone is enjoying today are, to a great extent, due to our policy frameworks being appropriate and complementary. Even in the instance you have cited, we have reached policy congruence and we are proceeding smoothly. Both the Finance Ministry and the Central Bank are well aware of the methods by which the trade deficit could be reduced to sustainable levels, and during this year, the policy package required to deal with this situation would be implemented.

Q: The uncultivated lands in the North were brought to cultivation in the immediate aftermath of the completion of the war. Can we expect some value addition to the economy?

A: Of course. In fact it has already happened, not only in the North and East, but in the entire country. The extent of land cultivated in the North has also increased four-fold in just two years. Consequently, nearly 100 lorry loads of vegetables from the North now arrive in Dambulla, daily. During the floods of last year, the impact of vegetable shortages was not felt in the country because the shortfall in supply was effectively compensated by vegetables and paddy supplies from the North. The fisheries industry too, has picked up sharply and the fish harvests in the Northern Province are fast approaching the pre-1983 levels. Milk production too, is rapidly rising. With all these initiatives, by the end of this year the Northern Province is expected to achieve record level harvests in all forms of agriculture.

Q: Your Central Bank officials were quoted in news reports late last year that four areas in the Northern Province were to begin fresh cultivation of paddy and other cash crops. What is happening there?

A: As I have already said, many cultivation projects are thriving in all five districts of the Northern Province. New lands are opening out for agriculture, and lands previously cultivated are being utilized once again. Tanks are being restored. Transport systems are being improved. Storage capacity is being expanded. Loans are being granted to farmers for water pumps, tractors, deep well pumps, sprayers, etc. and for working capital. Irrigation canals are being repaired. Massive quantities of cement and other building materials that are being demanded in the North to support the extensive construction effort, is made available. All these initiatives are creating the right conditions for the enhanced cultivation of paddy and other cash crops. Even more importantly, all these ventures are providing viable livelihood opportunities to the thousands of people who have been resettled, and that is helping to restore normalcy as well as foster reconciliation in those areas at a fast pace.

Q: On the positive side, the Central Bank has provided many cultivation loans to farmers in the North and the East which has yielded rich dividends. Can you elaborate?

A: In the past 2 years, more than 100,000 loans totaling over Rs 9 billion have been granted by Participating Financial Institutions under Central Bank guided schemes, in the North and the East. This programme has been on a "fast track" since the end of the conflict and I myself have been following the progress, clearing bottlenecks if and when such obstacles arise. By fast-tracking those programmes, we want to send a clear signal to the people in these Provinces that we are actively and sincerely supporting their progress. Sometimes, certain NGOs undertake some small assistance and proudly show-off their projects in the media, giving the impression that they are doing all the work in the North or East. However, if you carefully evaluate the work that has been done, you will see that the major development work has been carried out by the Government Agencies in the sectors of roads, hospitals, electricity, Government buildings, fishery harbours, schools, court houses, play grounds, community centers, houses, latrines, libraries, etc. using public funds. Unfortunately, those unprecedented investments and improvements do not seem to make the news! Therefore, I am grateful to you for your timely question.

Q: Tea and Rubber prices are expected to remain depressed this year. So, how can there be growth in the value addition in the agriculture sector?

A: The outlook for Tea and Rubber is not adverse. The value addition has been, and is expected to be, impressive. The Tea industry reached the billion dollar level only in the year 2009. Thereafter, it has been performing well due to the efforts of many stakeholders, and I am personally pleased with the progress. I think both tea and rubber industries are now consciously positioning themselves to deliver more value addition. Therefore, we could expect even better results in the coming years.

Q: Although unemployment is at a historic low at 4.7%, youth unemployment is at around 20%. This is also reflected in the recent spate of unrest in the university system. How do you propose to address this issue, given the mismatch in the employment demands and the educational systems prevailing now?

A: Your contention that the youth unemployment is around 20% is not correct. Our figures indicate that it is much lower than that. At the same time, the pockets of student unrest is not connected to any unemployment situation, but are demonstrations driven by political motivations of a few disruptive elements. The larger student population do not support these efforts. At the same time, the mismatch between employment demand and educational systems is something that had been identified more than a decade ago by policy makers. Today, many universities and tertiary educational institutions are actively addressing this issue. A lot of progress has been made, but still more needs to be done. I think, the recent initiatives introduced in respect of English education and enhancement of IT skills among youth, are very important steps and I am hopeful that these measures would further improve the situation.

Q: There is a shortage of jobs with the mismatch of jobs where blue collar workers are gradually going for white collar jobs. What are your thoughts on this?

A: On a continuous basis, we note that jobs are being created. But, many employers say that although there are jobs available, there are not enough workers to fill such positions! Just look at yours and other newspapers on a Sunday, and you will realize that. But, at the same time, I agree that there is a slight shift where some blue collar workers are seeking white collar jobs. This is a natural progression in an economy that is undergoing a structural change in the education, training and skills spheres of its younger work force. It is also evidence of greater awareness of newly emerging opportunities. My view is that, we need to see such an evolution not as a threat, but as an opportunity. If there is a migration of blue colour workers for white colour jobs, the remedy is not to prevent it, but to ensure that the productivity levels of the agricultural ventures and on the factory floor, are enhanced so as to deliver more yield and out put with less input. That would compel organizations to develop better systems, improve work flows, train workers better, use technology more effectively, and inculcate a better work ethic.

Q: Despite the rapid growth rates in the post war era, there has not been any reduction in the poverty levels. What are your perceptions on this?

A: Contrary to what you say, there has been clear reduction in the poverty levels. In fact, the sharpest decline in poverty in our history has taken place in the past 6 years. Today, the percentage of people in poverty has declined to around 8% from 15.6% in 2005. In particular, poverty in the rural and estate sectors has come down dramatically. If we go along this path, reaching a stage of development where poverty is negligible, could be attained in the short to medium term. In my view, three major strategies implemented by the Government and other agencies have contributed towards this sharp poverty reduction. First, the concreting of rural roads which helped increase the mobility of people in the villages; Second, the provision of electricity to villages under the "Lighting Sri Lanka" initiative which increased electricity coverage from 74% of the country in 2005 to 92% by 2011, and Third, the quick and wide expansion of the banking and financial systems to provide access to finance to people hitherto deprived of access to the formal financial system.

Q: As the Central Bank Governor, your typical role is to ensure price stability. How are you going to ensure that, given your multiple roles for the government such as the now failed bid of hosting the 2018 Commonwealth Games?

A: Sri Lanka is a developing nation coming out of a conflict situation with a per capita income currently in the 2,000 to 3,000 US dollar range. In that scenario, the positive "branding" of the country is a very important economic goal. We have suffered immensely with over 30 years of terrorism, and the country has hit the world headlines during that time mainly for the wrong reasons! We now have to move forward and give our nation a fresh "brand", and we cannot leave that branding exercise to chance. We have to be pro-active, and take the steps to place Sri Lanka on the world map for the right reasons. As a key member of the Sri Lankan administration, I am happy to contribute my time and energy towards that vital cause.

In my view, the bid to host the 2018 Commonwealth Games in Hambantota provided a wonderful opportunity for Sri Lanka to "show-case" the country and to communicate the new circumstances and confidence in our economy to the outside world. Obviously, our story was well received, because 27 nations out of 70 were convinced that an emerging City in Sri Lanka, Hambantota was a better option to host the Commonwealth Games in 2018 than one of Australia's foremost cities, Gold Coast. The reviews and responses from those who followed our bid indicate that many millions from all over the world were exposed to the massive development that is taking place in Sri Lanka. In that background, although we did not finally win the right to host the 2018 Games, Hambantota and Sri Lanka were firmly placed on the world map, and large numbers of inquiries for investments in Hambantota and adjoining districts have been flowing in, as a result of this global awareness. Unfortunately, a few people in Sri Lanka still seethe negative side only, and that may be why they see it only as a failed bid, although it has been publicly acknowledged by the Commonwealth Games Federation as one of the best bids that has ever been presented. I would also like to add that giving leadership to this bid, together with the Sports Minister did not result in any neglect of my normal duties, and in fact it was one of the most satisfying experiences in my career.

Q: The Central Bank was established under the Monetary Law Act of 1948. Are you allowed to maintain that role? In short, is the government listening to you?

A: The Government has provided optimum space to the Central Bank to carry out its role as per the Monetary Law Act, and we must be thankful for that understanding and support. The effectiveness and efficiency of the Central Bank has been greatly due to the cooperation that we have received from the Government which we must appreciate. I must also state that the Government/Central Bank relationship has been based upon mutual respect and a desire to achieve the same national economic goals. To your specific question as to whether the Government has been listening to the Central Bank, I will say "Yes".

Q: Arising from that, were you consulted or kept informed when President Mahinda Rajapaksa, in his capacity of Minister of Finance and Planning, depreciated the Rupee by 3% against the United States Dollar?

A: I have a clear understanding and in-depth knowledge of the economic policy direction as set out by His Excellency the President, and I have always been consulted in the making of key economic decisions. It is a privilege that I greatly value, and I am happy to enjoy the confidence of the H E the President. Also, I must place on record that the Central Bank has been able to deal with many challenging situations in the past 6 years as a result of the wise and practical guidance that I have received from the HE the President.

May I also tell you that the depreciation or appreciation of a currency is a very sensitive issue, and needs to be handled in the most sensible and practical manner. If confusing signals are communicated, it could lead to intense speculation and that could be damaging for the economy. That is why it was felt by HE President and his economic team that there must be clarity in relation to the degree of movement of the Sri Lankan rupee against the US dollar, as otherwise it may have led to unnecessary speculation. Some may say that it was an unorthodox move, but it must be appreciated that, during challenging times, some unorthodox moves may be better than traditional steps.

Q: Also on the 3% devaluation. Do you believe that the move was correct or should the decision have come at a later date?

A: At different times, different moves need to be made in an economy to maintain thrust and to give support to particular sectors. In this case, it was felt that additional support was needed to be given to exporters to enhance their competitiveness in the light of the challenging global circumstances. Naturally, the implementation of such a policy poses additional challenges or costs to other sectors. But, that is what "balancing" is all about. There is nothing called a free policy prescription. Every policy has different implications on different segments of the economy. That is why the political opposition has a chance to criticize almost every policy action of the authorities. They can and will, always talk about the side that will have some disadvantage as a result of a policy change. For example, if the interest rate goes up, they will get onto the side of "business", and say how difficult it is to do business because of the high interest. If the interest rate comes down, they will get onto the side of "savers", and say how difficult it is for "savers" because their incomes have eroded! Notwithstanding such opportunities for criticism, authorities have to take decisions based on their judgment of an issue, and in that context, it is easily seen that the 3% devaluation provides a clear benefit to exporters, and that such support was needed now.

Q: You were defending the exchange rate. Do you think that you should release the exchange rate pressure and lower the interest rate? What do you see as the economic consequences? Do you think that it would have adverse implications?

A: Our decisions in relation to the exchange rate management and the interest rates are taken after serious discussions which involve the consideration of many key factors. In fact, the Monetary Policy Committee, the Monetary Policy Consultative Committee and the Monetary Board have regular meetings for the deliberations of these and other connected matters. Therefore, I can tell you that these exchange rate and interest rate decisions are not sudden or ad-hoc decisions

Our exchange rate policy stance has been articulated by us on many occasions, but for purpose of record, let me say it once again, so that it is abundantly clear. The Central Bank's policy is to maintain a stable exchange rate, thereby safeguarding the interest of thousands of stakeholders. At the same time, the Central Bank will provide a degree of flexibility to the currency, based upon a longer term time horizon, without allowing distortions in the form of rapid depreciations or appreciations to take place, because of Forex availability or other wise in the market, on a daily or weekly basis. Therefore, as a logical extension of that policy, the Central Bank may absorb Forex at times when there is an excess of Forex in the market and build up its reserves, and may supply Forex to the market when there is a shortage.

Such role is somewhat similar to the role that is played by the Paddy Marketing Board when it is called upon to maintain stable prices for paddy. In times of a plentiful supply of paddy, the Paddy Marketing Board buys excess paddy and holds in reserve in their warehouses. Thereafter, until the next harvest, it gradually releases the paddy from its warehouses into the market, so that there is no shortage in the market. If the Paddy Marketing Board does not do what it does, paddy prices may crash when there is a good harvest with the farmers being badly hurt. It may also be appreciated that, if the Paddy Marketing Board did not build up a paddy reserve, and therefore could not supply paddy as and when there was a shortage in the market, the price of paddy may rise steeply, as the price could be pushed up by traders who hold stocks, thereby making the consumers pay an exorbitantly high price. Therefore, you can see that with the timely intervention of the Paddy Marketing Board on both sides of the market, both the farmer and the consumer will be protected, and will be able to enjoy fair prices.

The Central Bank's main role as per the Monetary Law Act is to deliver price and economic stability to the country. In that endeavour, we believe that maintaining a stable exchange rate in a volatile environment is a vitally important factor. We have done that successfully through the judicious implementation of many of our policies, including our exchange rate policy. We have also helped to maintain the long-term value of savings of all Sri Lankans, which is crucial if we are to attract long term savings. I can confidently state that if we did not do what we did, and not acted with foresight, our economy would have been in turmoil today, given the worldwide chaos.

That is why, even grudgingly, our critics will have to concede that our policy has worked in practice, because our economy has been able to record major successes, and achieve stability, whereas financial chaos and intense instability have been the prevailing order in the world.

Q: You have taken critical decisions in the past against all odds to defend the exchange rates by intervening in the market and also building reserves. How confident are you of making the Rupee stable and adequate levels of reserves?

A: Your pre-judgment that our decisions have been taken "against all odds"seems to suggest that it is a reckless one. That is furthest from the correct situation. Our decisions have been carefully thought through and professionally executed. It was due to our anticipation and judgment that Sri Lanka was able to gradually build its external reserves since mid-2009 to a "higher-than-required" level of US dollars 8.2 billion by mid-August 2011. This prudent and timely accumulation was due to initiatives that resulted in strong inflows into the current account as well as to the capital and financial accounts. Such accumulation was deliberately done at the time it was done, to respond to the shortage that was anticipated to take place in the latter part of the year. Many forget, conveniently or otherwise,that our absorption of forex had been more than our requirements at that time, and that is why we had record level reserves, in the first instance. On our part it was deliberately done. If we did not do so, the rupee would have rapidly appreciated in the first half of 2011, and exporters would have been badly hit. At the same time, we would not have had the required reserves to respond to the shortage. Now, even after supplying forex during the time of the shortage, our reserves are moving towards more normal levels, while the rupee has been kept stable. So, we have achieved both objectives. In the next few months, when the new flows come in, reserves could once again be built up to "higher-than-needed" levels so as to give ourselves greater space in the future.

Q: You boasted of a US$ 8 billion in foreign reserves, but the heart of the matter is that they are based on borrowings! Reserves are also gradually decreasing as well. What are your thoughts on this?

A: These suggestions about "borrowed" and "non-borrowed" reserves have no real meaning. The reserves of Central Banks all over the world are expressed according to the same norms, and our computation of reserves is no different to others. This notion of borrowed and non-borrowed reserves has been brought up for discussion, because of the confusion that some people seem to have between Government external debt and Central Bank reserves. These two are quite different to each other, and the sooner we understand this reality, the better. I noted that even an economist turned politician had got this wrong recently when he was waxing eloquent on the interest rate on the IMF loan! So much for the knowledge of the basics!

Up until about 2008, Sri Lanka had only about 2 to 21⁄2 billion US dollars as reserves. Even in July 2009, when we entered into the IMF Agreement, the reserve level envisaged at the end of the programme was a mere 3 1⁄2 billion US dollars! If, at that time, we spoke about USD 6 billion reserves, we would have been criticized on the grounds that we are over ambitious! Today, when the reserve levels are around the 6 billion US dollar mark, some people are talking about decreasing reserves! I want to reiterate, once again that our reserves are adequate and the expected inflows would enhance these levels to a much higher level in time to come.

Q: The Central Bank's holding on the Treasury Bills has increased in recent months which is an indication of budget financing through high powered money. The policy seems to be self-defeating. What are your thoughts on this?

A: An economy is essentially managed as a dynamic balance since changes take place daily. In steering the economy however, the Central Bank has a series of policy implementation instruments, which it uses judiciously, depending upon the evolving circumstances. The high powered Reserve Money released by the Central Bank to the economy is one such key policy instrument that is used carefully to control money supply. During the past 3 years, we have successfully managed to bring down the inflation to mid-single digit level as announced by us. That shows that our policy implementation has been disciplined, controlled and practical. Since one of our main Monetary Policy anchors is the Reserve Money, and since we exert control through the Reserve Money, the quantum of Central Bank holdings of Treasury Bills would not be all that significant as long as Reserve Money is according to the desired levels. Hence, the Central Bank's Treasury Bills holdings could fluctuate according to the market and national needs. As it is today the Central Bank's holdings do not pose any major risk to the economy and indeed, in the current instance it supports stability. Hence, it is far from being "self-defeating".

Q: One of the core areas that the government is focusing on is tourism, hoping to cash in on the peace dividends, which seems logical. How do you see the tourism sector impacting and/or influencing the Balance of Payments?

A: Tourism is a sector which can yield quick results and a fast trickle-down effect. That is why on the back of peace, the Government has encouragedthe rapid growth of this sector. The private sector too has responded admirably and we are pleased by this response. I remember when I first spoke of 2 1⁄2 million tourists and 2 1⁄2 billion US dollar inflows as targets for Tourism by 2016, some people laughed. Today, no one is laughing, since it can be seen that these targets are within our reach. We have also been carefully following the steps taken by the Government and the Private sector in this sector, and I am happy that this sector can now grow to be a vital factor in Sri Lanka's growth story and the Balance of Payments equation.

Q: In that context, hoteliers say that the arrivals are yet from the low income and low spending groups and not the real up market tourists. Don't you think that the government should change its strategies to procure the up market arrivals with value additions to the industry, rather than merely concentrate on numbers?

A: In tourism, numbers and quality are both important. Instead of debating as to what category of tourists we wish to attract, let us remember that Sri Lanka can easily have two types of tourists and cater for both categories. In that way, we can cater for some tourists who are budget travelers, and for otherswho are up-market tourists who would be attracted to the boutique-type properties and the high end of services.

Q: Given the regional disparities in economic development and growth, how do you see the provision of loans to the SME sector, which will mitigate this to some degree?

A: Fortunately, the regional disparities in our country have been reducing over the past 6 years, and our records indicate that SME loans have seen a sharp increase. The Mahinda Chintana recognizes the importance of supporting the SME sector and there have been many policy measures that have been implemented to support this policy stance.

Of course, there would be more to be done in this regard, and the banks and financial institutions have been given the key guidelines as to how this should be done. In that light, I am confident that we would see great progress in this regard, in 2012 and over the next few years.

Q: Why is the government making inroads into the ownership of the private banks through the purchase of equity and shareholdings through state organs such as the EPF and ETF? Both banks and investors are in morbid fear that this was a gradual process of making them state owned banks. Your comments?

A: I do not think that there is any such fear in the minds of genuine investors. Thisis a bogus bogey that a politically motivated, vociferous economist seems to be articulating. We all know that the previous Government wanted to hand over the management of the EPF to private fund managers, which could have led to a few favourites to earn some thumping management fees!As we know, the normal fee for Fund Management is about 2% of the Fund size and using that as the basis, they would have been happily siphoning off around 20 billion rupees each year as their fees from the EPF!

The excellent results that have been generated by the current EPF management to its members now makes it impossible for those politicians to canvas their case within or outside the country, and that is probably why they are hell-bent on discrediting the EPF. For the record, may I also state that in the past few years, the returns that the EPF has provided to its members has been outstanding and has far exceeded inflation.

In accordance with Monetary Board guidelines, the EPF management has also taken measures to diversify its investment portfolio in a limited manner to include investments in the equity market with a long term view, so as to provide an above average return to the members while maintaining the safety of the Fund. In that context, the EPF has invested 92% of its funds in Government Securities and the balance about 8% of its funds in selected stocks in the Colombo Stock Exchange and other selected investments. In this regard, we must also recognize the fact that the EPF is a long term super-annuation Fund which is expected to provide a satisfactory and adequate return over the longer term. In that context, its results should not be evaluated like those of hedge funds that enter and exit from investments on an overnight basis, and are therefore mainly guided by the short term "marked-to-market" valuations.

I must also tell you that in the EPF portfolio of selected investments in the CSE, are stocks of well managed growth enterprises, including several listed blue-chip Banks. Needless to say, there can be nothing objectionable about such investments and according to my understanding, in today's globally challenging environment many welcome the EPF's decision to invest in listed Companies, especially the Banks.

Q: The Colombo Stock Exchange is plummeting faster than the Titanic. Share prices of top blue chips such as John Keells Holdings, Aitken Spence, Commercial Bank and Hatton National Bank have also dipped. Given that the performance of a Stock Exchange is said to be the barometer of the economy, what is the economic impact?

A: I think your question is prompted by the recent sentiments expressed by an economist turned politician who has a super track-record of making irresponsible and reckless predictions that ultimately work in the reverse, and embarrass him severely. Even as you ask me the question, we see the Titanic rising from the depths! Unfortunately, the economist turned politician, who was gleefully waiting for the stock market to crash, will now have to, as usual, eat the humble pie and face the wrath of his furious Leader. Maybe someday, people will learn that it is unwise to make sweeping statements, based on temporary stock market movements! Be that it may, we must get an important point clear. Many Sri Lankan companies which are quoted on the Colombo Stock Exchange have adequate value and also possess a reasonable growth potential. At the same time, Sri Lanka is on a steady growth path. Our business enabling environment is improving. Our macro fundamentals are benign and are progressing in the correct direction. Our political stability is assured. Our business sector is highly resilient and focussed. In that scenario, even though the ocean may be rough at times, and we encounter head winds, cyclones, and even a few disgruntled sharks, the course that we have chartered for our economic ship will proceed to its desired destination at a reasonable pace. In that background, I am confident that in the longer term, the baro meter readings will properly reflect the improved weather conditions!





Recent investigations by the financial authorities' world over have revealed that money laundering activities conducted by various elements that have resulted in action being taken to combat this increasing criminal activity.

Much of the problem lies in a large informal economy and significant cash-based transactions which make Sri Lanka vulnerable to money laundering. In this connection, Central Bank of Sri Lanka has proactively taken action in recommending all the Sri Lankan banks to implementing anti-money laundering (AML) solutions.

Money laundering is traditionally conducted in three stages: placement, layering and integration. While placement is the physical depositing of cash, layering describes the process of transactions; some simple, others more complex and often involving transactions within and between banks and across borders, which seek to confuse the trail back to the original cash transaction. Integration is the process by which the money is brought back into use by the criminal into the regular economy, often by the purchase of assets such as real estate, automobiles and works of art, which appear legitimate purchases.

To combat this problem, Informatics (Private) Limited, with it's nearly three-decade long history of providing the best in IT products and services in Sri Lanka, have built key partnerships with global ICT vendors, such as InfrasoftTech, a global leader in anti-money laundering (AML) systems, having provided solutions to over 100 financial services institutions, to launch its proprietary anti-money laundering (AML) software in Sri Lanka.

Commenting on this venture, Group Chief Executive Officer of Informatics Mr. Thusha Weerasooriya stated: "With regard to banks and similar financial services institutions, the most common process utilised to detect such activity is through technology-based anti-money laundering systems , that are specifically designed to not only flag suspicious transactions but document any and all such activity to aid authorities in their quest to prevent such crime".

Detailing the benefits of this software he pointed out that it provides financial services institutions including banks , the ability to "analyse customer data and detect suspicious transactions. In this instance, customer data is filtered and classified according to the level of suspicion and inspected for anomalies. Such anomalies would include any sudden and substantial increase in funds or a large withdrawal".

In addition, the solution's focus lies not merely in reporting but in building surveillance on the business processes and transactions that help to enhance safety for banks and their customers. Over time, AML solution data will also help in improving the CRM strategy of banks and hence provide enhanced personalised services.

Significantly, Informatics and their partner InfrasoftTech recently implemented AML software at Union Bank, marking it the first implementation of such software in Sri Lanka.

The IT Manager at Union Bank pointed out that this Software "will benefit the bank greatly through the monitoring and elimination of instances of AML. We are justifiably proud that we are the first bank in Sri Lanka to implement this software in keeping with the latest regulations".

As a forerunner in the field of ICT in Sri Lanka, the Informatics Group will continue to leverage on its global partner base and infuse best practices and knowhow to the local ICT industry, while its benchmark ISO 9001:2008 and SEI CMMI – Level 3 certification ensures the highest quality and standards.

Other solutions and services provided by Informatics include IT consulting and e-commerce solutions, offshore development, project management and services, turnkey solutions and solutions development and systems integration among others.





Royal College, Colombo and Prince of Wales College, Moratuwa qualified for the finals of the Under -19 Colombo South Zonal Basketball Tournament as they won the respective semi-final matches played at Reid Avenue yesterday.

Royal College defeated Asian International School, Colombo 61-40 in the first semi-final, while Cambrians did well to beat St. Peter's College, Bambalapitiya 58-45 in their semi-final.

Royal who featured a strong out-fit for this tournament beat Asian International after getting a 25-19 lead at the half way mark. Kasun Uyangoda was impressive scoring 18 points for Royal, while his team-mate Ashen Menaka chipped in with 14 points.

For the losers, Bevan Samuel top scored with 12 points.

Meanwhile, Gihan Sarinda (21) and Tharidu Sankalpa (14) top scored for the Cambrians to secure their final berth. For Peterites Hiran Rodrigo top scored with 19 points.





ABU DHABI, United Arab Emirates (AP) — Pakistan's interim coach Mohsin Khan said Sunday his team could replace England at the top of the test rankings.

Pakistan is the No. 5-ranked test team, but two consecutive wins against England to clinch their three-match series have given the coach confidence to predict a bright future.

"This team has the capacity to become world's best team," Khan said. "Our target should be to gradually come in the top three in both tests and one-day and then go to world No. 1."

Khan was the chief selector when he was appointed coach after Waqar Younis stepped down due to personal reasons in October.

The Pakistan Cricket Board has been looking for a full-time head coach since and Khan has applied.

However, Australian Dav Whatmore is being tipped to replace Khan after the series against England ends in late February. Whatmore also visited Pakistan earlier this month and held talks with PCB officials in Lahore.

But Khan has made a strong case to challenge Whatmore for the post as Pakistan defeated Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and England in the past four months.

"What Mohsin Khan is today is because of Pakistan and Pakistan cricket," he said. "My services are always there for my country but I don't want anybody to take me for granted.

"When we won against Bangladesh and Sri Lanka people said they were weaker teams, now we have won against the best.

"The kind of firepower they exuded is unseen in the (Pakistan) team in the past and we won a lost match on Saturday."

The coach also said that Pakistan has to play well when it competes against other top-ranked sides like Australia, South Africa and archrival India in their own backyards.

"We have to perform when we play in other parts of the world so that means we have to prove a lot," he said.

Khan faced a lot of criticism back home when he was the chief selector and brought in young batsmen Asad Shafiq and Azhar Ali into the senior team.

The two youngsters did not disappoint in the second test against England when they combined in a match-winning 88-run stand on Saturday that earned Pakistan a lead of 144 runs before the team's spinners bundled England out for 72 — its lowest ever total against Pakistan.

"We thought these boys have talent and I never got worried," Khan said.

"I believe that the boy who comes on merit should play (because) now we want to have a back-up of players for the future."

Khan also gave credit to captain Misbah-ul-Haq, who has not lost a series since being appointed as captain after the infamous spot-fixing scandal of 2010.

"He is a very good captain and I have a wonderful rapport with him," Khan said. "We make gameplan and take inputs from seniors and juniors.

"Maybe a junior player has something good and wise to tell us. He respects my experience and as coach it is my duty to support him as he is to make the team fight."

The last test begins in Dubai on Feb. 3 before both teams embark on a four ODI series and three Twenty20 games.





Despite the Power and Energy Ministry claiming that there weren't any issues with the 52 trade unions, of the Ceylon Electricity Board, on the present salary structure as circulars have been already sent on the 25 per cent hike, a section of the unions yesterday warned of a strike if the salaries of the members of its Board of management were increased by over 25 per cent.

The Ministry's Media Secretary, Dhanushka Ramanayake told The Island yesterday that they were not worried about trade union action, as everything was under control.

However, the union headed by the JVP backed Lanka Viduli Sevaka Sanagamya said that the CEB employees would strike if salaries of the management level were increased by 60 to 70 per cent.

LVSS Convener, Ranjan Jayalal said that the 25 per cent salary hike granted by the government to the CEB employees was applicable to the management as well.

Last week, the government granted a 25 per cent salary increase to CEB, Ceylon petroleum Corporation (CPC) and National Water Supply and Drainage Board (NWSDB) employees.

Jayalal said that the trade unions had agreed to the 25 per cent salary hike since it was granted to all employees at the three institutions.

According to Jayalal, the CEB employees would commence an agitation campaign demanding a 45 per cent salary hike once again if the government decides to approve a higher salary increment for the managerial levels.

Out of nearly 16,000 employees at the CEB, about 1,200 are in senior management positions, he said.





In celebrating the 3rd anniversary of the revolutionary Upahara Package, which extended unparalleled benefits to State Sector employees, the National Mobile Services Provider, Sri Lanka Telecom Mobitel conducted a raffle draw, 'UpaharayataUpaharayak' in which 3 lucky customers were each offered a house worth Rs. 4 million.The winners received their prizes at the Mobitel Flagship Store at a ceremony held on Monday the 30th of January.

Sri Lankan cricket legend and Mobitel brand ambassador, Muttiah Muralidaran was present as Chief Guest to greet the winners and ceremonially hand over the prizes, amidst the CEO of Mobitel Lalith De Silva and other senior personnel of Mobitel. The lucky Mobitel Upahara customers who won the prizes were U. H. M. Jayakodi from Alawwe, M. F. M. Shereef from Maradana and K. L. S. N. Ariyawansha from Pannipitiya. The raffle draw to select the lucky winners was conducted in the presence of officials from the Western Province Tax Department on 12th of January 2012.

At a time when the country is geared for economic and social development , Mobitel forges ahead to lead Sri Lanka towards an info-com and knowledge rich society through its service offerings via many industry firsts in the field of mobile telecommunications. As a truly Sri Lankan Brand, the National Mobile Service Provider is privileged to endorse and support the Government in its effort to reward and appreciate those who serve the country. The Upahara reward scheme is one such initiative to honour the commitment made by State Sector employees.

Mobitel introduced the Upahara package in 2008 in recognition of valuable contribution made by the State Sector employees for the country's development. Mobitel's state of the art mobile network coupled with extensive coverage has enabled customers across the country to connect and enjoy the benefits of the Upahara package.

Being a fully owned subsidiary of Sri Lanka Telecom and bearing title as the National Mobile Telecom Service Provider, Mobitel strives to provide its customers with the best products and services by continuously ensuring their satisfaction. Mobitel believes in constant innovation and customer centricity in developing the country's mobile telecom sector.





*Increases stake in Pakistan, Vietnam freight operations

January 30, 2012, 8:45 pm

Expolanka Holdings PLC sustained its consolidated NPAT for the 09 months ended 31 December 2011 at Rs. 903 million, with a consolidated NPBT at Rs. 1,186 million. Net Profit attributable to the Equity Holders reached Rs. 768 million for the 09 months period ending 31 December 2011, the company said in a statement, not divulging its performance against the previous year as is the usual practice.

The Transportation Sector of the Group managed to sustain its year-to-date bottom-line which contributed a PBT of Rs. 1,150 million and PAT of Rs. 932 million. The other three key sectors - International Trading, Manufacturing and Strategic Investments - contributed a PBT of Rs. 193 million and PAT of Rs. 159 million to the Group.

Group CEO of Expolanka Holdings PLC, Hanif Yusoof said, "Despite the dip in the freight industry as a whole due to an overall volume reduction, the core freight sector relatively sustained its position where NPAT dropped by 6 percent. This was achieved due to an enriched brand value and our focus on margin management".

The significant negativities faced by the GSA sector in relation to global economic issues during the last quarter continued to increase. The declining rates, along with less cargo movements, impacted the sector to a great extent.

With the country's tourist arrivals reaching new heights during the calendar year 2011, Expolanka re-positioned its travel and leisure arm to cater to the evolving needs of the tourist industry resulting in a rapid growth in the customer base.

The set-back encountered in the Tea Sector during last quarter due to the global market conditions is now improving. This sector is now getting back on track. The penetration made in value-added products during the last two quarter proved to be a sensible move.

In the Manufacturing Sector, the quarter continued to remain stable with both revenue levels and NPAT increasing over previous year. The Company is encouraged by the continued growth in Neptune Recyclers which has turned around its operations. It has also developed the right infrastructure for this operation to expand and strengthen the manufacturing sector.

"The Strategic Investment Sector grew by 125 percent in terms of NPAT growth during the quarter primarily fuelled by the performances of APIIT, our tertiary education institute which has been able to consolidate its operations by offering a wider range of programs. There is a great response from the market for the increased degree programs which we introduced in the recent times. Expansion is also focused in the diversity of degree programs to cater to the diverse segment of the student community who intend to specialize in different fields of education. The management is confident that we can sustain these growth levels where this sector is expected to provide sustainable contribution to the group's bottom-line", Yusoof added.

The period under review was highlighted by key events both at group level and individual company level.

"We made additional investments and have increased our stake to 51 percent in both Expo Freight Pakistan and also in Expo Freight Vietnam. During the quarter we acquired controlling stake in Norfolk Foods, a strategic move to penetrate into the food industry. This industry is rapidly growing and we are confident that this acquisition would add distinct advantage to our existing product portfolio mix. This quarter we received international recognition for Expolanka's ongoing efforts in CSR and social marketing at the World Brand Congress.", Yusoof said.

"We continue to pursue developing the right strategies and using the right resources to ensure that we consistently create value to our stakeholders. Our committed workforce, along with the supportive Board, has ensured that we are in the right direction to achieve our long term goals", Yusoof concluded.





Sri Lanka commemorates 600th year to mark the visits of the Great Chinese Naval Admiral 'Zheng He' with his shipping fleet to the country and 100 years of the finding of Trilingual Inscription erected during his third visit.

'Zheng He' visited Sri Lanka 6 times out of his 7 voyages to around 30 countries from 1405 to 1433, during Chinese Ming Dynasty. Zheng He's visits have strengthened China Sri Lanka bilateral relations immensely in that era, and were revived by the subsequent leaders in Sri Lanka. (HG)





Sri Lanka has been named among the top five destinations in Kuoni's annual poll of where UK customers want to spend their holidays, Thorne Gazette (TG) said on its website. Sri Lanka also retained the number one destination for weddings, a TG news story said quoting the annual report.

The TG story said: "Where holidaymakers want to go is just part of leading tour operator Kuoni's annual Travel Trends Report. The 20-page report also tracks hot travel trends and the top destinations for weddings and honeymoons, for families, for solo travellers, for pampering spa holidays, for the most exciting adventures and authentic experiences as well as the best destinations for those that care about the planet.

The report also highlights changes in holiday behaviour and includes trends in holiday booking behaviour, such as the importance of social media in driving holiday choices.

The top five holiday destinations for 2012 are the Maldives, Thailand, Sri Lanka, The United Arab Emirates and the USA.

Kuoni predicts that South Africa will witness huge growth over the next 12 months, helped by the exposure from the football World Cup last year and the weakened currency against sterling.

The only mid-haul destination in the 2012 Top Ten selling destinations is the United Arab Emirates, which kept its fourth position from last year. Abu Dhabi and Ras Al Khaimah account for the popularity of this region.

For specific types of holidays, the Maldives retained its top slot for honeymoon destinations and also topped the wish list for digital natives, better known as Generation X, Y and Z.

Sri Lanka retained number one destination for weddings, Kuramathi Island Resort in the Maldives kept the top slot for family destinations, as did Thailand for solo holidays.

The winner of the Top 10 adventure holiday is the 11-day tour of culture-rich Sri Lanka on the Ceylon Tour, while those looking for the best Planet Friendly Holiday voted for Governors Main Camp in the wildlife safari heaven of Kenya.

The Report's 2012 figures are based on holiday bookings made as at December 2011.

Kuoni has been undertaking the annual Travel Trends Report since 1980."





The final selections for the Under-18 National Youth Boys team to take part in the FIBA Middle Asian Championship will be held today from 4.00 pm onwards at Royal College, Colombo. For further information contact Group Captain Harsha Fernando on 0777005391.





Sri Lanka's former skipper Kumar Sangakkara heads the batting, in the ICC rankings published by the ICC on Sunday, followed by South Africa's Jacques Kallis and Australia captain, Michael Clarke.

Pakistan spinners Saeed Ajmal and Abdur Rehman were listed among the top 10 Test bowlers in rankings published by the International Cricket Council on Sunday.

The duo played a key role in their team's remarkable 72-run win against England in the second test on Saturday.

According to the ICC, two Pakistan spinners have not made the top 10 in 23 years.

The last time was in Sept. 1988 when the list included legspinner Abdul Qadir and leftarm spinner Iqbal Qasim.

Offspinner Ajmal is listed second behind South Africa fast bowler Dale Steyn while leftarmer Rehman improved five places after his 6-25 on Saturday and is listed at No. 9. England's James Anderson is listed third.

The pair has taken the bulk of the 40 England wickets to fall in the two test matches, with Ajmal taking 17 and Rehman 12.

Ajmal and Rehman will be looking to raise their totals when they take on England in the third test at Dubai, where Pakistan won the first test by 10 wickets.

Pakistan captain Misbah-ul-Haq also broke into the top 10 batsmen's rankings for the first time in his career at No. 8.





January 31st marks the 68th birth anniversary of Dr. Neelan Tiruchelvam the towering public intellectual and best-known fighter for human rights who was assassinated by a suicide bomber of the LTTE on July 29, 1999. To celebrate his birth anniversary this year, the Neelan Tiruchelvam Trust has invited one of India's most inspired and dedicated Kathakali dancer and theatre artiste Maya Krishna Rao who will grace the Colombo stage on Thursday, February 2nd at the British School Auditorium at 7:00 p.m. The solo performance revolves around Ravana –a mythological character from the Ramayana.





'Crocodile' is now not only an International brand with a strong local presence but rather a fashion statement in Sri Lanka. The Crocodilian fashion is now dangerously infectious and in keeping abreast with consumer requirement Crocodile Lanka has launched their consumer friendly web site which will bring all crocodile products to their door steps at the convenience of a few clicks.

The Crocodile Website and the Face Book page would be helpful to customers in enjoying a new shopping experience and receive updates on the men's fashion trends. With a choice of special offers the selection process would be most exciting for the busy but fashion conscious Sri Lankan.

Commenting on above Daniel Jeyasundrakumar, Assistant Brand Manager, Crocodile Lanka Ltd stated "This is another example of Crocodile menswear moving forward and giving greater choice and convenience to the customer. Many of our clients use the social network not only for friendship, but also for sharing information and views on latest trends, fads and new product developments, so the new site coincides with the structuring of our face book page as well, were we presently interact with about 8,000 fans.

Crocodile believes this new initiative will help them to keep their fashion conscious consumers up to date of latest fashion trends and also importantly be interactive with their consumer.





"Sancharaka Udawa" : Tourism SMEs get equal opportunities on a level playing field - Nanayakkara

"Angampora" promoted as a form entertainment to tourists

January 30, 2012, 12:00 pm

By Harischandra Gunaratna

President of the Sri Lanka Association of Inbound Tour Operators (SLITO) Nilmin Nanayakkara yesterday declared on the eve of the "Sancharaka Udawa2012" (Meet Mart) that the event was a platform which provide equal opportunities to all players in the travel and hospitality industry as well as those who were indirectly involved with tourism such as craftsmen, artistes etc and noted that SLAITO was quite happy that the Small and Medium Enterprises in Tourism (SMET) were doing extremely well after experiencing a lean period.

"The tropical island has so much to offer to the world with diversity and to harness that all that there is a need to establish a common meeting ground where all players could meet in one place and promote their products however small or big they are," Nanayakkara said.

Speaking to "The Island Financial Review", he noted that this year 180 stalls had been sold against the 105 last year and key people in the industry would be visiting the event and it provided an opportunity for participants to meet them and seek their expertise where their businesses are concerned, he said.

Those who participated at last year's "Sancharaka Udawa" said that it helped them gain more businesses via new contacts on a level playing field while it opened avenues for them to exchange ideas and also to step on to joint ventures , he Pointed out.

"Thirty percent of the participants are repeaters and they are of the opinion that participation in such an event such as "Sancharaka Udawa" provides immense opportunities to stay ahead in the industry," The SLAITO President said.

The event will be held at the Hotel Ceylon Continental commencing at 11.00 a.m today and the finale of the event will be an exhibition of "Angampora" fighting, a form of ancient Sri Lankan martial arts centuries old at 7.30 p.m.

"We want to introduce Angampora as a form of entertainment to tourists and plans are afoot to introduce Angampora to the itineraries of many major tourists events in the country in the future," he added.

History records that Angampora in the country was banned by the British in 1818 during the Uva-Wellassa uprising since they couldn't control the rioters and they burnt the training centres where the martial art was taught.

The Portugese also faced a lot of resistance in Mulleriyawa, fighting the native forces who were experts in Angampora, in 1562 during the reign of King Seetahawaka Rajasinghe, records said.

Following the completion of the "Sancharaka Udawa" proper a carnival atmosphere would prevail in the open air at the country's first five star hotel which is now known as Ceylon Continental with entertainment, food and drink stalls and music, the President said adding that the event was open to the public.





Sri Lanka is placed with Hong Kong, Singapore, Kyrgyzstan and Pakistan in Group 'A' of the Fed Cup women's international tennis tournament organised by the ITF in Shenzhen Luohu Tennis Centre in China.













MUSCAT There is ample opportunity to boost commercial ties between the Sultanate and Sri Lanka from the trade volume of $102 in 2010 to $500 million in the next three years, according to Asoka Girihagama, Ambassador of Sri Lanka to Oman, on Sunday.

In an interview to Oman Tribune, Girihagama said there were untapped aven-ues of bilateral commercial cooperation which the two countries would not ignore.

He said 80 per cent of Omani exports to Sri Lanka was oil and gas and 80 per cent of imports from Sri Lanka was tea. Sri Lanka also exports machinery items, he said.

Girihagama said Sri Lanka was keen to diversify bilateral cooperation as the two countries have potential to be major strategic trade partners. He said it needs some innovative ideas.

The Sri Lankan Embassy stall at Muscat Festival showcases the potential of bilateral cooperation and avenues for bilateral trade, he said.

Sri Lanka is getting ready for its national day celebrations on February 4, which would also be held on the Sri Lankan Embassy premises.

He said as his country has ushered in an era of peace after experiencing tough times for several years, there is an opportunity to boost economic and trade ties.

Oman and Sri Lanka could cooperate to ensure food safety in the two countries, he said. He highlighted investment opportunities in food processing and packaging and fisheries sectors.

Oman-Sultanate tourism was growing, he said. In 2010, around 1,500 Omanis visited Sri Lanka. "We need to raise awareness among people across the world including Oman about the attractions in Sri Lanka," he said.

He said the Sri Lankan tourism department was distributing information brochures in Arabic and that in Sri Lanka it was easy to get interpreters and tourist guides who speak Arabic and help the Arab tourists.

He said Sri Lanka has its own Ayurvedic system of medicine that attracts people from the West. "Medical tourism in Sri Lanka is cheaper than anywhere in South Asia," he said. (Oman Tribune)





The sumptuous Sunday afternoon buffet spread at the Cinnamon Grand's 'Dragon Brunch' offers you a chance to savour the flavours of the exotic Orient, dish by dish.

"Dragon Brunch focuses on popular Asian cuisines since Sri Lankans love Asian food and what better way than a Sunday to enjoy a feast?" says Cinnamon Grand's Executive Chef Chaminda Liyanage.

According to him, all the popular dishes from the region are on the buffet. Every week we also introduce one or two new items based on customer feedback and potential preferences since we believe in giving value for money and living up to our promise of indulgence," he says.

Appetizers as with mains and desserts are littered with choices combining the fresh and authentic flavours of the orient, that can satiate the appetite of even the most ardent food lover or the gourmand who prefers just to savor, the distinctive dishes of this exotic region. Children too can enjoy the many dishes with plenty of choices in meat, seafood and vegetables.

For those who prefer a healthier option to begin the meal, the colorful salad bar offers plenty of choice. Everything from the popular Thai beef salad, Wing bean salad, Raw papaya salad to the more exotic Cabbage Kimchi, Shrimp salad with peanut dressing and Acar nenas (pineapple salad) to Kerabu ayam (chicken salad) are meant to tease the taste buds.

You can be adventurous too by trying out unfamiliar dishes and have fun figuring out some of their tongue twisting names such as Sambol Sotong (Spicy squid cooked in belchan and dried chilli), Beef rendang (Malay spiced coconut beef), Ayam Cincane (Chicken with green tomatoes), Asam babi goring (fried tamarind pork balls), Ikan Bumbu Acar (Spicy fried sardines), Sayr camput (stir fried seasonal vegetables with ginger and garlic), and Pacri Nenas (spiced pineapple stew) among many others. Seafood lovers, meat lovers and vegetarians alike have an equal chance at absolute indulgence with the wide variety of dishes in each option.





The right of a media institution to raise pubic awareness about the violation of laws enforced to prevent ragging in educational institutions and the right to decide the news value of a particular news published by it were recently upheld by the High Court of the Western Province exercising Civil Appellate Jurisdiction in Colombo (Civil Appellate Court).

The Order was delivered by Justice L.T.B. Dehideniya with Mrs. H.C.J. Madawala J agreeing in granting Leave to Appeal in two Petitions filed by The Leader Publications Pvt Ltd. and Fredrica Jansz, Chief Editor of The Sunday Leader. The Petitioners filed these Applications for Leave to Appeal against an Enjoining Order issued by the District Court of Colombo in a defamation action filed by Nalin Ladduwahetty, Attorney-at-Law.

The respective Enjoining Order issued by the District Court in favour of Ladduwahetty was also suspended by the Civil Appellate Court. Ladduwahetty filed the initial defamation action in the District Court of Colombo on alleged defamation caused to him by several articles published in The Sunday Leader over an incident of assault and ragging among prefects at St. Thomas' College, Mt. Lavinia.

In the Order granting Leave to Appeal, the Court stated:

"the learned District Judge has issued the enjoining order preventing future defamations, upon the determination that there is a history of defamation against the Plaintiff. The court has not yet come to a conclusion as to whether the publications in issue are defamatory. The right of freedom of expression of the 2nd Defendant- Petitioner ensured by the Constitution and the right of a media institution to raise pubic awareness about the violation of laws enforced to prevent ragging in educational institutions have to be taken into consideration in considering the said statements. Moreover the news value of a particular news has to be decided by the institution which publishes that news. Therefore, it cannot be ex facie determined that the malice of the Defendants is established by the fact that the news relating to the Plaintiff was published in the front page of the said newspaper. Thus although there is a serious issue to be tried and determined in this case, it is not established that there are ex facie acceptable facts as to whether this case will be determined in favour of the Plaintiff. In the circumstances, we suspend this enjoining order until this case is concluded."

The Court came to this decision after taking into consideration the arguments put forward, both in the District Court and in the Civil Appellate Court, by Nigel Hatch P.C. who appeared on behalf of Jansz. Accordingly the Court determined that leave should be granted to the Petitioners against the Enjoining Order in the District Court.

Geoffrey Alagaratnam P.C. appeared for the Sunday Leader and Nigel Hatch P.C. appeared for Jansz. Romesh De Silva P.C. appeared for the Respondent Ladduwahetty.





Following a strong business consolidation last year, with the backing of the largest state banks in the country being its major share holders, the management has appointed MTI Consulting to conduct a strategic audit based strategic directional plan in 2012. MTI Consulting has a wealth of extensive experience in restructuring programmes with other financial companies both globally and locally, with assignments in organizations such as Bank of Ceylon, Union Bank, HNB Assurance and NSB to their credit.

The Finance Company PLC which endured its most challenging period of business in 2008 / 2009 was able to weather stormy waters and emerge unbowed. As per industry experts, being the first company to do so in Sri Lanka by returning to profitability in the 1st quarter of the financial year in 2011, shows the grit and stability of the company under the direction of the new management.

With public trust and opinion for the 71 year old pioneering financial company now at its peak, the re structuring comes in the wake of the company gearing up to meet the new market challenges with a clear vision of emerging as industry leaders yet again.

MTI Consulting has time and again provided firms with practical and workable solutions through strategic consulting, specializing in corporate finance, market research and human resources management. Given The Finance Company's current business model and the need to sustain the present growth momentum, the company's Director / CEO, Mr. Kamal Yatawara remarked that these tried and tested processes would be applied to achieve the company's overall objectives.

The Finance Company PLC, which is a household name with over 7 decades of unmatched experience in the non banking finance sector, now serves the Sri Lankan public through a network of 60 branches spread island-wide.





Hard work, perseverance and passion for excellence are the prime ingredients for a success story, according to twenty-four year old Dushan Kahandagamage, the recipient of the CIM Top Student Worldwide Award for the Professional Postgraduate Diploma in Marketing,June 2011 examinations of the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) UK.

Asked why he chose CIM,Dushansaid, "I chose CIM as my preferred choice of qualification mainly because it is a globally recognized and accepted qualification. CIM is a diverse qualification, which concentrates on other areas in addition to marketing, such as finance, corporate strategy, leadership and planning, and risk management.When it comes to the learning experience, the CIM qualification has armed me with all the necessary knowledge and competencies I require to perform confidently and proficiently in my career."





Palliyaguru said that SLCERT had received a large number of complaints regarding illegal acts carried out by persons using the Face Book daily. More than 100 complaints had been received in January and more than 1,800 last year (2011).

Though there were other social networks such as My Space and Twitter, Face Book was the most popular among Sri Lankans. The majority of complaints were regarding fake Face Book accounts and made by persons using others' information without their knowledge. Those fake accounts, once created, were later used to carry out various abusive activities, Palliyaguru noted.

According to internetworldstats.com. currently more than 1,182,720 Sri Lankans are active members of face book. It represents a 5.6 percent penetration level in the country's more than 21 million estimated population. More than 1,776,900 Sri Lankans use internet which represents 8.3 percent of penetration.

The Senior Information Security Engineer said that SLCERT had deactivated most of the fake Face Book accounts after clarifying the identification of those persons. "If the victims decide to take legal action, we direct them to the CID." In addition to that he said other complaints were regarding hacking passwords. Some tend to hack others' passwords and try to extort money.

In Sri Lanka, if a Face Book account is hacked, it is a violation of the Computer Crimes Act of 2006. Creating fake accounts and hacking are clear violations of the Face Book usage terms. According to US jurisdiction, one cannot demand to take any content out of a website such as Face Book without a court order.





Compared with any international cricketer today, Nuwan Pradeep, 25, is an exception. A fast bowler from Vidyaloka MV, Katana, he is one who rose to Test level in a dramatic fashion, debuting for Sri Lanka last Oct. against Pakistan in Abu Dhabi. A Lasith Malinga type 'slinger' and later a franchised player for IPL's Royal Challengers Bangalore, Aththachchi Nuwan Pradeep Roshan Fernando had only played tennis ball cricket till 2007 –till he was 20— when he won an island-wide fast bowling talent search contest and three years later, in 2010, he was called for Sri Lanka Test team in a series against India.

Now a member of the Sri Lanka 'A' team which is playing five unofficial one-dayers against England Lions (England 'A'), Pradeep is plagued with an array of injuries and looked unlikely to take part in the remainder of the series as he could bowl just 10 deliveries at the nets at Dambulla last Saturday, Dec. 28 before the 2nd match.

"I'll be able to play probably in two, three days. The injuries are almost over now," said Pradeep on Sunday.

His unorthodox bowling action has resulted in causing frequent injuries and he was sent back home abruptly from Sri Lanka Test tours, firstly in England last May and then in South Africa last Dec. due to serious knee and hamstring injuries.

"I suffered four injuries may be because I began playing in this level quite lately. The hamstring injury in my right leg is a new one I have developed."

The 3rd one-dayer against England Lions is scheduled for Tuesday in Kurunegala.

"I hope to return to play in the current series," he pledges. He, though, bowled with a more or less orthodox action at the nets on Saturday. But he ascertains there is no change to his bowling action, purely for the purpose of managing his persistent injuries.





Chennai, Jan 30: Tamil Nadu Governor K. Rosaiah today reiterated the State government's resolve to regain Katchatheevu, an island ceded to Sri Lanka through an accord, to restore the lost rights of the fishermen.

Delivering his maiden address to the State Assembly, Dr Rosaiah said the government was deeply concerned about the continuing attacks and harassment of fishermen of the State by the Sri Lankan Navy. ''Despite our protests, such incidents are being repeated'', he said, and urged the Centre to take up the issue with Sri Lanka in strong terms.

Observing that all efforts would be taken to protect the traditional fishing rights of Tamil Nadu fishermen in the Palk Bay area and ensure their safety and security, the Governor said the government would take all steps to regain Katchatheevu and restore the lost right of the fishermen. (Chennaionline)





The answer to a question often depends on how you ask it, and Alex Salmond is doing all he can to get a "yes". Scotland's separatist First Minister wants independence for his country, which has been part of the United Kingdom for the past 300 years, and he has just revealed the question he wants to ask in the referendum he has promised: "Do you agree that Scotland should be an independent country?"

It seems to be a simple question, but it's psychologically loaded. A more neutral question would offer the Scottish voters two choices: "Scotland should become independent" or "Scotland should remain in the United Kingdom." Tick one box. But if he did that, most of the voters would surely vote for the status quo.

People don't usually choose to leap into the unknown unless they are brimming with self-confidence or living in intolerable misery. Neither applies to the Scots, so Salmond twists the question a bit: "Do you agree (with all the rest of us, implicitly, or at least with all sensible people) that Scotland should be an independent country?" People also don't like to contradict the (implicit) majority, so putting it that way might win a few thousand extra "yes" votes.

In his heart, Salmond would probably prefer a more inflammatory question like "Do you want to seize Scotland's independence back from the Sassenach (Saxon, i.e English) oppressors, or would you rather live as slaves?" That would delight the tartan super-patriots who are his core constituency, but it would alienate the moderate middle whose support he must gain to win the vote.

A more promising tack would be the one that the Quebec separatists in Canada took in their 1995 referendum: "Do you agree to the independence of Scotland if we promise that it won't hurt a bit: the English will still be our friends, we'll be richer than we are now, and we can even go on using the pound. In fact, you'll hardly notice the difference, except that you'll feel much better about yourself." (I'm paraphrasing a bit here.)

The question in Quebec's 1995 referendum was actually: "Do you agree that Quebec should become sovereign after having made a formal offer to Canada for a new economic and political partnership within the scope of the bill respecting the future of Quebec and of the agreement signed on June 12, 1995?"

"Do you agree?" again: everybody knows that trick. "Sovereign", a positive, vague word, not "independent", an explicit word meaning irreversible change. (Salmond has missed a trick there.) And "the agreement signed on June 12, 1995", which the average ill-informed voter would assume is some reassuring deal with the federal government, when actually it was just a joint statement by Quebec political parties.

The 1995 referendum in Quebec came close to yielding a majority for "yes". Canadian Prime Minister Jean Chretien responded by passing a "Clarity Act," which stated that the question in any future referendum on secession must be accepted as clear by the federal House of Commons; that any question not referring solely to secession would be considered unclear; and that a simple majority of 50 percent of the votes plus one would not be enough to mandate such a large and irreversible change.

The Canadian "Clarity Act" has subsequently become the international standard for secession referendums. It is regularly cited in Spain, for example, as the standard that a Basque or Catalan referendum on independence would have to meet, and in Belgium with regard to Flemish or Walloon secession. It has similarly limited Alex Salmond's freedom to shape the Scottish referendum question, which is why it is relatively clear.

Salmond still has two cards up his sleeve. One is a proposal to let 16- and 17-year-olds vote in the referendum, on the calculation that the younger they are, the likelier they will be to support radical change. (The normal voting age in the UK is 18.)

He is also still talking about adding a further option in the referendum for "maximum devolution" of power to the Scottish government, a halfway house that would leave the United Kingdom government responsible for little except defence and foreign affairs. But he will probably end up trading that for an agreement with London to postpone the referendum until late in 2014.

He needs to postpone it because Scottish independence would lose by a majority of almost two-to-one if the referendum were held today. But if Salmond has more than two years to pick quarrels with London that will incense Scottish nationalists, he might be able to change that.

Just two months before the independence referendum in Quebec, only one-third of Quebecers planned to vote "yes". On the day, almost half did (49.5 percent). Even more than in normal politics, questions of national independence tend to be decided on emotional grounds – and once the question is on the table, it is there forever.

Quebec has held two referendums on independence, in 1980 and 1995. The voters rejected it both times, but the separatists are still waiting for a third opportunity. (English-speakers in Quebec call it the "neverendum".) Must get a winner one day.





Sri Jayewardenapura General Hospital Director Dr. S. A. K. Gamage said yesterday the conflict between its Chairman Nimal Bandara and himself had been settled amicably. Although UNP parliamentarian Dr. Jayalath Jayawardana had called for the appointment of a competent person as its Chairman, he had no problem in working with a non-medical person.

Dr. Gamage denied Dr. Jayawardena's statement alleging inefficient management at the hospital. The hospital was being managed efficiently, but there were some lapses in the maintenance and field maintenance services. The hospital was obtaining finances to construct new buildings and pay its employees from the Treasury, he told The Island.

The hospital had been attending to about 600 patients a day. There were 30 consultants. But only seven consultants were doing private practice after 4.00 p.m. Public relations activities were not so effective. Under the welfare measures every employee was getting three meals for Rs. 75 a month. Sri Jayawardenapura hospital was a semi-government institution, the hospital Director said.

He added that the hospital had not been charging monies from the clergy. But some elements were beginning to tarnish the image of the hospital. Some critics were sarcastic about the activities of the hospital as it had paved the way for efficient management. "There is nothing hidden. Everything is done with total transparency and accountability.

When contacted UNP parliamentarian Dr. Jayalath Jayawardena said that Sri Jayawardenapura hospital had all the facilities in which even post-graduate doctors could receive proper training. It was established 27 years ago. The management was so poor that administrative aspects were beginning to deteriorate.

"It is my duty as a medical doctor to pinpoint administrative lapses in the hospital. As a premier hospital in the country, it has to provide a professional health service, but many loopholes can be found, "Dr. Jayawardena stressed.





Sri Lanka has donated US$ 50,000 to the Philippine Government to assist that country's disaster relief operations following the disastrous flooding caused by the Typhoon Washi last month.

Sri Lanka's Ambassador to the Philippines Nawalage Bennet Cooray handed over the donation of US$ 50,000 to the Indonesian Foreign Minister, Albert F. Del Rosario at a simple ceremony held at the Department of Foreign Affairs in Manila January 25, 2012.

President Mahinda Rajapaksa has instructed the government officials to urgently transfer the funds for the recovery effort, Sri Lanka Embassy in Manila said in a statement.

"Having witnessed the vast destruction caused to human lives and properties by the recent floods in the Cagayan de Oro and Iligan Cities in Mindanao Province of the Philippines, President Mahinda Rajapaksa immediately conveyed his condolences to his counterpart, President Benigno S. Aqunio III and the government and people of that county on 21st December, 2011," the statement said.

According to the Philippine government, the death toll from the disaster stands at 1,080 and some 338,000 people have been affected and more than 10,000 homes damaged.(iewy)





I was very happy to experience the drive on Sri Lanka's first Expressway from Kottawa to Galle in December 2011. Even though there are only two lanes in each direction of the dual carriageway it is a job well done. Congratulations to the Govt. and the people of Sri Lanka.

Being a Civil Engineer who worked on Motorway contracts, and with Highway Authorities in U.K., wish to share my views and give my suggestions to road users on safe driving.

On Highways vehicles all drive in one direction on each carriageway, North bound carriageway or the south bound carriageway. Vehicles should not drive in the opposite direction to the flow of traffic at any time. The Highway makes it possible for a large number of vehicles to travel from one city to another at high speed without any obstruction from cross traffic or turning traffic.

In Europe and other parts of the world many accidents occur due to sudden change in weather conditions like fog, snow, icy roads, sandstorms etc. In Sri Lanka accidents can occur due to carelessness, speeding, or due to lack of understanding the risks involved. If the drivers are sensible, law abiding and considerate to other road users, they will all be able to enjoy the benefits of this great investment.

A driver who causes an accident may risk his own life, while causing injury to many others or even causing the loss of many lives. On the highway an accident at high speed often ends up with serious damage to the vehicles and harm the occupants of the vehicles The accidents are often fatal accidents. The drivers must keep in mind that , if they cause the death of another person due to negligence, or ignorance, it will be very hard to get rid of the guilty conscience.

Knowing that there are always the non sensible, and unwise persons in the world, the laws must be enforced strictly to deter the wrong doers and to protect the majority of road users. With modern technology – monitoring the drivers on the highway is not a problem. Most important the state must have the will to enforce the law strictly to all who break the law.

With the Southern Highway, a journey that took three hours from Colombo to Galle can be completed in about an hour. In addition to the quicker journey there will be savings in fuel cost and wear and tear of vehicles. A journey at a uniform speed of 100 km/hr will be less tiring for the driver and the occupants of the vehicle. This we all must appreciate. A service bay along the highway will be useful to the public where they can have toilet facilities/Restaurant/ Petrol Station etc.

Some advise for the drivers on the Highway

1. Always be careful when changing lanes. Get in to the required lane well in advance. When leaving the highway get to the left lane before approaching the exit point. It helps to plan the journey and note the exit number you intend to leave the highway before you start journey. If you miss your exit point and pass, you are not allowed to reverse on a highway. This can cause a serious accident.

2. Stay on the left lane always, so that any vehicle that wish to overtake you may do so on the fast lane. We must allow those who wish to overtake us, and never obstruct other drivers.

3. On the highway 100km/hr means, the vehicle is moving 1.7km every minute, or 28m every second. At this speed it takes some time to bring the vehicle to a stop. Always keep a safe distance from the vehicle in front of you. Do not get too close.

4. It is best to carry in vehicle, a warning triangle (red Plastic reflective) to be used when there is a breakdown. It is kept at a distance, behind the vehicle that has broken down to warn other motor vehicles. This triangle acts as an advanced warning to others to prevent them hitting you from behind.

5. When ever vehicle breaks down on the road switch on the hazard warning lights then All four yellow lights will flash as a warning to others. If possible, move the car to the left side of the road, out of the way from vehicles coming from behind. Open the rear boot and keep open for others to see. If you have a red warning triangle, place it a few metres behind your car, on the road, to warn other vehicles in advance. Driver and passengers of the car must stay away from vehicle that has broken down, till help arrives. Never stay near the vehicle. It can be dangerous.

6. It is important to have good tyres when driving at high speed on a highway. Worn out tyres, or old tyres can burst. This can cause a serious accident, when the driver looses control of the vehicle at high speed. It is always better to check tyre pressure before any long journey. Ideally the day before, or at the start of the journey when tyres are not hot. Always have the right tyre pressure as recommended by the vehicle manufacturers. A tyre must have good tread at least across two thirds of the width of the tyre. Then only the tyre will have the required grip on the road to prevent skidding etc.

If all road users take some steps towards safe driving, many precious human lives will be saved in the future.





Trinity College were in command of their match against Kalutara Vidyalaya as they posted 358 for eight wickets declared after spinner Janishka Premasinghe rattled the home team with a seven wicket haul in their Under-19 tournament encounter which commenced at Kalutara yesterday.

Left-arm spinner Pramud Hettiwatta picked up six wickets for 15 runs for Nalanda College to skittle out Thurstan College for 105 runs on day one of their match at Panagoda yesterday. Nalanda were 214 for four wickets at stumps.

Only 50 overs were possible on day one of the Inter School Under-19 match between Richmond College and D.S. Senanayake College, Colombo at Mahinda College Ground, Galle yesterday as wet ground conditions delayed (started at 1.30 pm) the start of the match. Deciding to bat first Richmond were 175 for five wickets at close.





The National Chamber of Commerce of Sri Lanka (NCCSL) signed a MOU with the Maldives National Chamber of Commerce and Industries recently. The MOU was signed by Thilak Godamanna, Deputy President of National Chamber of Commerce of Sri Lanka and Ahmed Adeeb Abdul Gafoor, President of Maldives National Chamber of Commerce and Industries(MNCCI) on behalf of the respective organizations.

"The MOU paves the way for both chambers to work for mutual benefit of their members. It covers cooperation in promoting commercial, trade and investments between the two countries, exchanging trade information and assisting each other in conducting business promotion events in either country," the NCCSL said in a statement.

Witness for the signing of the MOU was Dr Hussein Niyaz, Deputy High Commissioner who has just assumed duties in the Maldives High Commission in Colombo.





The Colombo bourse sustained its mild rally on Monday with both indices closing in positive territory led by interest in banking stocks, despite a slump driven by profit taking, brokers said.

The All Share Price Index closed 0.53 percent higher on 5,755.56 points, gaining 30.12 points on Monday. The index opened the week at nearly 100 points higher from last Friday's closing. The Milanka Price Index of more liquid stocks closed 1.11 percent higher, gaining 54.4 points to close at 4,976.21 points.

Turnover amounted to Rs. 1.4 billion on a volume of nearly 46 million shares changing hands during the day. Around 100 counters closed in positive territory against 101 counters that closed in the red.

"The market managed to sustain the positive run from last week as the bourse started on an aggressive note although losing momentum half way through due to profit taking witnessed across the board.

The banking sector continued its dominance with NDB and Commercial Bank attracting both high net worth and institutional interest. Despite the persistent interest in fundamentally sound counters, heavy activity was seen in several retail favourite stocks,"NDB Stockbrokers said.

NDB Bank's share price edged up by Rs 3.70 (3.00%) to close at Rs 127.00. Both Commercial Bank Voting and Non Voting gained by 1.34% and 6.38% respectively to close at Rs 106.00 and Rs 90.00.

NDB featured in a crossing involving a parcel of 2.84 million shares at Rs. 112.50 each, generating a turnover Rs. 347.7 million. A parcel of 944 thousand Union Bank shares changed hands at Rs. 21.5 each.

Despite the positive gains made over the past few days, the Colombo Stock Exchange was still down 5.25 percent year-to-date on Monday.





