Although it is only natural to see a baby feeding well, many a time it is quite a disconcerting sight, especially for the mother, to see a baby bringing up some of the milk that he or she has taken in. A lot of babies will bring up small amounts of milk along with air when they are burped. Occasionally a few babies spit up so much that it may seem like an entire feed. This phenomenon is generally not of concern as long as the baby is wetting six or more diapers a day and gaining weight. It is not necessary to imagine that the baby is not getting sufficient nourishment as the growth parameters are satisfactory. It is important to realise that some babies are more prone than others for this phenomenon of spitting up of some of the milk.

There are a few things one could do to either prevent or minimise this occurrence. It is useful to hold the baby in an upright position while being fed. Handling the baby gently after a feeding may help and bouncing the baby around or tapping him or her too roughly on the back to bring up a burp, can bring up milk, too. It is useful to feed the baby without delay. If the baby has cried a long time before a feeding, he or she may have swallowed some air. With air in the stomach at the beginning of a feeding, the baby is more likely to spit up. It may also result from over-feeding and very hungry babies do tend to gulp down milk with significant amounts of air as well. These are rather minor, easily addressable problems in the baby.

Although spitting up is usually not a serious problem, your healthcare provider or doctor should be told about the predicament. There are some things that can be done to reduce spitting up. Sometimes other tests might be necessary. Be prepared to report to your health care provider any definite change or decrease in bowel movements or urination, and any signs of discomfort or pain in the baby. These are useful clues that suggest that further interventions are perhaps warranted. If at any time, the brought up material contains even a trace of blood, it is imperative that further evaluations are undertaken.

Spitting up is different from vomiting. Vomiting typically happens sometime after feeding and generally is distressing to the baby. The milk is mixed with digestive juices and has an odd sour smell. It may be that the baby just took some time to bring up air and with it some milk is vomited. But most unfortunately, it could also be a sign of an illness. If the baby seems well and is feeding normally, it is only necessary to watch him or her for any other signs of an illness. If there is fever or loose motions with the vomiting, medical attentions is necessary, especially in the very young babies. Many of the diarrhoeal illnesses of babies start with vomiting. In such cases the vomiting subsides gradually only to be replaced by loose motions. It is important to realise that young babies can and do get dehydrated very quickly and that dehydration can be quite a problem for the baby.

At whatever age, vomitus that contains blood is definitely abnormal. Even a little bit of streaking of blood in the contents seen in vomiting, should be taken very seriously and the baby should be evaluated. In some cases it may be due to a trivial reason such as minor damage to the lining of the gullet and the stomach by repeated or forceful vomiting. In other cases it may have more serious implications. A condition such as hiatus hernia, which is a situation where the baby is born with a portion of the junction of the gullet to the stomach and the upper part of the stomach being displaced to the chest, may present with blood in the vomitus. In very seriously ill newborn babies, various metabolic disturbances, defective clotting and certain types of bleeding disorders, lead to vomiting of blood. Breathing problems, lung infections, general spreading of a bug right throughout the body known as septicaemia are all causes that could lead to such problems. The crux of the matter is that any newborn baby who vomits some blood-stained stuff needs to be rapidly evaluated. However, sometimes the baby brings up blood that he or she may have swallowed during breast feeding from damaged or cracked nipples of the mother. This is a harmless situation and would be spotted by an alert physician. In such cases, the baby remains entirely normal.

Very early, persistent or severe vomiting in the first 48 hours after birth is generally abnormal and is due to some cause. If the vomited material contains bile which is yellowish green, it is very suggestive of an organic obstruction to the upper part of the small intestine. This warrants rapid evaluation and further investigation to try and sort out the cause. This problem needs urgent surgical evaluation as the treatment is surgical and has to be undertaken without any further delay. Such children do very well after surgery, from the gastrointestinal point of view, but occasionally associated problems give some trouble. One important association of upper gastrointestinal obstruction is with Down syndrome which is an inherited chromosomal abnormality. There is no cure for Down syndrome and this underlying condition does cause problems although the baby has recovered well from the gastrointestinal obstruction.

A curious type of vomiting is that which is associated with an obstruction to the outlet of the stomach. This is a problem that the baby is born with and is known as pyloric stenosis. The peculiarity is that it does not present at birth but symptoms develop gradually around 4 to 6 weeks of age. The characteristic feature of this condition is what is known as "projectile vomiting". The vomitus comes out with considerable pressure and is projected to a distance from the mouth. As it develops almost every feed is followed within minutes by vomiting and the nutrition of the baby suffers greatly. The baby gets terribly hungry and feeds well only to bring up almost the entire feed. They get dehydrated and keep on losing weight. Once fully developed, the baby is not able to retain anything. A doctor will be able to feel a mass or a lump in the abdomen and the stomach is seen as a distended area in the upper part of the abdomen. Ultrasound examination generally clinches the diagnosis. The treatment is surgical and the operation itself is a relatively simple procedure. The babies recover completely and thrive well thereafter.

Vomiting may also be a symptom of many types of lower intestinal obstructions. However, it is important to point out that in these conditions, vomiting is rather a late feature. The obstruction may be partial or complete. Some babies are born with maldevelopment of the rectum and anus where the patency is obliterated. This condition is known as imperforate anus. In such a baby it is not possible for the baby to open the bowels normally and have a motion. This state leads to the abdomen getting bloated or distended gradually. Later on vomiting occurs. In addition to organic problems, functional disturbances where some babies are born with disturbances in the nerve components of some segments of the large intestine also tend to present with a similar picture. This problem is known as Hirschsprung Disease. All these conditions need surgery and some of them need a two stage surgical procedure with an interval of time in-between the operations. A newborn baby is expected to open his or her bowels at least once by the end of the first 24 hours and if this is delayed one should look for a cause.

Vomiting could also be a rather non-specific manifestation of diseases that are not directly connected to the gastrointestinal tract. Thus many types of infections and especially those affecting the brain do present with vomiting as a subsidiary symptom. Raised pressure within the brain, even when due to non-infective causes could lead to intractable vomiting. Careful evaluation is sometimes necessary to sort out these problems and in many cases several tests may be necessary. Some of these conditions like specific infections of the brain are rather serious problems and need to be diagnosed and treated promptly and imperiously.

Persistent vomiting of any degree tends to hamper the well-being of the baby. There is considerable interference with nutrition. Significant losses of body fluids in the vomitus could also lead to dehydration and electrolyte or chemical disturbances in the blood. The stomach contents are rich in acid and other chemicals and their losses lead to profound changes in the body of the baby. When such complications are present, it is sometimes necessary to correct these abnormalities with intravenous fluids prior to dealing with the primary problem. Skilled nursing and competent medical attention is necessary when more sinister causes lead to vomiting in this age group. g

The writer appreciates feed-back from readers. Please email him at bjcp@sltnet.lk or write to him at





