An online newspaper called the Huffington Post says the New York Times needs to "think out of the box" to stay afloat. The Economic Times of India says a wooden sports car has been produced by "out of the box thinking". The next person to say "out of the box" in front of me will end up IN a box.

It's a mystery of modern life. Just at the time that "out of the box" becomes the top catchphrase for organizations, bosses put us into cubicles to work. How can we think out of the box when we're in boxes all day?

I asked a furniture designer who replied that cubicles replaced open desks to give office workers more privacy.

Rubbish. The opposite is true. Cubicles destroy the ambient noise that used to fill offices, so now we work in silence and are forced to eavesdrop on our colleagues' personal calls.

I once sat opposite a guy whose love-life was so complicated that I did no work. I spent all my time working on a flow chart of his affairs. It was like a wiring chart for a jumbo jet, only more complex.

I currently have one irritating workmate who sneaks to the entrance of my cubicle and reads out loud whatever he can see on my screen over my shoulder.

"Working on a novel?" he said yesterday.

"No," I replied. "I am emailing the hit man I hired to get rid of you, telling him to hurry up."

He didn't get the joke. This led to me decide that perhaps it shouldn't be a joke. What with the economic downturn, even contract killers are probably now within the range of affordability for ordinary people. Hey, every cloud DOES have a silver lining.

This murderous meditation on cubicle life was inspired by a letter from a reader named Wanda Cheng who shared with me her list, probably partly stolen from the Internet, which she calls:

The Ten Worst Things About Working in Cubicles

1. The feeling that I am in an experiment and thousands of unseen people are watching me sleep at my desk.

2. The lack of roof beams, which is a clear design fault. Where can I hang my noose?

3. The fabric walls, which offer no protection from gunfire.

4. The fact that the walls are too close together for a hammock to hang correctly.

5. The fact that there is only one socket but I have eight things to plug in.

6. The fact that prison cells are not only bigger, but have beds.

7. The fact that I can never open email attachments from my boyfriend without checking behind me that no one is passing.

8. The fact that when visitors tour the office, we feel like interesting zoo animals to stare at.

9. The fact that when visitors don't tour the office, we feel like boring zoo animals no one wants to stare at.

10. There's no door I can shut to stop people interrupting my work, okay, my sleep.

And of course, Wanda, the worst thing of all is that there is no door to slam when you finally quit and walk out.

I left my last job quietly. And I took the wiring diagram with me, heh-heh.





