I am sure that the Organisation or the Institution which awarded the 'Honourary' Doctorate to Mervin Silva must be by now really regretting having awarded a Doctorate to an ignominious politician! The proposers and the Board, that decided to confer the Doctorate on him, if they are still sane and credible, whoever they are, must now take action to retract the 'Honourary Doctorate' from him. Otherwise it is a disgrace to their Institution to have on record that they have conferred an Honourary Doctorate on this cardboard Dutugemunu! What a joke it would be if some journalist were to write names such as Dr. Arthur C. Clarke, Dr. Lester James Peries, Dr. Pandit Amaradeva, side by side with the 'Dr.' Mervin Silva, in recording the achievements that the other great people have delivered to the world or to Sri-Lankan Society? It is interesting to know the achievements and the honourary contributions, made by Mervin, which qualified him for a Doctorate! Could the Institution give a positive response? What services has he extended to the Sri-Lankan Society to carry on with this 'Title', other than his repeated thuggish behaviour? Or could some learned person enlighten us otherwise. I am sure it is time for people like Dr. Clarke, Dr. Peries and Dr. Amaradeva to voluntarily give up their Doctorates because these Doctorates have now become a symbol of indiscipline, idiocy and insanity.

May I also draw the attention of readers that except for two Ministers in the Rajapaksa Cabinet, none of the others, including the vociferous Prime Minister, have so far dared to speak anything against Mervin's behaviour. Perhaps, it is the principle of collective responsibility! Are they scared of him or do they condone his behaviour? Sri-Lankan voters who voted for the PA have a right to ask this question. While it is heartening to note that the JHU, as a PA partner, has condemned Mervin's behaviour and the critical analysis given by the JVP spokesman and other respected politicians, where are the other constituent parties of PA? It is not surprising that UNP had condemned Mervin's action for they are there to condemn and oppose all activities of the PA, good or bad, including disapproval of war on terror. Quite rightly they are making political capital out of what was indeed a golden opportunity given to them on a platter by an idiotic member of the Government. Surely, no right thinking person can say it is a plot by the UNP unless Mervin himself was acting as a double agent! The most important news to look for in the future would be the decision to be taken by the President on this utterly disgraceful scenario created by one of the PA's henchman supported by noted thugs of the underworld. Anyway, congratulations to the entire staff of the Jathika Rupawahini for the appropriate response shown, which I think could have been improved!





