By having a centralised agency to procure armaments: Lanka could have saved colossal amount of money– Lanka Logistics official.

Had Sri Lanka established an organisation similar to Lanka Logistics and Technologies Ltd (LLTL) at least 20 years ago, the country could have saved a colossal amount of money by thwarting waste, corruption and irregularities in procurement of armaments, a senior official said.

Chamindra De Silva, management consultant to the LLTL said that since its establishment a few years ago, the country had made massive savings while procuring arms, ammunition and equipment needed to fight the LTTE. LLTL is the brainchild of Defence Secretary Gotabhaya Rajapaksa.

The statement comes in the wake of controversy of alleged irregularities in the procurement by the Army at the behest of former Army Chief General Sarath Fonseka, who has denied any wrongdoing on his part.

De Silva, who had been involved in preparing LLTL's corporate strategic plan said due to absence of such an organization it had cost our nation colossal amounts of money, judging by the enormous amount of savings that LLTL has yielded for our nation during its short period of existence.

He expressed shock and surprise that all previous administrations had conveniently overlooked such a vital requirement of a centralized State-run body to facilitate procurement. He said that several developed and developing countries had created such organizations to handle procurement of major items.

The major benefits of a State sponsored procurement agency were from the maintenance of external secrecy and internal transparency (confidentiality in the procurement process resulted in complete secrecy of the capabilities of the assets being used by the defence forces which of course is an integral component of strategic advantage), distinct cost advantages due to direct sourcing from principals, introduction of new sources of supply, assisting research & development activities and winning confidence of foreign Governments in procurement of strategic weapons.

De Silva emphasised that the creation of LLTL was of national interest and had nothing to do with politics. "Hence I believe all dutiful, conscientious, patriotic citizens, irrespective of their political affiliations must hail creation of this unique enterprise that has yielded our nation invaluable savings, particularly, in the form of scarce foreign exchange. I am of the opinion that this institution should not be subject to political affiliation because it is the duty of the Government to make this institution a strong national asset that will grow from strength to strength. I am also aware that this institution is staffed with high calibre qualified professionals who have worked tirelessly and unswervingly during the height of hostilities and in fact has played a key role in our forces emerging victorious in the recently concluded conflict by providing sufficiently streamlined and coordinated logistical support."

"Despite its laudable achievements during the war, its officials admirably led by senior professionals, this institution continuously strives to improve, and that was the reason behind why they wanted to embark on a forward planning strategic exercise that will further pave way to yield continuous and increasing benefits to the betterment of our nation with enormous economic and social benefits."





