Ministers from Asian labour countries of origin and Gulf destination countries, together with Malaysia and Singapore, concluded the two-day Abu Dhabi Dialogue by adopting a forward-looking declaration that paves the way for the better management of temporary contractual labour mobility.

"Contractual labour mobility can and should generate value and wealth for all those who hold a stake in its facilitation," says UAE Minister of Labour Dr. Ali Abdullah Al Kaabi. "The long term success of labour mobility, therefore, hinges on making certain that the interest of all key stakeholders are well served."

The Declaration defines a new collaborative approach to better address temporary labour mobility and maximize its benefits for the development of both countries of origin and destination.

Key action-oriented partnerships between countries of origin and destination were identified, which include the need for participating countries to share information on labour market trends and patterns of remittances and build the ability of states to effectively match the demand and supply of temporary contractual labour through the entire migratory cycle.

"In the absence of cooperation, patterns of irregular movement take root, and traffickers quickly take advantage of the situation," says IOM Director General Brunson McKinley. "This is to the detriment of all of the workers themselves, but also of great cost to governments and the society they govern." He added IOM will assist countries of origin and destination to develop practical initiatives to support the Abu Dhabi Declaration.

The declaration recognizes the joint responsibility of countries of origin and destination to work to prevent illegal recruitment practices and to promote transparent recruitment and employment policies to ensure the wellbeing, welfare and protection of temporary labour workers.

Minister Ali Abdullah Al Kaabi announced the next ministerial consultation on overseas employment and contractual labour for countries of origin and destination in Asia will be held in 2010.





