Knowledge-Based Industries (KBIs) play a dominant role in economic development of both developed and developing countries. In particular, they have been significant in improving Gross Domestic Product (GDP), creation of employment opportunities, diversifying and enhancing the competitiveness of the industrial sector and regional development. Therefore, many countries attempt to foster KBIs via the attraction of knowledge-based foreign direct investment (FDI.

This paper highlights the recent developments of knowledge-based FDI in Sri Lanka and discusses the key advantages available in Sri Lanka in attracting them. The scope of KBIs is very wide since it covers a variety of industries. Therefore, particular attempt is made here to limit the scope of this paper to Information Communication Technology (ICT) as a knowledge-based industry. It concludes briefing the key policy areas that should be focused in policy formulation.

Since the early 1990s, the role of knowledge has been significant in creating and sustaining industrial competitiveness and economic development. Therefore, many countries have attempted to transform their economies towards knowledge-based economies. Knowledge-based economy concept has been introduced to describe economies in which organizations and people acquire, create, disseminate, and use knowledge more effectively for greater economic and social development. Already some advanced countries including South East Asian nations such as Singapore, South Korea and Taiwan have entered into an era of 'knowledge-based economies' via embarking on knowledge-based investments.

Knowledge-Based Industries (KBIs) are considered the backbone of the 'knowledge-based economy'. Knowledge-based industries are those, which relatively utilize intensive inputs such as technology and human capital. Industries engaged in activities such as pharmaceuticals, aerospace, health, biotechnology, telecommunications, information technology (IT), consumer electronics and medical equipments are considered as KBIs. They play a dominant role in generating economic growth. For example, knowledge-based industries contribute over 50% of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in OECD (Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development) countries. In 2000, Taiwan and South Korea generated 34.2% and 36.7% of GDP respectively from KBIs. KBIs have also been significant in creating competitiveness and diversify the industrial sector of many countries. Therefore, policy makers of many governments have focused their particular attention to foster KBIs via the attraction of knowledge-based foreign direct investment (FDI) which has become one of the major strategies adopted to achieve knowledge-based economy status.

The Sri Lankan government has also paid particular attention towards the development of KBIs and a variety of policy initiatives have been introduced and launched in this regard. Ten Year Horizon Development Framework (2006-2016) (Ten-Year Vision) issued in November 2006 envisages that Sri Lanka to be a knowledge and service based economy. However, one of the major challenges that policy implementing agencies encounter is that how Sri Lanka can develop and attract knowledge-based investments in a more competitive global business environment? This paper highlights the recent developments of knowledge-based FDI in Sri Lanka and key advantageous available to attracting them. It concludes briefing the key policy areas that should be focused in policy formulation.

As mentioned above, the scope of KBIs is very wide since it covers a variety of industries. Therefore, particular attempt is made here to limit the scope of this paper to Information Communication Technology (ICT) as a knowledge-based industry. 'Information and communication technology' refers to a diverse but converging set of activities, which share a common concern with the creation, storage, processing and transmission of information in a digital form. For the purpose of this paper, inward FDI related to telecommunication, software development, IT enabled services such as Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) and Knowledge Process Outsourcing (KPO) and other IT related service oriented business ventures are considered as knowledge-based FDI. The terminologies of knowledge based FDI and ICT are used interchangeably in this article.





