Presidential candidate Sarath Fonseka said he would give priority to solving the youth unemployment problem if he wins this month's polls.

He was addressing an election rally at the Avissawella UC grounds.

He said they would be given a monthly dole of Rs. 2,000 until they got jobs. He said all should unite as one people if the country was to develop. That was why several parties with clean records had mustered their forces to help him win the Presidential poll, he said.

Fonseka said he had made a great sacrifice to establish peace in this country.

"The army was dedicated. We lost about 25,000 men. Another 65,000 became disabled. Lt. Lalith Jayasinghe from this area, an able officer who served under him, was killed in action. We should show our gratitude to his services," he said.

"In 2008 I gave two assurances. One was that I will not leave room for my successor to fight the war. I did it. Second was that I will not allow Prabakaran to make his Mahaveer speech again. I did it too. By destroying the LTTE, we brought peace," Fonseka said.

"The war victory cannot be claimed by only one family. During the war the forces sacrificed a lot. They and their families should be looked after. Those displaced families in the north and east will be supported by introducing a welfare scheme to lead a normal life. Nothing is being done today due to a family rule and spine-less Ministers," he said.

The Presidential candidate also said challenges faced by the public and their economic problems must be solved.

Democracy should be established, he pointed out.

Law and order should be maintained. The existing law and order situation had driven the country to march towards a lawless direction, he claimed.

He said the industrial sector was unstableunder this government.

In order to boost the industrial sector there should be a reduction of taxes. The rubber industry in this area should be developed, he said. "We will find new markets for our products. Health and education facilities will be developed for the benefit of our future generation. At present it is impossible for a family to build a house. A poor man cannot afford to buy a plot of land. We will remove all such obstacles. The right to live will be ensured to very one," he said.





