India has long been regarded as eminently suitable to occupy a permanent chair at the UN's "high table" – the Security Council (SC). This is in acknowledgement of its burgeoning big power status. Now fresh endorsement of India's suitability for this position comes from Britain; considered a key Western ally of the US, which has also considered it opportune to bolster ties with India.

The championing of India for UNSC membership was a high point of British Premier Gordon Brown's recent visit to India. Agreeing with Brown's assessment of India's eligibility for a chair at the key UN organ, Indian Premier Manmohan Singh was quoted saying: "I think that there is a broad agreement that international institutions, if they are to be credible, cannot ignore countries like India and China." He said both were giving a "major stimulus" to the world economy.

Implicit in such pronouncements is the recognition that the current global balance of political and economic forces is inadequately represented in one of the UN's highest decision-making bodies. Certainly, regional economic powers, such as India and Brazil, need to be on the SC. The same goes for Germany - a number one economic and military power of the West.

It has been quite some time since sections of the world community came to believe that the UNSC reflects very inaccurately the true economic, political and military global balance of forces. In other words, equity does not prevail in this UN body which plays so crucial a role in the fostering and maintenance of world peace and stability. Power continues to reside mainly in the so-called Big Five, namely: the US, Russia, France, Britain and China.

Last week it was mentioned in this column that Sino-Indian relations had entered an epochal phase on account of the increasingly cordial interaction between these states which are now considered increasingly vibrant number one economic powerhouses of the world. Over the next few years, for instance, India's growth rate is predicted to be in the 8.0-8.5 percent region. It is now clichetic to pronounce that India enjoys tremendous global supremacy in the field of Information Technology. She is also a frontrunner in industrial and commercial enterprise in the Asiatic region. That India is justified in staking a claim for permanent UNSC membership, therefore, should be a matter beyond dispute.

Still, India's case is yet to be taken-up strongly by the West. Britain's recent championing of India's suitability could be considered a notable development in this context, considering the seeming reluctance and silence of the West to take-up India's cause.

Britain's championing of India could be one of the earliest indications that Britain under Premier Gordon Brown is not particularly keen on being seen as an exceptionally staunch ally of the US. It is evidence that Britain would be charting an increasingly independent course on major foreign policy issues, such as Iraq.

What also needs to be noted is that although a considerable number of EU member states are continuing to enjoy membership of NAT0, the EU as a collectivity is keen on pursuing an independent course in the foreign policy sphere, thus distinguishing its identity from that of the US. One of the reasons for this policy orientation is the burgeoning economic clout of the EU. Member countries of the EU, for instance, maintain a high economic presence in vibrant growth centres such as China, seemingly at the cost of the US.

At this juncture it would be in the interest of world stability for budding global powers, with a striking nonaligned policy legacy, such as India, to occupy a permanent member seat in the UNSC on account of a reported restiveness on the part of NATO to increasingly project its military power on the world stage. A recent NATO report, for example, called on the organisation to be in readiness to "launch pre-emptive nuclear attacks to ward off the use of weapons of mass destruction" by enemies. The report also said that NATO's first-strike use of nuclear weapons was an "indispensable instrument" in this situation.

What is equally significant from the point of view of particularly the world's powerless and poor is the stipulation in the NATO report that military action be initiated without "ratification by the UN" in instances where "immediate action is needed to protect large numbers of human beings."

NATO concern for humanity would be deeply appreciated by the rest of the world community but it is bound to be alarmed by NATO's plans to sideline the UN in its military initiatives. The non-Western world in particular is bound to be wiser now after the Iran - nuclear fiasco which nearly brought the world to the threshold of a Western-led military conflagration in the Gulf region. After all, we now know for certain that Iran is nowhere near building a nuclear arms capability.

Nevertheless, NATO plans are now all too clear. It would prefer to have a weak UN system over which it could ride roughshod. And if the UN system is further weakened, NATO's will would prevail unchallenged over the world system.

These are some of the reasons why the UNSC needs to be strengthened by including in it regional powers, such as, India, which would help in rectifying the glaring power imbalance in this apex body of the UN system.





