The Trade Union Confederation (TUC) said there had been no irregularities reported from places where counting was taking place. General Secretary for the Confederation Saman Ratnapriya said yesterday (27) that there were only a few incidents reported from the North and East on Tuesday (26) the day voting took place.

He said the government workers deployed in those areas on election duty had reported that there had been delays in the arrival of buses to collect ballot boxes and the question of the validity of identity cards issued to voters. But they had been able to iron out the problem before it became an issue, Ratnapriya said.

There were approximately over 200,000 government officials on election duty.

Lal Wijenayake of the 'Lawyers For Democracy, 'Coordinator for the Legal Aid Programme offered to government workers on election duty, said, he had received no complaints so far regarding any intimidation, harassment or victimisation. It's best to see the overall situation at the end of the Presidential poll, he said.

Meanwhile the Centre for Monitoring Free and Fair Elections (MENIKE) said the voter turn out had been over seventy percent. Despite the outcome of the polls in the North and East they could be happy that voters had exercised their democratic right. Chairman for MENIKE, H. K. Chandrasiri said he had received information that there had been posters in the North and East of the country forbidding people to vote for any Southern candidate. "We believe however that the pact with the TNA also resulted the scale tilting towards the opposition candidate (Ret. General) Sarath Fonseka," he opined.

MENIKE had been instrumental in having the day after polling declared a holiday. "It asked internal migrant workers go home to vote. There are three million migrant workers who do not get the opportunity to vote".

Chandrasiri vowed that MENIKE would push to afford the same opportunity to migrant workers abroad. USA, Maldives and several other countries had introduced methods for their non residential citizens to vote. Sri Lanka should also find a way to give her migrant workers a chance to use their vote, he stated.





