Kurunegala: "The future generations of this country should live in a secure society where there is peace which in turn will boost development resulting greater prosperity and happiness," said Minister for Highways and Roads Development T. B. Ekanayaka at a ceremony held to open a new building for the Road Development Authority in Kurunegala recently.

The minister said, the government ordered the security forces to wipe out LTTE terrorism after the 'terrorist outfit' provoked the government by closing the sluice gates of the Maavil-aaru canal by force.

Before taking that decision, the government carefully studied the past behaviour of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam which shunned nearly all proposals presented by the government to bring about a peaceful settlement of the 'conflict' in the North and the East, Minister Ekanayaka said.

If the government delayed the humanitarian military operations against the LTTE, it (the LTTE) could have dealt another deadly blow to the healthy existence of the country, he added.

The Minister said, Sri Lankan Tamil terrorists had now learnt a good lesson and learnt what happens when an individual or a group (of individuals) sought for solutions to a problem through terrorism, ridiculing democracy and tolerance exercised by those who like peace.

'Those who have tried to foster the growth of terrorist activities in Sri Lanka too have to learn a lesson - the truth cannot be defeated forever although it can be defeated temporarily', he said.

"Patriotic members of the public are rallying round the government because it was able to crush the terrorist outfit fighting for a separate country thereby teaching a lesson to those who are pulling the legs of the leaders of the government to prevent the downfall of the LTTE," Ekanayaka said.

Referring to the Provincial Council polls in the Central and the North Western Provinces, he said,the election day falls on St. Valentine's Day (14 February) and that was a good day for voting for the politicians who had done good for the public.





