The Island-SportsHe arrived at Melwood in his black Range Rover Sport at 10.05am to be greeted by a few fans who turned out despite the freezing temperatures.

Liverpool manager Rafael Benitez has given Gerrard his full support and insisted he would carry on captaining the Premier League leaders after speaking with the player about the events which led to his arrest in the early hours of Monday after an incident at a Southport pub.

"Steven is our captain and a key player for us, but more than this, I know him as a nice person," said Benitez.

"I sat down with him this morning and had a very good talk with him about the situation and I was also able to speak at length with our club lawyer.

"Steven explained to me what had happened and I told him he has my full support and backing, along with everyone else at the football club.

"He's trained with the other lads this morning after a couple of days off for the squad and is keen now to focus solely on his football.

"We've worked very hard to get into the position we're in going through to the new year and all of us are determined to keep that progress going.

"We'll do whatever we can to support Steven in the weeks ahead, but we're now concentrating on our preparation for the FA Cup game at Preston this weekend."

Gerrard, 28, faces a maximum five-year jail term if convicted after being accused of assaulting businessman and part-time DJ Marcus McGee, 34, who was injured during a fight at the Lounge Inn. Gerrard, a father of two, was celebrating his team's win over Newcastle when trouble began.

He has so far remained silent about the controversy and his wife, Alex Curran, said last night that they would not be commenting.

Gerrard will attend North Sefton Magistrates' Court in Southport on Jan 23, but he has been given the full backing of the Anfield hierarchy, with Benitez the latest to give a public expression of his support.

In addition, the Professional Footballers' Association yesterday offered their help to Gerrard.

"We have a watching brief on this and have offered any help we can," said Gordon Taylor, the PFA chief executive.

"I was concerned when I heard about the case as I have known Steven Gerrard a long time.

''I don't know the full details, but as the players' union we would want to be supportive of him."



