Referring to the death of the white baby turtle at the Dehiwela National Zoological Gardens yesterday a few days after four of them were brought there, an official said the zoo was simply not geared to house turtles as there till those were introduced.

He told The Island that the Zoo management, particularly its Director should have told the Court that they didn't have resources and expertise to house turtles. "The health condition of the other white baby turtle is also too weak," he added.

The Island learns the four turtles were housed at the Min Medura –Zoo's Aquarium- and they were fed by those handling ornamental fish which he termed as under unhygienic conditions. It is also said that two baby turtles were kept in small basins.

Of the four white turtles, handed over to the Dehiwala zoo from the infamous Kosgoda turtle hatchery one baby died due to a suspected illness.

On January 16, the Balapitiya Magistrate ordered the owner of the Kosgoda turtle hatchery to handover four albino turtles he owned to the Dehiwala zoo.

Accordingly two small albino turtles and two big turtles were handed over to the zoo while one of the small turtles died last evening, the spokesman said.





Low of Attraction: Buddhism and faith based religions

January 21, 2014, 12:00 pm

By Mahendra De Silva

Recently I had an opportunity to read some inspirational books on Law of Attraction. The Law of Attraction theory became popular in the world especially after Napoleon Hill in 1937 published his book "Think and grow rich." Then there was "The Law of Attraction" by Ester & Gerry Hicks. Based on these books Rhonda Byres has produced a book and a movie, 'Secret, which gained widespread attention in the media. Wayne Dyer, an inspirational speaker who is spreading the same message has written many books on LA, most popular being "The Power of Intention" and 'Change Your Thoughts - Change Your Life: Living the Wisdom of the Tao'.

What is Law of Attraction?

Law of Attraction (LA) works by 'believing in something so strongly that it manifests itself into reality' In summary LA is simply Ask, Believe and Receive.That is whatever the mind can conceive and believe mind can achieve, regardless of how many times you have failed in the past. We have heard the saying "Like attracts like" and "Birds of feather flock together". The Law of Attraction is the extension of same concept further. This belief is based upon the idea that people and their thoughts are both made from pure energy and the belief that like energy attracts like energy. One example used by a proponent of the law of attraction is that if a person opens an envelope expecting to see a bill, then the law of attraction would 'confirm' those thoughts and the envelope contains a bill. A person who expects a cheque might, under the same law, find a cheque instead of a bill.

First step to accomplish is to have a strong desire to achieve your goal which should be clear in your mind. Your desire should be sincere and genuine. It should always in your heart and in your memory until you achieve it. Esther in her book, 'Law of Attraction' also suggests that it would be more effective, if we start implanting the request in mind after a brief breathing meditation session. What happens after some time in meditation is that mind will be in a calm and tranquil stage, which is the best environment to plant the idea in the inner consciousness.

The second step is to believe that you would receive it. You should avoid thinking all the obstacles you would encounter to achieve it. You need not think how you are going to get it. Simply believe that you deserve to get it. Napoleon Hill also suggests that you should write it clearly what you want and also why you deserve it in the opposite page and to memorise it daily.

Last part is the most important and success will greatly depend on this. If LA is to work, your eternal vibrations must match with your request. For example if you want something but keep on thinking of lack of it, or negative feelings the chances of success would also be reduced. Having positive feelings – feeling that your task is already achieved –you should be smart enough to generate the feeling or sensation you obtain when you get your desire, even before you receive it. That would make your vibrations match with your desire.

According to the theory, everything including your five senses is in vibrations. Emotions are a very sophisticated sensor of vibration. In order for LA to work, emotions should be in alignment with your desire. Suspicions, anger sadness create resistance which will block the achievement though source energy.

Most of the Inspirational books suggest that feeling of gratitude is important to be successful in any endeavor. This includes thinking of all the people who has helped you, wishing them good will and also to spread loving kindness to everyone including the people you do not like. This creates positive energy within the self.

LA allows you to take over your mind without allowing emotions to take over the mind. The reason why people suffer most of the time is because they have own internal barriers they have imposed on themselves and formpatterns of negative behavior and prejudices from the time they were born. In order to get what you want you have to break the barriers and your vibrations should match with the vibrations of what you are asking. It makes no sense to worry about past or things you have no control over because there's nothing you can do about them. The activity of worrying keeps you immobilise. What we think determines what happens to us, so if we want to change our lives, we need to stretch our minds

Compatibility of Law of Attraction with Buddhism

For a Buddhist ultimate purpose of life is liberation through purification of mind. For that it is essential that we should practise detachment instead of attachment. However, this could be practised fully by giving up everything worldly and becoming a monk. Ordinary people still expect pleasure. They have wants and struggle every day to find the resources to satisfy the ever increasing wants. It is a suffering indeed. But, LA is a powerful tool that can be used along with the knowledge of Buddhism to reduce anxiety and have happiness in our lives.

The Dhammapada says, "All that we are is the result of what we have thought.' It goes on to explain the misery that results from negative thoughts as well as the joy that follows positive thoughts. The Dhammapada also states that a "trained mind brings health and happiness" Throughout Buddhism power of mind is emphasised. Accordingly one can achieve good Karma by having wholesome thoughts or positive thoughts all the time.

Loving Kindness meditation in Buddhism if practised continuously with devotion would definitely bring marvelous result in changing the character positively. Loving Kindness meditation starts with wishing kindness and compassion to own self. Then you would spread the net of loving kindness to all, including people you do not like gradually. Auto suggestions in,LA could be regarded as an extension of the same concept of loving kindness on own self. In Buddhism thoughts would create Karma. (Chethanaham Bikkawe Kamman Vadami) Karma is a form of energy. Good thoughts or wholesome thoughts could deliver good results and bad thoughts would deliver bad resultsMessage of LA appears to be the same.

I listened to the tape where to Esther in a hypnotised state talking the messages relayed by a nonphysical entity called Abraham. At one instance Abraham talks of various lives he spent in physical bodies. According to him source energy takes different forms. Sometimes as nonphysical and sometimes as physical. It is clear that he speaks of continuous cycle of rebirths mentioned in Buddhist texts.

Law of Attraction and Christianity

The ideas that make up the Law of Attraction can be found in writings of all faith based religions throughout the centuries. In Bible- Luke 17:20-21 says: 'The kingdom of God does not come with observation; nor will they say, 'See here!' or 'See there!' For, indeed, the kingdom of God is within you.' I wonder whether the 'Kingdom of God' in many faith based religions is in fact your own mind. If we accept this we would find more similarities and fewer differences within major religions. Throughout the Bible emphasis is placed on virtues of extending loving kindness to all human beings. Further it advises the followers to handover the worries to the God and live one day at a time, without thinking of past or future. This will help to generate positive feelings which are supportive in achieving the objectives following are more proof for compatibility of LA and Christianity.

The New Testament Book of Matthew (7:7) states, "Ask and it will be given to you,"

Mark 11:24 asserts that whatever you desire, if you believe you have received it, "it shall be yours." These Biblical passages convey what Rhonda Byrne calls the creative process: "ask, believe, and receive".

Mark 9:23

"Everything is possible for him who believes."

"Luke 17:6

If you have faith as small as a mustard seed, you can say to this tree, Be uprooted and planted in the sea, and it will obey you I tsi done unto you as you believe".

Majority of the people in the world have the habit of visiting sacred places, when they want to achieve something dear to them or to get relief at times of trouble. In our country Buddhists often go to churches, Hindu Kovils and many other sacred places to make vows to achieve their desires. Some do Bodhi Puja's for the same purpose while some worship Sai Baba or the Buddha himself and ask for favours. Very often I hear success stories. I often wonder how sacred places belonging to different religions could have the same power to get what we want. It is reasonable to assume that it is not the power of the sacred place or statue but LA that delivers the goods. When someone go to any statue and worship and ask for a favour, it is unlikely that statue/symbol made of cement, bricks, stones or clay would have the power to fulfil your desire. It is unlikely that a sacred symbol would hear your request.Most logical explanation could be that youare conveying the message to your inner consciousness powerfully, in front of the sacred symbol. LA would deliver what you want to the extent you have faith on sacred symbol to fulfil your desire. We do not realise that same could be achieved with a better success rate at a lesser cost by practising LA principles and Loving Kindness meditation effectively, by providing some time to be with your own self, while staying comfortably at your own home.





The Hotels Association of Sri Lanka (THASL) in association with Negambo Hoteliers Association and Institute of Tourism and Hospitality Management (ITHM) will conduct the first of a series of tourism awareness seminars for A/L students in the Negombo region, on January 23. Over 100 students from schools in the Negombo, Gampaha and Kiribathgoda regions will participate in this 1/2 day programme, which will be held at Jetwing Blue, Negombo.

The programme will be very practically oriented to give students an overview of what the tourism and hospitality industry is, the various job and future career opportunities available,especially in the hotel industry.

The president of the Hotels Association, Jayantissa Kehelpannala will give the key note address, while the past president Srilal Miththapala will co-ordinate the seminar, supported by a Senior Chef, Front Office Manager, House Keeping Manager and Food and Beverage Manager from the Negombo region. After the session, the students will be taken on a tour of the different departments of the hotel, so that they could see for themselves how individual departments of the hotel operate. The Chief Executive Officer of ITHM Lalinda Ariyaratne will be taking care of all the logistical arrangements.





The Dehiattakandiya Magistrate yesterday released on bail UPFA Padiyatalawa Pradeshiya Sabha member, Weerasinghe Darsha Vidanage, who had allegedly assaulted an 18-year-old student for having a love affair with his daughter.

He was enlarged on cash bail of Rs. 2000 and Rs. 100,000 surety bail.

Police media unit told The Island on Monday that the PS member had allegedly assaulted the victim whose mother was the Opposition Leader in the same PS.

The victim was hospitalised following the assault and the suspect surrendered to the police yesterday morning.





I agree with Dr. Obeysekara's views in 'The Island' on Jan. 17, and wish to add that in the past only shouting by malu karayas (fish vendors) botal pattara collectors, those offering to sharpen scissors and knives (kathuru muwath) could be heard. In the 1980s, lottery sellers were using speakers mounted on their bicycles to sell tickets. But now it is a nuisance morning noon and night. Loud music is used by three wheelers selling ice cream, bread and short eats within the housing complexes where children study and the sick and the elderly rest. This practice must stop forthwith.





According to a news item in 'The Island' of 20th Jan, the Government Medical Officers' Forum (GMOF) has said that consumption of powdered milk is injurious to people's health and that it is high time milk imports are banned. The GMOF has also said that powdered milk products contain some harmful ingredients such as butter fats, preservatives and various chemicals. For the benefit of the public, could GMOF indicate why powdered milk is injurious and what these harmful substances in powdered milk products are? A few months ago, it was reported that milk powder contains dicyandiamide, (DCD). Could the GMOF or any other responsible organization tell the general public why DCD is toxic?









A document on Urban Transport Policy Options for Colombo has been formulated to convert Sri Lanka from an agricultural economy to an industrial one, Transport Minister Kumara Welgama said.

Addressing the media in colombo yesterday on urban transport development projects for the Colombo metropolitan region and the suburbs, at a special seminar, the minister pointed out that migration of workers to urban areas had increased the population in these centres, and urban areas had become critical economic hubs. The demand for quality urban life had also increased.

It is a common situation that due to traffic snarls a large number of government servants are unable to report for duty on time. The dire need is to build a transport system to enhance Colombo's economic potential.

He added that the policy strategy of the government for the next 20 years is to promote private and public transport, with existing or new technology or both.

Minister Welgama said that the main objectives of the project were preparing a master plan which included short-term, medium-term and long-term solutions to urban transport issues in the Colombo metropolitan region and suburbs and conducting a pre-feasibility study for the identified main transport project.





NEW DELHI: Seeking to boost bilateral trade, India and Pakistan on Saturday decided to have a non-discriminatory market access (NDMA) programme, keep Wagha-Attari border open 24 hours throughout the year and facilitate the opening of bank branches in each other's country. Wagah is in India's Punjab state and Attari in Pakistan's Punjab province.

"We have agreed that we will open Wagha-Attari border for trade 24X7...Central banks of the two countries in principally agreed to give banking licences to banks nominated by respective governments," India's Commerce and Industry Minister Anand Sharma said at a press conference he held here jointly with his Pakistani counterpart Khurram Dastagir Khan.

Meeting after a gap of 16 months, the commerce ministers of the two nations have agreed to have a NDMA on reciprocal basis.

Although the NDMA falls short of the expectations of a Most-Favoured Nation (MFN) status which India has been insisting on for long, Sharma said, "it is not the first time that such a terminology (NDMA) is used." India granted MNF status to Pakistan 18 years ago.

Khan, who is here on an official visit, said: "Let us not get stranded on nomenclature."

The two ministers also underlined the need for relaxing visa regime to facilitate travel of businessmen to each other's country.

"For a robust economic relation to develop, businessmen of both sides need to visit each other's country. (There is) need for further liberalisation of visa regime," Sharma said.





The reason I admire him most was because he was not – like most boxers – one who resorted to verbal abuse of his opponent and due to his unobtrusive manner.

Patterson was born on Jan. 4, 1935, in Waco, N.C., U.S. and passed away on May 11, 2006, in New Paltz, N.Y.).

Among his most notable achievements was that he was the first US professional boxer to hold the world heavyweight championship twice.

Floyd Patterson was not born with a silver spoon in his mouth. In fact, it was just the opposite. He was born in poverty, in North Carolina.

He grew up in Brooklyn, New York. He learned to box while in a school for emotionally disturbed children and soon began training with Constantine ('Cus') D'Amato, who later worked with Mike Tyson.

Patterson won the New York Golden Gloves titles in 1951 and 1952 and earned the gold medal as a middleweight at the 1952 Olympic Games in Helsinki, Finland.

His first professional fight took place on Sept. 12, 1952. Over the next four years, he lost only one bout (1954), a disputed decision in favour of the clever and far more experienced Joey Maxim, a former light-heavyweight champion.

The amiable Floyd Patterson was undersized for a heavyweight, typically weighing about 185 pounds (84 kg), and had a short reach (71 inches [180 cm]).

In the ring, he relied on his speed and a peekaboo boxing style – for which, if I am not mistaken, Muhammad Ali nick-named him the rabbit - where he held his gloves close to his face.

On Nov. 30, 1956, he knocked out Archie Moore in five rounds in Chicago to capture the heavyweight title vacated by the retired Rocky Marciano.

At the time, Patterson was the youngest person to hold the championship. He defended his title in four subsequent fights before facing Ingemar Johansson of Sweden on June 26, 1959. Although heavily favoured to win, Patterson was knocked out in the third round. On June 20, 1960, he regained the title with a fifth-round knockout of Johansson.

Patterson remained heavyweight champion until Sept. 25, 1962, when he was knocked out in the first round by Sonny Liston in Chicago. He later was defeated by Liston and Muhammad Ali in his attempts to recapture the world championship.

In 1968, he lost to Jimmy Ellis, the World Boxing Association heavyweight champion, in a match for that version of the disputed world title. He retired from the ring in 1972, having won 55 of 64 fights. Forty of his wins were by knockout.

Patterson, who was noted for his shyness and gentle manner, later ran an amateur boxing club and was athletic commissioner for the state of New York.









Indian SC commutes death sentences to life imprisonment, cites delay in mercy plea decisions

January 21, 2014, 9:56 pm

By S Venkat Narayan Our Special Correspondent

NEW DELHI, January 21: India's Supreme Court on Tuesday held that death sentence of a condemned prisoner can be commuted to life imprisonment on the ground of delay on the part of the government in deciding the mercy plea.

Analysts said this is a landmark verdict that can come as a relief to many death row convicts,

Giving life term to 15 death row inmates, including four aides of forest brigand Veerappan, the apex court also ruled that a death convict suffering from mental insanity and schizophrenia cannot be hanged.

It overruled its own verdict in Khalistani terrorist Devinderpal Singh Bhullar's case, in which it had held that delay in deciding mercy plea cannot be a ground for commutation of death sentence.

Death sentence in such cases can be commuted to life imprisonment on the ground of their mental illness, it said.

Today's judgment may have implications in various cases, including the petitions filed by three death row convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case who have challenged the President's rejection of their mercy plea less than three years ago. Gandhi was assassinated in May 1991 by an LTTE woman suicide-bomber at an election rally in Sriperumbudur near Chennai.

Framing guidelines on disposal of mercy petitions and execution of death sentence, a bench headed by Chief Justice P Sathasivam ruled that convicts given death sentence must be informed about the rejection of their mercy pleas and should be given a chance to meet their family members before they are executed.

It also held that solitary confinement of a prisoner, including death row convict, is unconstitutional and it should not be allowed in the prisons.

The bench gave its verdict on a batch of petitions filed by 15 death row inmates seeking its direction for commutation of their sentence to life term on the grounds of delay in deciding mercy plea and mental illness.

The bench also said that execution of death sentence should be carried out within 14 days after rejection of the mercy plea.

The apex court also said that the prison authorities must provide legal aid to prisoners facing death sentence so that they can approach courts for commutation of their sentence on the ground of their illness and delay in deciding mercy plea by the government.

Pronouncing its judgment on 13 petitions filed by the 15 convicts whose execution of sentence had been stayed by the apex court, the three-judge bench clarified that its directions be implemented in all cases whether a person has been convicted under IPC or the anti-terror law.

The issue of communication of rejection of mercy plea assumes importance in view of the controversy surrounding the execution of Parliament attack case convict Mohd Afzal as there was allegation that his family members were not properly communicated about the dismissal of his plea and subsequent hanging.

Earlier, a two-judge bench in April last year had held that long delay in disposing of mercy pleas by the President or the governor of persons convicted under anti-terror laws or similar statutes cannot be a ground for commutation of death sentence.

The April 12, 2013 ruling was pronounced while rejecting Bhullar's plea for commutation of sentence on ground of delay in deciding his mercy plea. At that time, there were over 20 convicts facing execution.

Later on, an apex court bench had granted relief to a condemned prisoner MN Das who had sought conversion of his death sentence to life imprisonment on the ground of delay in deciding his mercy petition.

Justice Sathasivam, before taking over as Chief Justice of India, had said that there was a need for "authoritative pronouncements" by a larger bench or a Constitution Bench on issues like mercy pleas to avoid conflicting views by smaller benches.

The 15 death row inmates on whose pleas the apex court delivered its verdict are sandalwood smuggler Veerappan's aides and others.

The other death row convicts included Suresh, Ramji, Gurmeet Singh, Praveen Kumar, Sonia and her husband Sanjeev, Sundar Singh and Jafar Ali—-convicted in various cases.





Reconstruction of one kilometre of 135 km long Jaffna-Vavuniya had cost Rs 112.88 million rupees, Parliament was told yesterday.

Responding to a question raised by UNP Colombo District MP Ravi Karunanayake, Deputy Minister of Highways Nirmala Kotelawala said the Jaffna-Vavuniya road development project had commenced in 2011 and time taken for the project was 28 months.

The 135 km long road had a width of nine metres with two lanes and within the Kilinochchi urban area, the road had four lanes. There were 35 bridges and 273 culverts on the road.

Asked whether the constructor had been selected following a tender procedure, the deputy minister responded in the affirmative and the selected bidder was China National Aero Technology International Engineering Corporation Ltd (CATIC-ENG).

Asked to name the funding sources, the minister said that 85 percent of the project cost had been covered by Exim Bank, China and the balance 15 percent had been covered by domestic funds.





The government is all prepared to launch the establishment of new University Colleges on the basis of one in each District where NVQ level 5 and 6 diplomas will be delivered in subject areas of skills demand in local and international labour markets. This is exactly giving effect to the President's vision for a new Sri Lanka as reproduced below;

"The tertiary and vocational training has to be geared to meet the requirements of emerging needs of domestic and overseas labour markets. Therefore, I will take action to expand tertiary education to provide international level knowledge and training and to protect the dignity of the profession," (Mahinda Chintana 2005, p74)

Under the leadership of Dullas Alhapperuma, Minister of Youth Affairs and Skills Development, and the guidance of the Monitoring MP of the Ministry and Education, Deputy Minister Mohan Lal Grero, action is underway to start the new diploma programmes, opening new gateways for GCE A/L qualified youth and also to those who are coming through the NVQ system. Having NVQ level 5 and 6 diplomas, they would be able to enroll for degree courses in respective subject areas. The growing Sri Lanka economy demands application of new technology for productivity improvement in manufacturing and service processes. There will be a rising demand for competent people with new areas in an expanding economy which the Government has foreseen and acted proactively to prepare human resources for the growing demand.

The new areas include:

* Chemical and Process Technology

* Renewable Energy Technology

* Cosmetology

* Tea Technology

* Maritime and Logistics Management

* Footwear Production Technology and Management

* Performing Arts

* Post Harvest Technology

* Building Services Technology

* Heavy Vehicle Maintenance Technology

* Plantation Crop Technology

* Aqua Culture Technology

* Irrigation Technology

* Polymer Technology

* Fishing Technology

* Event Management

* Fashion Design Technology

* Television Program Production Technology

* Television Post Production Technology

* Hospitality Management

* Electrical Technology

* Electronic Technology

* Interior Design

With this initiative, the educated youth will have a variety of tertiary education options to match their interests and capabilities, thus reducing unemployment among educated youth, which is relatively high in the country. In a globalised world, human capital movement between countries is a common feature today and those with skills and recognized qualifications always have employment opportunities all over the world. Presently, those who are employed abroad bring the highest amount of foreign exchange to the country in order to cushion the foreign exchange requirements for imports and other currency requirements.

With the leadership of the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Skills Development, the University of Vocational Technology, the Tertiary and Vocational Education Commission, National Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Authority have been working on this programme with the active participation of industry.





A nine-year-old student of Ananda College, Colombo, faced an untimely and shocking death yesterday due to the negligence of school employees. He succumbed to injuries he had sustained when a ground roller he and his friends were playing with pinned him to a wall.

The postmortem conducted by additional JMO of Colombo, Dr. R. Haq revealed that the child, Senith Wijesinghe of Kaduwela, Malabe, had died due to injuries to the liver and heart.

Following the postmortem and investigations conducted by the Maradana police, the death had been ruled as being not suspicious. The child had died on admission to the Lady Ridgeway Hospital in Borella, police said.

Principal Kithsiri Liyange said that the lawn roller had been kept at an unprotected location and it should have been kept elsewhere.

He said that there were many students on the playground at the time as they were practising for the physical training display for the sports meet scheduled to be held on January 31.

Police said that the child had come to the school in the morning and was playing with the other students of his class between 7.00 a.m. and 7.10 a.m. when the mishap occurred.

According to initial investigations, the victim had been pulling the heavy lawn roller from its handle, while another four students of his age had been pushing it from its base. Then the victim's chest had been pinned against the wall.

Some year seven students who witnessed the incident had rushed to rescue the child and handed him over to the school Red Cross unit before being rushed to the hospital, police said.





Justice Minister Rauff Hakeem yesterday said those who levelled war crime allegations against Sri Lanka should be cross-examined. Hakeem, who is also the leader of the UPFA constituent, Sri Lanka Muslim Congress (SLMC), said that the veracity of allegations had to be ascertained and, therefore, specific allegations would have to be made in a court of law either here or abroad.

Minister Hakeem was responding to questions raised by The Island in an interview at the Justice Ministry yesterday.

The Justice Minister said that the recommendation that written and oral submissions as regards accountability issues received by the United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-moon's three-member Panel of Experts (PoE) would remain 'strictly confidential' until 2031 could hinder the ongoing efforts to address accountability issues. The PoE further recommended that even after that declassification they would be subject to another review in accordance with UNSG Moon's bulletin on 'Information sensitivity, classification and handling.'

The US embassy, too, declared that it wouldn't reveal eyewitness accounts of war crimes though officials met on a regular basis with a broad range of individuals around the country.

The Island sought a clarification in the wake of US embassy's claim in a statement issued at the conclusion of State Department official Ambassador Stephen J. Rapp's visit on January 11 that the envoy had got an opportunity to listen to eyewitness accounts of serious human rights abuses and violations of international humanitarian law including those which allegedly occurred during the closing stages of the Vanni war.

Minister Hakeem said that the government was in the process of introducing a witness protection programme to facilitate investigations into accountability issues. The country had felt the need to introduce such a programme even before the conclusion of the conflict in May 2009, he said.

Referring to the work undertaken by the International Independent Group of Eminent Persons (IIGEP) as regards witness protection mechanism etc at the height of the war, the Minister said that the Attorney General's Department had objected to the move.

Responding to another query, the SLMC leader said that in accordance with mutual assistance in criminal matters legislation there was provision for foreign courts to obtain evidence relating to a specific case heard in Sri Lanka and transmit the same to Colombo. Minister Hakeem said that he had an opportunity to discuss the proposed mechanism with Ambassador Rapp, who was in Sri Lanka from January 6 to 11.

Acknowledging that their refusal to divulge sources had been influenced by the assumption that those giving evidence could be harmed, Minister Hakeem said that a witness protection programme was now on the drawing board.

The minister stressed that whatever the circumstances, information collected by the UN or any other agency couldn't be accepted without proper verification. The PoE is on record as having said that it has received over 4,000 submissions (both oral and written) from 2,300 persons.

Commenting on human rights allegations against the US and UK for military action in Iraq and elsewhere, Minister Hakeem said that the US had ignored the International Criminal Court (ICC) though the UK endorsed the Rome Statue way back in 2001. The Minister said that the US produced servicemen accused of atrocities before military tribunals. Sri Lanka could do the same, the minister said, adding that the ICC too, would allow local investigations to take place before direct intervention.

The minister was responding to recent UK declaration that there was no need for ICC intervention as accountability issues were either under thorough investigation or had been dealt with through various means, including the Iraq Historic Allegations Team, independent public inquiries, the UK and European Courts and in Parliament.

The Island also brought the US recommendation to Sri Lanka that the arsenal of Russian MiG 27s and Israeli Kfirs be expanded to include cluster bombs to the notice of the Justice Minister. The US made the recommendation in late 2002 following a comprehensive examination of strength and weakness of the Sri Lankan military.

Minister Hakeem acknowledged that a section of the Catholic clergy had recently accused the GoSL of using cluster ammunition during eelam war IV during a meeting with Ambassador Rapp.

Former SLAF Chief Air Chief Marshal Roshan Goonetileke told The Island that cluster ammunitions had never been used though both Kfirs, MiG 27s as well as Chinese jets could have been deployed for the purpose.





The Chairman of the Imbulpe Pradeshiya Sabha D. R. Indra Gunatillake, has complained to the Supreme Court that the Chief Minister of the Sabaragamuwa Province has taken a wrongful decision to nullify the vote on the 2014 budget on the basis that the petitioner as Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha, had failed to amend the budget proposals when they were submitted to the Pradeshiya Sabha for a second time.

The petitioner has said that was subjected to arbitrary treatment by the Chief Minister and further by the Secretary and the Members of the Pradeshiya Sabha. The latter has attempted to consider that the petitioner resigned as Chairman. But that was not so, since petitioner did not violate Section 169 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, the petition says.

The petitioner wants the Court to restrain the Pradeshiya Members from acting on the basis that the petitioner had resigned from the office of Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha.

Among the respondents are the Secretary of the Imbulpe Pradeshiya Sabha, U. W. Premasiri of Balangoda, the Commissioner of Local Government, the Returning Officer for Imbulpe and the Commissioner of Election.





The Maldives and Sri Lanka are to pursue tourism promotion,it was revealed yesterday.

Asked by "The Island" during yesterday's Sri Lanka- Maldives Business Forum at the Colombo Hilton,if the two countries would consider promoting themselves as joint destinations,Ministers representing both sides said it was a worthwhile suggestion and would be pursed vigorously.

Deputy Foreign Minister Neomal Perera who responded first said " Why not.I think there is scope for selling dual packages that promoted both our Island nations.It needs to be pursued".

The Maldivian Tourism Minister Adeeb Abdul Gafoor agreeing noted "We,have to sit down an jointly strategise tourism cooperation.The focus should be on complementing each other with the private sector playing a leading role.We,are already working with the Seychelles and Mauritius,which are two leading leisure destinations.The opportunity to extend such cooperation should be welcomed."

Head of the Maldivian delegation Qasim Ibrahim MP, invited Sri Lankans to invest heavily in the Maldivian banking sector which he described as relatively small.There was ample scope to make profits.All foreign banks operationg in Male were making profits,Ibrahim noted pointing out that Shipping was another area that could be explored, since the local industry was virtually dead.

When referred to difficulties involved in securing business visas,he replied that they were taking steps to make the procedure more flexible and easier. "With around 100,000 foreginers working in the Maldivian archipelago, we have to tread cautiously with regard to the issue of visas."

Ibrahim observed that the move to increase the Hotel bed tax, was aimed at helping the Yameen government to overcome the economic difficulties which it had inherited from the previous regime.

Minister Perera observed that around 10,000 Maldivians were resident in Sri Lanka and most of them had come for educational purposes or medical treatment.Many Maldivian's including four of its Presidents,he noted had studied in Sri Lanka or were educated in Male by Sri Lankan teachers.

The Minister invited more Foreign Direct Investments in the leisure agricultural sector, pointing out that currently it was just US$ 5 million. "We are going into Free Trade Agreements with China and Russia.The Maldives would certainly benefit by increasing trade,tourism and investment links with Sri Lanka".

Deputy Parliamentary Group leader of the ruling Progressive Party of Maldives,Moosa Zameer, replying to a question on the dearth of foreign currency in the Maldives, attributed it to the absence of currency controls and a huge budget deficit which he predicted would be rectified in three years time .

Adeeb said that the difficulty in finding a free flow of dollars at bank rates, could also be attributed to the fact that the Maldives had a ninety nine percent import economy.The government he noted was planning to reduce the minimum reserve level while admitting that they were experiencing both current account and budget deficits

The Maldives, was strict in issuing visas for unskilled workers but it was not so for the skilled category, Adeeb added.





Dulaj Harshana completed a match-bag of eight wickets with a five-wicket haul in the second innings to lead Tissa Central to a seven-wicket victory over Devapathiraja College, Ratgama in the U-19 cricket encounter ended before tea at Public Ground, Kalutara yesterday.





Ten trade union of paramedical employees, had filed a counter plaint in the District Court of Colombo, claiming Rs. 200 million damages from a plaintiff patient, who had filed a case in the District Court of Colombo and obtained an Enjoining Order against the token strike these trade unions, scheduled for November 27, 28, 2013.

This counter claim by the paramedics said that the plaint filed by the plaintiff patient, did not come within the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code. Token strikes were permitted by the Trade Unions Act. The purported patient had not remained in the National Hospital even for 18 hours. The plaint was baseless, the counter claim said.

Attorney-at-Law Lilantha de Silva, had filed the counter claim.

Faizer Mustapha P.C., appeared with Ranjan Fonseka for the plaintiff.

The District Judge of Colombo Mr. Pradep Hettiarachchi on January 20, gave the plaintiff, time till March 29, 2014 to object to the counter claim.





UNP parliamentary group yesterday decided not to go on foreign trips with President Mahinda Rajapaksa except in the event of a funeral of a state leader or high profile religious event.

The party had made the decision after taking into consideration what had transpired in their meeting over the issue of Chief Opposition Whip John Amaratunga accompanying President Rajapaksa in recent tour of West Asian countries, party sources said.

UNP parliamentary group met in a committee room in the Parliament Complex with party leader Ranil Wickremesinghe presiding. Wickremesinghe at the commencement of the meeting pointed out that media had reacted adversely to Amaratunga's participation in the President's tour.

Wickremesinghe said that External Affairs Minister Prof. G.L. Peiris had several times informed him that a representative of the Opposition should participate in the Sri Lankan delegation visiting the Church of Nativity in Palestine, considered the birth place of Jesus Christ.

UNP MPs Ajith P. Perera, Ranjan Ramanayake, P. Harrison and Rosy Senanayake were among those who found fault with John Amaratunga, according to party sources.

Wickremesinghe pointed out that the party should take a policy decision with regard to matters of similar nature and thereafter the parliamentary group decided that the UNP members should not join in president's tours abroad except for funerals of state leaders or high profile religious events.

Party sources said that the UNP MPs then raised the question what should they be doing with regard to participation on the events such as the Speaker's dinner and cricket tournaments between the ministers and MPs.

Wickremesinghe said that the Speaker's dinner for Parliamentarians was a tradition that commenced by the UNP therefore the members should take that fact into consideration before taking any policy decision with regard to that matter.





Thomians young and old will compete in a triathlon on January 25, Saturday, to raise funds for new classrooms for Advanced Level students and to establish a Staff Trust Fund, to assist teachers.

Students and old boys of S. Thomas' College, Mount Lavinia, and its affiliates, Prep School Kollupitiya, Bandarawela and Gurutalawa, will take part in the triathlon, organised by the Old Boys' Association (OBA), together with the Parents' Teachers' Association (PTA) and students of the four schools.

The triathlon is supported by Dialog as the Technology Partner, Ceylinco Insurance as its Insurer and Nations Trust Bank as the Banking Partner.

Supported by school boys, teachers, parents, old boys and well-wishers, the triathlon will raise funds for the new Senior Quadrangle Classroom Block Project to accommodate the A/L Commerce Classes at Mount Lavinia and the Staff Trust Fund.

The Senior Quadrangle Project will be built in three phases and the first phase has already commenced with the generous contribution by an old boy with 12 classrooms scheduled to be opened by May 2014. The total project cost is estimated at Rs. 250 million.

The triathlon will start with swimming at the Bishop's and Ladies' College pools (from 6 to 8am), followed by running/walking up to Havelock Park (from 8.15 to 10.00am) and then the final leg of cycling on Galle Road (10.30 am to noon), to the College Big Club Grounds at Mount Lavinia.

The climax of the event at Big Club Grounds will take the shape of a mini carnival, where there will be musical shows, amusement activitiesprogrammes, and trade and food stalls. Bands in attendance will be Glory, Journey and Audacity.

Triathlon participants should obtain a participatory donation card from the OBA Secretariat at Mount Lavinia, by contributing Rs. 3,000.00 and receiving a specially-designed sports triathlon shirt and cap.





One of the most well-known customer service and inspirational trainers in Sri Lanka, Dhammika Kalapuge presents yet another one-day programme in the series titled 'Lead To Serve', to lead teams to set the service culture right in organisations, on January 30 at The Kingsbury Hotel, Colombo.

The facilitator Dhammika Kalapuge has a reputation for conducting inspirational programmes both locally and overseas. During the last decade and half he has conducted over 2,100 programmes, for more than 400 private and public sector institutions, mostly to achieve excellence in service quality as he works on a theme 'Sri Lanka So Lovely, Serving Lively'. His ability to take a message simply and effectively and reach the hearts of people from all walks of life with true to life stories has been considered as a significant attribute of his educational programmes.

Commenting on this new programme – 'Lead To Serve', facilitator Dhammika Kalapuge said, "With the growth momentum in business activities being witnessed presently, supported by the infrastructure development of the country, the need to serve customers passionately has become a priority requirement in all sectors of the economy. In the reactivated market place, leading customer interface staff to deliver a memorable service experience can bring about a competitive edge to any entity. This one-day programme will give an insight to the service champions to inspire their 'service teams' to better sell and serve its clientele consistently. Moreover, successful delivery of great service experiences by the team members eventually results in higher customer loyalty and profitability".

With this learning, participants will appreciate how important it is for service champions to create and lead a service culture across the entity with the willing support and acceptance of each and every team member. Participants will also learn how crucial it is to receive and give feedback to senior management on the improvements needed to the Rule-set (Policies), Tool-set (Processes) and Mind-set (People) in order to further improve the service standards.The programme will enrich and empower the service champions with a passion to strengthen and enhance the customer service culture to its fullest potential in organisations.

The programme is aimed at Heads of Customer Service Units, Service Champions, Relationship Managers and Senior Front office staff. As a key outcome of the programme participants will document three action steps that will help create a 'distinctly sustainable differentiation' for their organisation.

Over the last eight years, Dhammika's programmes are organised by SIPCOM-1(PVT) LTD – a company focusing on total people development. SIPCOM-1 housed at Galadari Hotel organises and promotes in-house and public programmes mostly on 'service quality', exclusively designed and conducted by Dhammika Kalapuge.





Our total dependency on the first language in every facet of life - which usually goes unnoticed - makes it extremely difficult for us to replace it later on; hence, the distinctive problem of switching over to another language as we grow old.

Acquiring a second language is proportional to minimizing one's dependency on the first language, with respect to listening, speaking, reading, writing - not to mention thinking. A learner who is trying to hang on to the strings of a second language should be prepared to loosen his firm grip on those of the first language; but, luckily, we don't have to do it in one go. We can do it selectively, according to our needs, and this is where reading comes to help the adult learner in a significant way.

The four aspects of language: listening, speaking, reading and writing - are strongly interconnected, but each of them also enjoys some autonomy. Further, the strength of these interlinks depends on whether the language in question is the first language or the second. Obviously, listening and speaking are more closely connected in the first language than in the second language. To illustrate, a toddler would invariably speak the language he hears, simply because he has no alternative; but this is not the case when he begins to learn his second language as an adult because he has already acquired a language. Therefore, a grown-up person may listen to English - his second language - for years on end, but will continue to speak his first language. The unique indissoluble link between listening and speaking which is only natural in first language acquisition in children does not exist here. The other two facets of language - reading and writing - being learnt skills and not naturally acquired skills, are much more loosely connected, be it the first language or the second language.

In light of the above, it is perfectly possible for a motivated adult learner to start listening to English without having to speak it. So is it with reading. In our country, a person may at any age opt to switch over to English for reading purposes, while continuing to speak and write in his first language. This freedom of choice is a particular advantage in second language learning, but unfortunately, few learners seem to have realized its pragmatic and strategic value.

It is the deep seated myth that learning English without formal instruction can leave some gaps in their knowledge which urges aspiring learners to totally rely on tuition and undermine the potential of self-study, particularly, reading. There are students who, after spending large sums of money on various English language programmes, end up being no wiser than they were at the beginning. If only, they chose to spend all that money thrown on tuition to buy a collection of English books, they would gain a significant proficiency in English in a relatively short time and gradually become avid readers as well, which would be an invaluable investment. Thus, those who do not teach English for financial gain may do an incomparable service to learners of English by inculcating in them a liking for reading. It will be another step towards making them more efficient and self-reliant learners of English. It needs only commitment and zeal on the part of the teachers to make it happen.





SLI provides protection to officers and their families of Army Volunteer Forces

January 21, 2014, 7:07 pm

Sri Lanka Insurance recently signed an MOU to provide a surgical and Health Cover to the Officers and families of the Army Volunteer Forces. Picture shows the exchange of MOU between chairman Sri Lanka Insurance Upali Dharmadasa and Major General S.A.P.P.Samarasinghe , Piyadasa Kudabalage Managing Director Sri Lanka Insurance, Deputy Major General W.D.L.P. Wickramasinghe are also in the picture.





There's a learning curve for everything in life. Starting your own business is no different. Often, the learning curve is steeper in the case of becoming an entrepreneur but there's so much we learn in the process that eventually serves us well as we build the business.There are many ideas we start out with but later on, as the business grows, you realize that there's so much more that needs to be done in different ways.

Just ask the ones who have travelled that road before. James Green, recognized as one of the new generation CEOs heading Magnetic, an ad technology company, started out with Disney and Pixar. In his career, he has built and sold four tech companies successfully.

According to Green, one of the things you can get wrong when building your own business is to get too attached to a business. Some people think of their business as an extension of themselves. It isn't – it's just a venture you have created and one that could be sold or transformed without regrets.

"The one thing I wish I'd known when I started a business is that I shouldn't get emotionally attached to it," Green says. "Companies have no feelings, and they are things, not people. Put bluntly (and laying aside non-profits and other nontraditional entities), companies are here for one reason and one reason alone: to make money. Everyone knows that money can't buy you love, and by extension it makes no sense to love your company. There may come a time when you have to change it, dissolve it, close it, give it to someone else to run, cede control to investors, or any other number of things."

Green is right. Some entrepreneurs cannot bring themselves to think beyond their businesses. But that is not how it should be. It is good to keep in mind that the business did not create you and that you created the business. Yet understandably, some business owners feel fatherly or motherly about a business – when you start one from nothing and watch it become a success, you naturally feel proud of it's creation. Yet, there are times when the umbilical cord must be cut in order to move on.

Yet another trait start ups get wrong is to assume that everything has to be done by the founder – delegation does not come easy to some. You may have founded a business but you will not have all the answers so it is imperative to be able to solicit and understand advice. You could be wrong at times. You can be too focused on a business enough to be myopic about it. Often times, fresh insights and different perspectives help. You do not have to hold on to the remote control – you can let go and let others handle some of the decision making functions. The company benefits from such change of direction in the long term.

Some entrepreneurs fail to understand that market dynamics change faster than you could grasp it. As technology advances, so do the markets. How attuned are you to the changing markets and how aware are you of the need to change your own product offering? Are you ready to incorporate the changes or are you merely burying your head in the sand – these are questions you need to ask yourself.

Formulas need to change and those changes need to be incorporated into the product or service mix you are offering. As we all know, refusing to change can be disastrous. You need to keep your ears and eyes open to change and be able to acknowledge in if and when it does happen. Change is inevitable and the best way to handle it is to go along with it and see in what ways it could add a sharper edge to your business.

Being an entrepreneur is a journey, one that takes you to the heights of vistas and sometimes to the depths but the feeling is hard to beat, especially when you know that you have created and built a business that has grown successfully. Yet the challenges as always mount and it is always up to us to be able to successfully navigate those challenges.





The high value Wallapatta tree inner bark which has caused quite a stir with many foreigners and locals attempting to smuggle it out of the country in recent months will be permitted to be exported in the future through commercial cultivation.

The government objective is to cultivate it in commercial quantities. At present it is found only in reserve forests in limited quantities.

Accordingly, the authorities are planning to obtain Cabinet approval for legal export of this high demand for the inner bark in the manufacture of expensive perfumes.

On a proposal of Agriculture Minister Mahinda Yapa Abeywardena, the government hopes to launch a project to cultivate Wallapatta with assistance from the Agriculture Department.

A spokesman for the Department said that it would not allow the felling of the trees from the forest reserves and existing laws to protect the plant would be enforced.





Who is interested in human rights?

January 21, 2014, 5:51 pm

By Nalin de Silva

The "Irida Divaina" of 19th January announced with a banner headline that the mask worn by US the US had dropped, and it is very likely that the good translators at the American Embassy in Sri Lanka would have brought it to the notice of the officials in the embassy who are 'committed' to human rights. It may be that the embassy is not concerned of news items reported in the Sri Lankan press, especially of the 'vernacular' Sinhala as these are mostly read by Sinhala Buddhists. Why should the super power be concerned of what the Sinhala Buddhists think of the American policy? The embassy it appears has ignored the news item, and no media has bothered to ask the spokesperson of the embassy to respond to it.

In essence what the 'Irida Divaina' has said was that the American government would withdraw the resolution that is intended to be brought before the Geneva human rights council provided that the Sri Lankan government would implement the following among others: devolving all powers including land and police powers as per the thirteenth amendment to the Northern and Eastern Provinces, releasing land in the Northern Province, Hold an independent investigation of all officers in the armed forces who have alleged 'war crime' charges against them, allowing the NGOs and media to work without any obstacles within the country and indicting the tigers in custody or releasing them.

I do not want to analyse these demands, and it is reported that the government has rejected all of them. The demands are political and a threat to the national security as the Sri Lankan government has apparently realised. However, what is interesting is that according to the 'Irida Divaina' the American government is prepared to drop the charges of human rights violations if the Sri Lankan government accedes to its demands. These charges on human rights violations would naturally include those on so-called war crimes, and what it implies is that the west especially England and USA are using human rights as a political weapon. This is not something unknown, and unlike the 'pundits' and enlightened people of various fora we 'yakkos' knew always that human rights were used by the western countries led by England and the US against countries in Asia and Africa to maintain the hegemony of the Judaic Christian culture.

The England-led west has been using the Tamils, previously the English educated Tamil Vellalas, at present the dispersed Tamils in the west against the Sinhala people, especially the Sinhala Buddhists. The NGO pundits and the UNP, the JVP have joined the west in this exercise either directly or indirectly. What the west wants is an autonomous Eastern Province and a Northern Province controlled by the dispersed Tamils in the west, and as far as the former is concerned TNA is only a tool in this whole exercise. The TNA or its predecessors were only proxies of the LTTE in Parliament and the role that the west wants the TNA to play Parliament and the provincial councils is similar. The TNA for all purposes is the proxy of the dispersed Tamils in the west its present leaders can hold on to the positions in the party only if they carry out orders from the dispersed Tamils.

The moment that the west and the dispersed Tamils lose faith in them they will be replaced by another set. The NGO pundits in Sri Lanka have also gradually turning to politics from being good Samaritans interested in peace and human rights. They probably know with the west that human rights are beginning to lose all the attractions with the government of Sri Lanka flatly refusing to be fooled by western strategies.

The pundits writing on behalf of NGOs are now agitating again for so-called international pressure on the government of Sri Lanka to implement the thirteenth amendment and devolve more and more power to the Northern and Eastern Provinces. The government correctly appears to believe that there is no ethnic problem in the country. The President has said this, may be in different words but it is the general opinion among the Sinhala people, especially among the Sinhala Buddhists as well. It is not that the latter formed its opinion after the government, but a case of the government getting the cue from the public. As we have said often Sinhala nationalism is bottom up and the leaders and opinion leaders take the cue from the masses.

Strictly speaking there are no opinion leaders in the Sinhala society, as the latter are only the mouth pieces or the writing arms of the general public. This is something that the western educated NGO pundits among the Sinhalas, most of whom are non Buddhists fail to grasp. The Bandaranaikes had to implement what the Sinhala people wanted and even in the case of Bhikkus they put down the essence of Sinhala Buddhist thinking into words.

Of course, the Sinhala majority may not know the intricacies of cultural domination but they understand it intuitively. Few months ago I had the opportunity to say in public that the western science is 'pattapal boru' (blatant lies), and the response I got from the public was revealing. The middle class professionals who have been exposed to western 'higher education', whatever it means, criticized me for what I had to say and the way I said them. However, the so-called common man whom I meet in my travels around the country, was very appreciative of not only what I said but the way I said and somebody (an unknown person) told me I spoke for the 'gama'. These people may not have heard of Newton and Einstein and would be considered as uneducated by the so called professionals, but in their hearts they know that western knowledge is oppressive.

There are no multi cultural countries anywhere in the world, England being the supreme example for a Christian country. The English have been so successful in maintaining their Christian culture, not to be confused with the declining of Church attendance on Sundays, that the entire world education is now almost part of the English culture. It is those exposed to this education especially in the GCE A/L classes and in the universities who cannot understand that the education that they have received is English Christian and fortunately the ordinary Sinhala people have nothing to learn from them. What the NGO non Sinhala Buddhist pundits who clamor for 'international pressure' is that the majority of Sinhala Buddhists, unlike the 'educated' are not scared or threatened by such demands. The Sinhala people know their onions when it comes to culture and domination, and unlike the English they have not pushed their culture through the throats of people of other cultures and hence not bothered by the accusations against them by the England led west nor those in Sri Lanka dominated by the west.





Sri Lanka's most innovative Insurance solutions provider, HNB Assurance has augmented its online channel with the launch of HNBA's'eLife' which offers the utmost convenience in obtaining a life insurance policy 100% online, but also offers you an array of life cover benefits a comprehensive life policy should have.

Commenting on this new online product, Prasantha Fernando, General Manager–Life of HNB Assurance stated "HNB Assurance eLife is an innovative initiative from HNB Assurance designed for your convenience and flexibility. We have given our customers two insurance plans to select from. They can select between a policy with a higher life cover and no maturity payment for a lower premium or a policy with a maturity payment at end of the term for a higher premium.These plans are convenient,affordable,simple, transparent, less time consuming and is aimed for those who seek insurance covers at nominal premiums against their liabilities.

'eLife' is available from 20thJanuary onwards, via www.hnbassurance/eLife.it is for persons aged between 18 to 60, and carries a minimum Basic Sum Assured (BSA) of Rs. 100,000 Maximum BSA of 3 million.This product is available to all Sri Lankan citizens residing in Sri Lanka and abroad .Over the last couple of years, several life insurance companies have launched online term plans but what's enticing about e- life is that itis affordable and that it can be customisedfor your requirement. This online insurance can be bought in four simple steps. The first step requires the customer to select the life cover and to get an estimate. Second step requires the customer to fill in personal details followed byanswering few basic health questions.Fourth step requires the customer to pay their premium and to activate their Insurance policy.

Commenting on the newly launched product, Lalith Fernando, General Manager - Marketing & Distribution of HNB Assurance stated "Its principal selling point is unparalleled convenience: a policyholder can navigate and complete an online application in less than 5 minutes using the 4 simple steps, any time of the day or night, seven days a week, you can choose to pay by credit card via a highly secure internet payment gateway, and, with eLifeno medical reports are required and can receive his or her policy via courier within few days. Once the Insurance is bought, onlinepolicyholders can take a printout of the policy documents and receive automatic confirmation of transactions via email and SMS.





Qasim Ibrahim presiding over the Constitutional Assembly, which drafted the Maldives' new Constitution.

by Zacki Jabbar

recently in Male

Qasim Ibrahim lost his mother when he was 39 days old and at the age of four, had the misfortune of seeing his father going blind. While his grandmother looked after him, it was an aunty of his, who also had an infant child, that breast fed him.

The poor village boy, also known as Buruma Qasim has come a long way from being a domestic aide to the Jumhooree Party's Presidential candidate and eventually Kingmaker. Having been placed third in the first round of the recently held Maldivian Presidential Election, he successfully threw his weight behind Abdullah Yameen, the Progressive Party of Maldives (PPM) candidate in the run off with Maldivian Democratic Party (MDP) leader Mohammed Nasheed. Ironically, it was Qasim who in October 2008 helped Nasheed win the archipelago's first multi party Presidential poll.

Currently a Member Parliament, Qasim first entered politics in 1989. He has over the years served in many capacities including that of the Speaker of the Constitutional Assembly that drafted the Maldives new constitution, Minister of Finance and Home Affairs, Central Bank Governor and President of the Judicial Services Commission.

His business interests range from tourism to transport, shipping, construction, manufacturing and Gas. Qasim even built the country's only private airport in Maamigili. But, he is best remembered and loved for work done through his Villa Foundation which has assisted thousands of underprivileged Maldivians in the fields of education and health, by providing scholarships, medical assistance, building schools and hospitals. He is currently working on establishing a fully fledged General Hospital, which would have the country's first cancer treatment facility.

Excerpts of the interview:

After several court cases and postponements, the Maldives has finally elected a new President. How do you view the current political situation in the country?

A – There has been a change for the better. Earlier there was a lot of uncertainty. The MDP alleged that there was a coup on February 7, 2012, but that is not correct. The MDP leader and former President Mohammed Nasheed left office after publicly announcing that he was resigning. Lack of experience and a series of dictatorial and corrupt actions led to his downfall. Even to run a company one needs experience. The people who surrounded him also contributed to his exit.

What was the main reason for a section of the public, Police and Military to demand that President Nasheed resigns?

A – Mr. Nasheed repeatedly violated the Constitution. He even went to the extent of abducting the Chief Criminal Court Judge Abdulla Mohamed who had directed that a religious leader detained without a proper warrant be released. The people then lost confidence in him and agitated for 23 continuous days demanding that he steps down. On Nasheed's last day in office, the MDP declared war on the public, who were unarmed. On his orders the Police which was trying to maintain law and order withdrew, resulting in a clash between MDP activists and the public. Nasheed was hoping that the disturbances would lead to bloodshed, thereby giving him an opportunity to impose Emergency rule, but the Police came back to perform their duties, obviously realising that the Constitution prohibited them from carrying out illegal orders, even if it came from the Head of State. Nasheed is being tried on a charge of abduction but we will not interfere with the judiciary which is an independent institution in the Maldives.

On February 8, 2012 the MDP caused massive damage by attacking and also burning private and public property including Police Stations. In this connection too, many court cases have been filed against those who led the riots.

Some Commonwealth countries and the UNHRC, criticised the Maldivian Supreme Court for what it described as unnecessary interference in the conduct of the last Presidential Poll?

A – They were under the impression that the Election would not be held because their favourite candidate Mr. Nasheed had said so, but were proved wrong. Article 113 of our Constitution requires the Supreme Court to rule on any violations of election laws brought to its notice. It is unethical and wrong for anyone to question the legitimate role of the judiciary in a democracy.

You have come a long way, having worked very hard. Are you disappointed at not being able to become President?

A - Yes, in a way. I possess a vision and programme of work for the country which I believe the others do not have. In that respect I am disappointed. Nevertheless, I am happy that Yameen, a person with enough political, ministerial and administrative skills, has been elected Head of State. Of course if I was President, I would have done things differently. However, now that my party is a member of the government I will extend my fullest support since the interest of the country will always come first for me.

The Maldivian economy is in very bad shape. How does the new government of Abdullah Yameen of which the Jumhorree party led by you is a constituent, hope to revive it?

A - It,will take time because of the damage caused by the Nasheed administration's short-sighted policies,which in some instances was anti national. The trust of the international financial community has to be re-established and once that is achieved, I believe the economy will pick up.

Your national debt is nearly 70 percent of GDP and the Finance Ministry submitted a record 2014 budget of MVR 17.5 billion (US$ 1.1 billion) with a projected deficit of 2.2 percent of GDP. Bridging these gaps are easier said than done?

A - There is politicaI stability now. I am confident President Yameen will be able to revive the economy, minimise national debt and also control the budget deficit.

It is said that government expenditure, including the salaries and perks of Ministers, Parliamentarians and public servants are very high.Do you intend reducing such expenses?

A - The Jumhoree Party will support the government in implementing its policies. The President has taken a 50 percent salary cut and has proposed a reduction in the remunerations of Ministers and MP's. But I do not think much can be done in the case of public servants since the cost of living remains high with the Rufiya depreciating against the US Dollar. I agree that State expenditure has to be reduced but it would be a difficult task. The approach should be to increase revenue while combatting corruption, which would result in a huge saving.

The lease agreement between the Nasheed government and the Indian company GMR, which gave it control of the Ibrahim Nasir International Airport for 25 years, was cancelled by his successor President Waheed. The issue is yet to be resolved with GMR instituting legal action in a Singapore Court?

A - Well, I believe the ruling should be in our favour because the lease agreement with GMR was very unfavourable to the Maldives. That is why our Parliament rejected it. An illegal agreement cannot be sustained. No leader has the right to unilaterally dispose of the country's assets.

You said during the Election campaign that the Nasheed government allegedly siphoned off millions of dollars.Will you be inquiring into it?

A – What I said is contained in the Auditor General's Report. The Maldives has an independent Prosecutor General. So, it is up to him to probe the corruption allegations.

We are told that you had a tough childhood. How did you overcome the many challenges to be a success in life?

A - It's a long story but to put it briefly, my mother passed off when I was 39 days old and my father went blind when I was around four years. While my grandmother looked after me, it was an aunty of mine who also had an infant child, that breast fed me.

After schooling for about four years in my home island Dhidhdhoo, I worked as a domestic aide. When I was ten years old my grandmother passed off. Thereafter I pleaded with my father to take me to Male to study, but he said I was too young to move to a far off Island. Eventually he agreed, but on arriving in Male, I did not study but worked as a domestic aide once again. After a few years, I got back to my studies and followed courses in Business Accounting. From then on it was sheer hard work, which led to my business interests growing into what it is today. My goal in life is to improve the living standards of all Maldivians and make my country a heaven on earth.





Three fishing trawlers of Indian fishermen out of the six boats taken into Custody by the Navy.

By Madura Ranwala

The Navy yesterday arrested 25 Indian fishermen along with six trawlers while they were poaching in Lankan waters despite recent talks both countries had over illegal fishing and swapping of fishers in their custody.

Navy spokesman Commander Kosala Warnakulasuriya said, "We were compelled to make the arrest since the Indian fisherman were poaching well within the Sri Lanka's territorial waters. "Wanton bottom trawling resorted to by Indian poachers has caused enormous damage to the marine ecology in the Palk Bay destroying fish breeding grounds."

Naval vessels attached to the Northern Command arrested poachers on routine patrol and the suspects had been handed over to the Inspectors of the Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources in Jaffna for legal action, the Commander said.





The UNP yesterday appealed to all Tamil parties to unite in the run-up to the next Western Provincial Council Election (WPCE), without walking into a trap laid by the government for them go it alone and end up with no seats.

National List UNP MP, R. Yogarajan addressing a press conference in Colombo, said that the Rajapaksa regime had encouraged the National Union of Workers (NUW), Up Country People's Front (UPF) and the Democratic People's Front (DPF) to contest the next WPCE under their respective party symbols and also helped them with campaign funds.

Even the CWC which was aligned to the government was planning to go it alone, he noted adding that they would realise their folly once the results were announced.

The MP recalled that in 2009 there had been no Tamil representation in the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council since the UPF, DPF and NUW had contested separately. But, at the 2013 poll when the CWC, UPF and DPF joined forces, they had got two seats, one each from Ratnapura and Kegalle.

By going their separate ways once again, the Tamil parties would be repeating the mistake they had made in Sabaragamuwa at the 2009 election. Yogarajan cautioned them not to fall for the devious methods employed by the government.

Yogarajan observed that in contrast the UNP had offered good and well meaning advice to the Tamil parties.





Two Sri Lanka Under-19 players selected for the ICC Youth World Cup have been diagnosed with chicken pox in the immediate aftermath of the cricket camp held in Hambantota, according to sources close to the team.

Top order batsman Hashan Dumindu of Gurukula College, Kelaniya and middle order batsman Thilaksha Sumanasiri of S. Thomas' College, Mount Lavinia, are the two players diagnosed with the disease.

The team management has decided to vaccinate the rest of the squad in consultation with their parents, after symptoms were detected in the two players on consecutive days.

The 15-member squad selected for the World Cup ended more than a week long cricket camp at Hambantota, late last week. The team will play a short series against Australia Under-19 prior to the Youth World Cup.





The new Maldivian President Abdullah Yameen accompanied by first lady First Lady Fathimath Ibrahim and a high level Ministerial delegation, arrived in colombo yesterday for a three day state visit.

Diplomatic sources said that a highlight of Yameen's first visit to Colombo since being elected President would be the finalization of three bilateral agreements and his address to a high profile Forum organized by the Sri Lanka-Maldives Business Council, which would discuss ways to enhance trade and investment ties.

The fact that the visiting Head of State had chosen Colombo as his second official destination since he assumed office, indicated the importance he had place on strengthening the historic and friendly relations that existed, they pointed out.

Yameen was in New Delhi recently where he engaged in building bridges, after relations between the two nations had soured due to the cancellation of a lease agreement that gave India's GMR control of the Male International Airport for 25 years and allegations that India had interfered in the Maldivian Presidential Election.

The Presidential delegation would include Qasim Ibrahim Leader of the Jumhooree Party, Ahmed Siyam Mohamed, Leader of the Maldives Development Alliance, Foreign Minister Dunay Maumoon, Abdul Raheem Abdulla, Vice President of the Progressive Party of Maldives (PPM), Moosa Zameer,

Minority Leader of Parliament and Deputy Leader of the Parliamentary Group of the PPM, Ali Arif, Chief Whip of the Parliamentary Group of the PPM, President's Office Ministers Mohamed Hussain Shareef and Abdulla Ameen, Police Chief Hussain Waheed and Foreign Secretary Ali Naseer Mohamed and the High Commissioner to Sri Lanka Hussain Shihab.

The sources revealed that the agreements to be signed between Sri Lanka and the Maldives pertained to cooperation in the Police, vocational and sports sectors. Among the other areas expected to figure in the high level bilateral consultations would be combating the drug menace, health, maritime security, trade and tourism.

A welcome ceremony for the visiting Head of State and his delegation will be held at the Presidential Secretariat in Colombo, followed by a State luncheon hosted by President Rajapaksa and Sri Lankan First Lady Shirathi Rajapaksa at the President's House. Yameen would also take the opportunity to meet the Maldivian community in Sri Lanka, they noted.

Yameen's itinerary includes talks with President Mahinda Rajapakasa and key government Ministers and officials. It was not clear if he would hold discussions with any Opposition party leaders, the sources said adding that the visiting leader was scheduled to pay floral tributes at the War Heroes Memorial in Kotte.





State-run SriLankan Airlines is seeking at least 275 million US dollars in foreign financing, a top official said as the airline is on track to acquire new Airbus aircraft.

Sri Lanka's state has promised a 500 million US dollar injection to the airline over five years to recapitalize the airline.

Chief executive officer Kapila Chandrasena says the airline had already received 225 million US dollars over two years but the airline needed 'front ended' financing for its business plan.

The government's remaining financing commitment of 275 million US dollars could be converted to quicker cash through foreign financing, he said.

SriLankan has made losses and it has devised a business plan involving the acquisition of a fuel efficient Airbus A330 and A350 fleet in a bid to return to profitability. "To execute the business plan in time we are looking at bridging options," Chandrasena said.

"We have received 225 million of the 500 mn as Treasury bonds. We want to utilize the balance available in the time it is needed in the business."

"Sowe are going and raising debt as a bridging facility."

Sri Lanka's The Sunday Times newspaper said aviation minister Priyankara Jayaratne has sought approval from the Cabinet of Ministers to raise up to 325 million US dollars from a bond issue and syndicated loan with an additional 50 million US dollar Treasury guarantee.

A 275 million US dollar bond issue will be used to make advance payments for Airbus aircraft, the newspaper said.

Standard Chartered Bank is to syndicate another 150 million US dollar international loan with the guarantee and use 130 million US dollars to pay down an existing loan arranged by Dubai-based Mashreq Bank, the report said.

"We are talking to some international banks, investments houses in order to find what the most optimum mechanism is for Sri Lankan," Chandrasena said without elaborating on details.

"On this we are encouraged that the markets are liquid. We are looking at the least cost option. Loans or any other instruments are considered."





Over 150 lucky winners carried away many exciting prizes at the recently held grand draw of the "Laojee Thun Musuwe Wasanawa" consumer promotion.

Prizes worth Rs. 3 million including Scooty Peps, gold coins, sewing machines and many more consolation prizes were given away to the lucky winners at a ceremony held at the Unilever Sri Lanka office premises

"Laojee offers a great cup of tea, rich in taste, derived by the perfect combination of strength, colour and aroma. This Thun Musuwa has brought Laojee closer to the hearts of Sri Lankans. The overwhelming participation of consumers further established that Laojee is truly the "People's Choice" says Manindri Bandaranayake, Category Head – Beverages, Unilever Sri Lanka.

Commenting on winning a sewing machine, Lalani Caldera of Polgasovita said that she switched to Laojee about 2 years ago for the great taste and colour it offers and has been a loyal consumer since then. Joining her was Irine Voudewyn of Kandy who says the sewing machine she won will be a catalyst in starting her own business. Lerangana Basnayake of Badulla, a regular Laojee consumer who won a gold coin said that as someone who is living in an area with tea plantations, he found Laojee's taste to be perfect. Iresha Lakmali, an undergraduate of the University of Sri Jayawardenapura who hails from Galle, said that she found the Scooty Pep she won to be very useful in saving time in her busy schedule.





NEW DELHI, January 21: Five years after construction began, and after more than a year of rigorous trial runs, India's first monorail from Chembur to Wadala received a final safety certification on Monday after a three-tier process, allowing the mass transit corridor to be opened for public use.

The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), the implementing agency for the project, is now in the process of submitting the certification documents with the opening rules to the state government. The state will then decide when the monorail should be commissioned.

Ashwini Bhide, Additional Metropolitan Commissioner at the MMRDA, said: "We received the formal safety certification report today. It allows us to start commercial operations. We are submitting the safety certificate to the state government as it has to give a final go-ahead."

RC Garg, former chief commissioner of railway safety, has granted the final safety certificate for the 8.8-km Chembur-Wadala monorail, which will have seven stations, after a three-day inspection of the corridor that started last Monday.

Other vital documentation essential for the commissioning of the corridor is also being finalised. "The notification for opening rules for the corridor has gone for publication in the gazette. The commercial rules have also been approved and will be published in two days. It is all clear for the monorail now," Bhide added.





Not being a lawyer or a student of Latin, I was unaware of the term obiter dictum until Mr. Somapala Gunadheera - a regular writer - mentioned in his letter in the Opinion column of 'The Island, of January 16, 2014.

After getting the meaning of obiter dictum from the same source, I was wondering whether the Chief Minister came out with another obitur dictum when he handed over gifts only to Hindus in prison.

He is the CM not only of the Hindus, but also of Christians and Buddhists as well.





The Negombo Magistrate on Monday remanded two suspects aged 21 and 23 till February 3 for operating a dud currency racket at Dalupotha in the Negombo police area.

The suspects were arrested with 288 dud notes of Rs. 5,000 denomination.

The Police media unit told The Island that the Negombo police had arrested one suspect with a Rs. 5,000 dud note first and on information provided by him the other suspect had been taken into custody with the equipment used to print them.





In the wake of the environmentalist protest against land reclamation in Bellanwila-Aththidiya Bird Sanctuary, Wildlife chief said that the Wildlife Conservation Department (WCD) would allow development work in the marsh after demarcating the environmentally sensitive area.

DWC, Director General H.D. Ratnayake told The Island yesterday that his department had already started to recognise the highly sensitive area of the marshland to protect the sanctuary claiming that they were not aware about such reclamation conducted by the Land Reclamation and Development Authority (LRDA).

"We knew it after the environmentalists had started to protest against reclamation. Then the authority informed us about the reclamation and at present we have stopped the development work," he said adding that the land filling had been conducted by the government authorities.

The DG noted that 95 percent of lands there were private owned and most of the area have already populated.

"There are government buildings, houses and a temple that have already constructed and we cannot remove them now," Ratnayake stressed.

After recognising the environmentally sensitive area, the department would allow irrigation department and LRDA to resume the development activities, he said.

Meanwhile senior environmental lawyer Jagath Gunawardena alleged that the Wildlife Department had known about the filling of the sanctuary as they had issued letters to the land reclamation earlier on the matter.

He questioned, what would happen to the area which had already been filled by the LRDA?

Gunawardena also said it was acceptable to make foot paths in a marsh but land filling should not be permitted. Footpath should be gravel and lighting should be prohibited as it could damage the propagating behaviors of the birds.

Making footpaths was a good move as it would allow people to enjoy the scenic beauty of the sanctuary, but the area should be closed at night, he stressed.

According to environmentalists, an extent of over one and half hectares within the sanctuary had already been filled by LRDA, posing a threat to the rich bio- diversity of the area.

The Bellanwila-Attidiya marsh with an extent of 372 hectares was declared a sanctuary on July 25, 1990 and it was one of the richest bio diversity areas among the wetlands in the country. It had 168 species of birds, 44 species of fish, 72 species of butterflies, 37 species of dragonflies, 30 species of reptiles and about 150 to 200 species of plants. It was also one of the 41 wetlands with highest biodiversity as named by the Asian Wetlands Directory in 1989.





The two names for the Davis Cup Asia-Oceania Zone Group-II Round 1 tie between hosts Sri Lanka and Philippines have now been named. The tie is to be held from Jan. 31 to Feb. 2 at the SLTA hard courts, Colombo.





'1421: The Year China Discovered the world'

Book Review

January 21, 2014, 5:53 pm

By Gavin Menzies

Reviewed by Dr. Rohan H. Wickramasinghe

(Member, Executive Committee, Sri Lanka China Society)

This book was published in 2002 and is not unknown to the reading public of Sri Lanka. However, many have not, in fact, read it and, given the staggering implications of its contents, it should be better known at least among those interested in world history and politics.

But, firstly, some words as to how the book '1421' came into being. Information as to this was gleaned from the book and other sources.

Rowan Gavin Paton Menzies was born in London, England in 1937 and was taken by his parents to China at the age of three weeks. He spent two years in China (n.b. a very different country to what it is today). He went to school in London, England and left in 1953 at the age of fifteen years to join the Royal Navy. He was in submarines from 1959 to 1970 and commanded HMS Rorqual from 1968 to 1970. He travelled widely during his service with the submarines.

In connection with his preparation of '1421' (which took fourteen years) he visited some 120 countries and more than 900 museums and libraries. He acknowledges contact during his researches with a very large number of persons, including Dr. Tao Jingyi for Sino-Sri Lankan relations. He also acknowledges his Italian wife, Marcella, who owns a real estate agency, for support and the finances to pay for his research. The book is dedicated to her.

In the course of his researches, Menzies had accumulated a large quantity of information, which he proceeded to try to assemble in book form. The resulting product, he frankly admits, was as dry as dust. Following advice of his agent, Menzies obtained the services of a ghost writer to rework the material into much more readable form. When the work was somewhat advanced, Menzies gave a lecture in London in March 2002 at the Royal Geographical Society of which he was a Fellow. This was preceded by an article in the London 'Daily Telegraph'. The advance publicity included mention of Zheng He's "eunuch captains, whose severed treasures were kept in jewelled boxes ready to accompany them to the next world." Accounts of the talk generated huge interest worldwide and his agent sent the first 190 pages of the manuscript to several publishers. The first offer of an advance of 500,000 GBP was accepted. (The publisher had also published the book, the 'Da Vinci Code'.) This quantum of advance is very large for a work of this nature. Some 130 people at the publishers worked on preparing and packaging the book.

The rest is now history. Some one million copies of the book were sold by 2006 in over 100 countries in 20 different languages. It generated considerable criticism and opposition in certain quarters such as those incensed by views like a) the Chinese sailed to the Americas before Christopher Columbus, b) the Chinese went to Australia before Captain Cook and c) the Maoris of New Zealand are the product of the mingling of the genes of Melanesian slaves and Chinese prostitutes. One scholar wrote threatening to sue for misrepresentation for listing the book under 'history' and not as 'fiction'. Another scholar said 'The man is barking mad'.

Whatever ones views on the accuracy of the information as set out, it cannot be denied that the book makes fascinating reading. The brief account which follows gives a bare outline of what Menzies reported of the Chinese voyages and some associated details. It omits accounts of the investigations, which resemble a detective story. It needs to be noted here that the controversies which have arisen do not relate to the Chinese travels in the Indian Ocean region. They relate rather to those further afield such as the Americas and Australia. The controversies are, in part, due to the claims that the well established voyages of Columbus, Vasco da Gama, Magellan and Cook were facilitated by maps based on those prepared by earlier Chinese explorers.

The first chapter gives an outline of China's history immediately prior to the Chinese New Year Day on 2 February 1421. On that day the heads of twenty eight states and other envoys from Asia, Arabia, Africa and the Indian Ocean gathered in Beijing to greet Ming Emperor Zhu Di and attend the inauguration of the Forbidden City. (n.b. In this connection it is interesting to note that the Chinese People's Association for Friendship with Foreign Countries, CPAFFC, formed by Chairman Mao Zedong on the initiative of Premier Zhou Enlai, has links with nearly 500 NGOs and institutions in 157 countries and will celebrate its 60th anniversary in May this year.)

Zhu Di was a son of the first Ming Emperor and had played a significant role in driving out the Mongols from China. After the fall of the city of Kunming in Yunnan Province, adult defenders were killed and adolescent boys were castrated. Those eunuchs who survived were taken into the armies or kept as servants. One such was Zheng He (also sometimes referred to as Ma He, Cheng Ho or Ma San Bao), a Muslim and soldier who became Zhu Di's right hand man. (A hypothesis has been proposed that the fictional voyages of Sinbad the Sailor were based on those of Ma San Bao in the Indian Ocean.) When Zhu Di was assigned to Ta-tu, the former Mongol capital, which he renamed Beijing, he took Zheng He with him. In 1402, Zhu Di marched on and took Nanjing and made Zheng He Grand Eunuch. Soon after, Zhu Di expanded the Longjiang shipyards of Nanjiang and made Zheng He the Commander-in-Chief of the fleet. The fleet numbered over 3500 vessels plus 250 gigantic nine-mastered treasure ships.

The ships of this fleet were those in which the foreign envoys set sail for home on 3 March 1421 after a month of festivities. The huge ships presented a magnificent sight with immense sails of blood-red silk.

The ships could stay at sea for over three months. There were facilities for the production of food and the desalination of sea water. Dogs were bred both to provide food and to hunt rats. Trained sea otters were used in fishing while pigeons were used to carry messages home. The interpreters travelling with the fleet could communicate in seventeen different Indian and African languages, including Arabic, Hindi, Persian, Swahili and Tamil. A variety of research activities, including those on medicinal herbs, formed a key element of the voyages.

Menzies notes that very many of the crew who departed that day would never return to China. Of those who did not die or were not shipwrecked, some were left to set up colonies in the countries they visited. Since some ships were away for some two and a half years, memories of home were limited in certain cases to scented rose plants with which they shared their water rations.

While Zheng He had made expeditions previously, those which were under his overall command in 1421 were the most important. One was a fleet under the command of Grand Eunuch Yang Qing which had set sail a month before the others and, after taking home the envoys from the Gulf states, engaged in research in the Indian Ocean. It returned in September 1422 after perfecting a method of determining longitude.

The main fleet, which set sail a month later, divided into four units on reaching Sumatra. The smallest was under Zheng He and, after returning envoys to south-east Asia, returned to China in November 1421.

The remaining three fleets were commanded respectively by Grand Eunuch Hong Bao, Eunuch Zhou Man and Admiral Zhou Wen. These fleets sailed for Calicut in Kerala. There they separated to return the envoys, who had been assigned to them, to their homes in East African countries and then rendezvoused off Mozambique. The fleets then proceeded round the Cape of Good Hope and travelled north up the west coast of Africa under the influence of winds and ocean currents to reach the Cape Verde Islands by September 1421. (A carved stone has been found in the Cape Verde Islands similar to that left by the Chinese earlier at Dondra Head.)

From the Cape Verde Islands, the three fleets sailed towards the Americas and separated when they reached the Caribbean. Those of Admirals Hong Bao and Zhou Man sailed southwest towards South America and that of Admiral Zhou Wen northwest to North America.

The fleets of Hong Bao and Zhou Man passed by the coast of Brazil and sailed south to southern Argentina. A map suggests that the Chinese discovered Antarctica and the South Shetland Islands well before the first Europeans. The Chinese selected the stars Canopus and the Southern Cross for determining latitude and navigation respectively in the southern hemisphere.

From this point the fleets of Hong Bao and Zhou Man appear to have separated. Hong Bao went through the Straits of Magellan and south to Antarctica and home eastwards via Malacca and Calicut. Zhou Man went westwards through the Pacific Ocean and by way of the Spice Islands.

Hong Bao approached Antarctica in order to get under Crucis Alpha, the leading star of the Southern Cross, for studies to determine the Magnetic South Pole. From Antarctica, they sailed to the Kerguelen Islands and thence to Australia, possibly making landfall south of Perth. From Perth, Hong Bao sailed northwest and returned home on 22 October 1423 after passing through the South China Sea.

Zhou Man on the other hand went westwards. After Tierra del Fuego, his fleet was carried north by the Humboldt and equatorial currents along the coast of Chile as far as Peru and Ecuador. Then the currents took them across the Pacific Ocean to the Tuamotu archipelago. At Samoa, the fleet split in two. One part went north to New Guinea and the Philippines. The other went south to Norfolk Island and subsequently to Australia in the vicinity of Sydney. Menzies notes that the Chinese were aware of the existence of Australia at least since the Sui dynasty (589-618 A.D.).

It is suggested that from Australia Zhou Man sailed to Campbell Island and thence to New Zealand. The currents and winds then brought him back to Australia and he sailed north up the Great Barrier Reef. He then sailed to the Spice Islands, crossed the Pacific Ocean once again to Vancouver Island in Canada, sailed south to Ecuador and eventually returned to China.

Admiral Zhou Wen's fleet explored northern waters. In October 1421 he set off from the Cape Verde Islands towards the Caribbean and approached Guadeloupe and Dominica around 26 November 1421. The waters off Florida were treacherous for the junks of Zhou Wen's fleet and some may have been wrecked and abandoned. Some of the crew and concubines of wrecked junks may have been left to form colonies along the Atlantic coast of North America. Menzies suggests that 'New England' is rather 'New China'.

Zhou Wen divided his fleet on leaving New England. One part sailed east and, by way of the Azores, Cape Verde Islands and the Indian Ocean, made its way home. The other detail went further north and around the top of Greenland. The objective of this journey could have been the use of Polaris in determining the absolute position of the North Pole. They may have reached the North Pole if the Arctic waters were free of ice at the time of their visit. Zhou Wen's journey home to China may have taken place by way of the north coast of Siberia and the Bering Strait.

The five voyages described above came to successful conclusions despite great losses of ships and men. They greatly advanced Man's knowledge of the world we live in. However, all this knowledge was for a long time lost due to an unforeseeable disaster which struck the Forbidden City on 9 May 1421 barely two months after Zheng He had departed. Lightning struck the palace and the resulting fire destroyed a large portion of the Forbidden City. Emperor Zhu Di fell ill and eventually passed away on 14 August 1424. Internal politics at the court between the eunuchs and the mandarins ensured that voyages of treasure ships were henceforth stopped and the records and details of those which had been accomplished were destroyed. The admirals returning from successful voyages were humiliated with the exception of Zheng He, who remained as imperial harbour master in Nanjing and was allowed a final voyage to Mecca. Overall, China retreated into a long and self-imposed isolation from the outside world.

The foregoing review mainly gives just the bare outline of the Chinese voyages which commenced in 1421. Menzies has provided voluminous details from a variety of fields in support of his thesis that Chinese fleets discovered many lands before the European explorers. While praising the European explorers for their efforts, he notes that this was achieved with the help of maps probably constructed by the Chinese. If, as someone has claimed, this book is fiction, it is remarkably well done and should be read on this score at least. One should also emphasize that Zhenghe He's visits to Sri Lanka and countries of the Indian Ocean have long been matters of historical record and no fiction.





Paceman turned left-arm spinner Ravindu Pushpaka picked up a five wicket haul to lead Lumbini College to a five-wicket victory over Joseph Vaz College, Wennappuwa in the Under-19 tournament cricket encounter at BRC Ground in Colombo yesterday. A regular paceman, Pushpaka bowled spin to fill the absence of left-arm spinner Janith Dias yesterday and his five-wicket haul provided the key for them to restrict Joseph Vaz to 101 runs in the second essay. Chasing a target of 124 runs to win Tharushan Iddamalgoda and Wasana Madusanka scored unbeaten 20s for them to reach the target with five overs to spare.

Commencing the second essay with a deficit of 82 runs, Bandaranaike College, Gampaha were in deep trouble losing seven wickets for 86 but a valiant eighth wicket stand of 72 runs between Pasindu Jayasinghe (77 in 57 balls with 8x6s) and Bathiya Hettiarachchi (10 n.o. in 50 balls) helped them force a draw to their U-19 match against St. Servatius' College at Uyanwatta Stadium yesterday.





Never has our country been disgraced and humiliated with such shoddy and deplorable tactics and antics as displayed by the cricketers in the Sharjah Test against Pakistan, which ended on Monday.

For starters, Mathews employed negative methods from day one. Their's was a run crawl which would have amused even Geoff Boycott. SL was content to play for a draw and had a defensive mindset right through the Test.

Pakistan captain Misbah-ul-Haq and young Azhar Ali with Sarfraz Ahamed chipping in, made the visitors grovel in their own negative pool of misery.

SL's 2nd Innings was a pathetic exhibition of aimless batsmanship. They averaged 2 runs per over and this mediocrity was revealed in full measure, when Pakistan took lease of the wicket. A declaration was never offered and Pakistan scalped the last wicket, 17 minutes after the lunch break.

The second spinner Dilruwan Perera was never given a bowl. Mathews was content to bowl Lakmal, Eranga, Herath and himself in threadbare tandem. Negative bowling was epitomized by Herath, who kept plugging on the leg stump, but Misbah caused merry havoc with reverse sweeps.

Field settings were resorted to slow down the game and Eranga was seen walking back to his mark like an old woman bent by picking sticks. The negativity was so odious that Mathews was warned repeatedly for slowing down the game. It was futile anyway, because it had been decided to play it to a finish.

Then was displayed the most dastardly behaviour imaginable when the fielders appealed for bad light. It was noticed that Mahela Jayawardena, who had twice been the winner of the Spirit of Cricket award was not amongst the rabble, but Sangakkara was.

A moot point that the selectors could address is that the team has as many as four wicket keeper-batsmen, thus shutting out an all-rounder or two.





The Commercial Bank of Ceylon began 2014 on a winning note, taking Gold and Silver for its corporate social responsibility initiativesin Education and Healthcare respectively at the JASTECA CSR Awards presented by the Japan Sri Lanka Technical & Cultural Association.

The Bank's multifaceted community programmes in the sphere of Education& Training received the JASTECA CSR Gold award, while its many initiatives in the sphere of Health were acknowledged with the Silver Award at the awards gala on January 17th.

This is the first occasion that the Commercial Bank participated in the JASTECA CSR Awards competition.

The awards recognise the tangible impacts and sustainability of the programmes conducted by Commercial Bank in these two areas, under the guidance of the Bank's CSR Trust.

The 24-point evaluation used by the panel of eminent judges to assess the CSR projects considered for the JASTECA awards cover multiple aspects including community goodwill generated, social integration, social and environmental impacts, engagement of stakeholders, sustainability, fulfilment of objectives, engagement of public sector agencies, social compliance standards, conformity with values of communal harmony and respect for minorities, integration with business processes, environmental responsibility, budgets and continuity.

"These are aspects that receive a great deal of attention when the Bank selects and implements its community projects," Commercial Bank's Managing Director Mr. Ravi Dias said. "The Bank supports a well-defined, comprehensively-structured series of high priority initiatives that are in-sync with national needs and the Bank's own vision and mission, and provides its CSR Trust with an annual budget that is linked to its net profit."

The JASTECA CSR Gold award presented to Commercial Bank is in recognition of its nationally significant initiative to present fully-equipped IT Labs to schools in all provinces of the country, the annual presentation of scholarships and laptops to undergraduates and a programme to help school children with better access to English language education. The Bank donated 43 IT Labs to 37 schools and six other institutions in the year ending 31st March 2013 and launched and completed the first of its English language programmes with the inaugural batch of 200 students. By the end of 2013, the Bank had provided English education to over 300 students. In the sphere of Health, the JASTECA CSR Silver Award acknowledges the donation of essential medical equipment to 15 hospitals in Sri Lanka during the period assessed for the award. The Bank concentrates mainly on donating medical equipment and other accessories and refurbishing maternity and paediatric wards.





K. Prabagaran followed up his first round seven under par with a two under par 69 to lead the field by three strokes from N. Thangaraja who shot a magnificent 7 under par. Thangaraja fired eight birdies on the 6th, 7th, 9th, 10th, 12th, 13th, 14th and 15th to be 8 under for the second round but mishit his tee shot on the 17th to record the single bogey for the day and end up with 7 under and stand in solitary 2nd place on 6 under par 3 strokes behind Prabagaran.

The defending champion Anura Rohana having won the Sri Lanka Open Championship in 2005, 2006, 2007, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 is set to extend his wins for a record 8th time which will be unprecedented. Anura Rohana returned to Sri Lanka in the early hours of Monday morning after participating in the Thailand King's Cup in the PGTI where he made the cut and finished in the 63rd place. Anura Rohana followed up his even par first round with a five under 66 to stay well in contention four strokes off the lead. Mithun Perera looking for his first SL Open Championship win played steady golf to card a 68 following up on his first day 69 to join Anura Rohana in 3rd place 4 strokes behind the leader.

N. Ranga (69) and Tissa Chandradasa(70) were the only others to score below par. The youngsters maintained their composure and Sachin de Silva returned an even par 71 to beat Zaffar Sikkander by 2 strokes among the amateur members to win the 3rd UTE Cat Challenge Trophy for men.

The UTE-Cat Challenge Trophy was well contested with 44 players in the field and the top five producing four youngsters. Sanjeewa Wickramanayake was the only 'senior' in the top 5, in 4th place among Sachin, Zaffar, Prashan and Ishira. Sachin de Silva completed the double by returning the two round best aggregate net score of 138.

The youngster challenge of Sachin and Zaffarin the UTE-Cat Sri Lanka Open Championship is extremely encouraging with both players in 6th and joint 9thplace respectively. The cut-off was applied at 165 with 41 players qualifying to continue in the four-round Open Championship. Zen Darmaratne carded an even par 71 while Arumugam lost his joint 2nd place on the first day with a round of 76. Senior citizen G. Harissonshot, 72, to be in joint 15th place with Padmanathan the VGC Pro. The final qualifier to make the cut was veteran senior citizen R. Premaratne (Navy Pro) at 165.

The Challenge at the top of the leader board seems quite stiff and an exciting 3rd round of golf is expected.

The Pam Fernando Challenge Trophy will get underway today (22nd) with 20 amateur ladies in the fray.





NDB extended its reach within the island with the opening of its 79th branch in Balangoda; offering a wide range of financial services to residents of a thriving agrarian expanse.

Nourished by the renowned 'Samanla' tank, the opulent soil of Balangoda produces bountiful crops of paddy and vegetable. The industrious farming community in the region continue to strengthen the Sri Lankan economy with diverse agrarian produce, that contributing to national production. The rich mineral deposits of Calcite, Feldspar, Dolomite and Kaolin found in Balangoda soil further enhances the industrial potential of the area. The town is home to many small and medium businessmen and traders who with their contribution towards the industrial activity play a significant role in the economic development of Sri Lanka. NDB stepped into Balangoda with the aim to empower its people and support them to propel the economic development of the town with a diverse range of banking products and financial expertise.

To the small and medium entrepreneurs in BalangodaNDB's new branch will offer a range of SME financing facilities including; industry specific credit facilities, short term working capital loans, supplier and distributor financing and long term funding coupled with advisory services in the areas of banking, industry knowledge, wealth creation as well as capital management.

With its new branch in Balangoda, NDB will also focus on developing the micro entrepreneurs and cottage industrialists in the region through its livelihood development scheme 'DiviAruna'; which promotes financial inclusion for the smaller enterprises in a bid to develop and upgrade them towards the SME sector. The Bank laid an initial step towards this long term endeavour with the distribution of DiviAruna Micro Finance Loan Schemes to deserving individuals engaged in agricultural industries and other cottage industries; at a special ceremony held subsequent to the unveiling of the new branch.





Following the arrest of 25 Indian fishermen in six trawlers, Minister of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources, Dr. Rajitha Senaratne yesterday told The Island that the Indian Central Government was aware of the threat their fishermen posed to Lankan fishermen by poaching and destroying the fish resources that belonged to Sri Lankans by using banned methods such as bottom trawling.

He alleged that the Indian fishermen were using aggressive fishing methods that destroyed the entire fish crop including fingerlings to be harvested later.

This came to light when Minister Senaratne held talks with his Indian counterpart Sharad Pawar last week on swapping the fishermen arrested by the Indian and Lankan navies for poaching.

Indian fishermen during the last few days had come up to the coastal belt of Sri Lanka destroying the nets laid by Lankan fishermen. Therefore, he had instructed Navy to arrest them to end the menace.

Minister Senaratne warned Lankan fishermen not to stray into Indian waters while protesting against poaching by Indian fishermen.





Focus on Sri Lanka's achievements at Blue Economy Summit in the Emirates

January 21, 2014, 6:55 pm

Sri Lanka's progress in many sectors of ocean-related development offers a striking example of a national agenda productively linked to international programmes for strengthening the Blue Economy, Professor G.L. Peiris, Minister of External Affairs, said in Abu Dhabi over the weekend.

He was delivering a keynote address at the Blue Economy Summit held in the United Arab Emirates.

The minister explained to the extensive international audience the use which Sri Lanka has made of peace consequent on the defeat of terrorism, to advance a variety of objectives forming an integral part of the global agenda to integrate the Blue Economy into post-2015 development objectives. Among the major areas dealt with by Prof. Peiris were fisheries and their vital role in providing food security and sustainable livelihoods, tourism as a source of employment and a significant contributor to poverty alleviation, the generation of renewable energy from wind and biomass sources and the oceans as a primary medium of global trade through shipping and port facilities.

He showed how each of these topics, which represented the basic themes of the international symposium, could be illustrated in practical terms by Sri Lanka's experience during the last four years. Minister Peiris submitted that the atmosphere of stability which had been established in Sri Lanka, contributed in no small measure to the substantial success of initiatives in the region to combat aggressively a host of illegal activities connected with people smuggling, piracy, gun running and narcotics. The development of the Blue Economy on the lines envisaged by the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development in Rio de Janeiro in June 2012, is necessarily dependent on order and stability in the regime of the oceans, and continuing terrorist activity would have posed a formidable challenge to the accomplishment of these objectives, the Minister emphasized. The restoration of peace after a thirty year conflict gave Sri Lanka the opportunity to take advantage of its geographical location and to play a vigorous role, in partnership with other littoral States, to promote and safeguard the conditions essential for a viable strategy to improve living standards of increasing populations by harnessing the resources of the oceans, he said. Sri Lanka is at present an active member of several groupings of nations to strengthen collective action in this regard, he remarked.

Prof. Peiris also participated in a high level roundtable panel discussion which involved presentations on the Blue Economy from the perspective of different regions including the Pacific, the Caribbean and the Indian Ocean.

Among those participating in the Blue Economy Summit were Murray McCully, Minister of Foreign Affairs of New Zealand, Dr. Sultan Al Jaber, Minister of State of the United Arab Emirates, John W. Ashe, President of the 68th Session of the United Nations General Assembly, Jose da Silva, Director –General of the FAO, Jacques Andriantiana, Foreign Minister of Madagascar and Jean-Paul Adam, Foreign Minister of the Seychelles.





Rishad Bathiudeen (Minister of Industry and Commerce-second from left) at Indian Prime Minister Dr. Manmohan Singh's meeting with Commerce Ministers of SAARC countries on 18 January in New Delhi. Seated at centre are Anand Sharma (Indian Minister of Commerce and Industry and Textiles) and Dr. Manmohan Singh, the Prime Minister of India.

Rishad Bathiudeen (Minister of Industry and Commerce of Sri Lanka) was among the SAARC region's Commerce Ministers who was given an audience with no less than the Prime Minister of India, Dr. Manmohan Singh, on January 18 in New Delhi.

Minister Bathiudeen was a participant of Dr. Manmohan Singh's meeting along with Commerce Ministers of SAARC countries.

The SAARC Commerce Ministers were calling on Dr. Manmohan Singh after the conclusion of their fifth SAARC Business Leaders Conclave which closed on 17 January in New Delhi at K.K.Birla Auditorium, FICCI, New Delhi.

Minister Bathiudeen, led the Sri Lankan delegation consisting of Lankan officials and businessmen, and addressed the concluding session of fifth SAARC Business Leaders' Conclave (SBLC). The 17th January session saw informative debates among the participants and the prominent SAARC business attendees on how to solve issues and move regional B2B commerce forward, in the coming years.

The fifth SBLC, themed "South Asian Century: Progressing towards Regional Integration" was organised in New Delhi with the collaboration of Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) in partnership with Friedrich Naumann Foundation (FNF)'s Regional Directorate in New Delhi. More than 300 SAARC business personalities and top trade officials were in attendance at the event. The Secretary General SAARC, Ahmed Saleem, was also present at the SBLC.





The China Machinery Engineering Corporation (CMEC) should be held responsible for the never-ending problems at the coal-fired power plant at Norochcholai, a top Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) engineer said yesterday.

Newly appointed Ceylon Electricity Board Engineers Union (CEBEU) President Aluthge Janaka told The Island that though the maintenance/warranty period was over and the plant was under the CEB, the Chinese builder must take the responsibility for the current technical issues.

He said some breakdowns were usual at a newly constructed coal fired plant, however, but there was something terribly wrong with Norochcholai because ti broke down frequently.

Responding to our queries, a top official of the CMEC told The Island that China would do anything for Sri Lanka because the bond was so strong and he termed it a 'strong love affair' between the two countries.

He said that they were doing their utmost to keep the plant running though it was now under the CEB. "We were instructed during the CHOGM by our government officials to continue to provide assistance for that purpose."

Meanwhile, the team of Indian experts from Tamil Nadu who arrived Monday night was waiting for their equipment.

The Indian experts are expected to conduct 'Eddy Current' tests tomorrow at Norochcholai.

Additional General Manager (Generation) M.C. Wickramasekara told The Island that they would start off with 'Bullet Cleaning' or cleaning each and every pipe that would take about two days. They would also determine the cause of the problem.

The latest problem in the condenser tubes of the first coal fired power plant could not be taken lightly as in the event of up to 800 tubes being blocked out of the 16,000 there would be a major problem. By last week about 300 tubes had been blocked.

Three weeks earlier 80 such tubes were blocked and the plant was shut down for four days.

A senior engineer said: "The problem is that though there is an excess of tubes in place is it surprising that so many of them have been blocked within so short a period of time."

The problem occurred on January 10 making it the 26th breakdown since its launch, but in real terms it is the 30th time with four other slight hiccups which this newspaper exclusively reported.

The shutting down of Norochcholai has forced the 300MW Kerawalapitiya Plant to run at full capacity or to provide nearly 25 per cent of total power requirement, costing an additional Rs. 100 million per day, while the AES Kerawalapitiya is providing another 150MW costing another Rs. 80 million per day.





Softlogic Finance PLC announces that it has concluded what is probably the first ever medium term Cross Currency Swap with an Off-Shore counterpart, when they completed a four year transaction for USD 4,800,000- (aprox LKR 625,000,000-) with TCX. The transaction will enable Softlogic Finance to cover their interest rate risk exposure in respect of medium term lending products that include Leasing and Hire Purchase contracts which form the bulk of business for the company.

TCX is a special purpose fund that provides OTC derivatives to hedge the currency and interest rate mismatch that is created in cross-border investments between international investors and local borrowers in frontier and less liquid emerging markets. Their goal is to promote long-term local currency financing, by contributing to a reduction in the market risks associated with currency mismatches. TCX is owned by Global Development Financial Institutions that include IFC, FMO, DEG, JBIC, EBRD, Proparco.

The transaction is a groundbreaking deal and the first transaction for TCX in the Sri Lankan market although TCX had engaged a number of counterparts for some time to engineer their first transaction. Softlogic Finance had previously entered into a USD 10Million foreign currency borrowing transaction with FMO and was previously only able to hedge their foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk on a short-term basis due to the absence of medium term hedging alternatives in the local market. The transaction with TCX enabled the company to cover a fixed period of four years, thereby eliminating the mis-match and locking in the interest margins on fixed rate advances.









SLT PEO TV unveiled premiering super hit Hindi movies from last August attracting Hindi movie fans. PEO TV customers can enjoy the ease of watching these premieres over a weeks' time as and when they want without restricting themselves to set TV schedules loaded with paid commercials. Starting from "Go Goa Gone" and "Raanjhana", PEO TV has released many famous Hindi movies to its subscribers. Currently PEO TV has entered into partnerships with many Content owners to release more exciting movie premiers for year 2014. PEO TV recently rewarded the winners of the Go Goa Gone Movie Promotion held and customers received valuable LED TVs to enhance their TV experience. Speaking on behalf of SLT PEO TV, Malraj Balapitiya, Chief Executive Officer of SLT PEO TV said, "We have always offered unique experiences to our customers, as another first from PEO TV, we were managed to release many famous Hindi hits for the first time in Sri Lankan Television Screen such as "Raanjhana" and we will continue to offer more TV premieres in near future".





The Government Analyst had determined that the quantum of drugs recovered from former Officer in Charge of the Wellampitiya Police station contained one gramme and 16 milligrammes of heroin, the Colombo Crimes Division yesterday informed the Colombo Chief Magistrate court through a report.

When the case against the suspects former OIC Buwanekasiri Bandara Munasinghe, his wife Ranasinghe Arachchige Roshani Chandrakanthi, Ranasinghe Arachchilage Madusanka Kumara, Shahul Sitti Fatima Hasmila and Nizam Tuan Sharid was taken up before Additional Colombo Magistrate Nishantha Pieris, the CCD forwarded the determination of the Government Analyst.

CCD told the court that it had sought the advice of the Attorney General on the case and urged the court to re-remand the suspects.

Roshani Chandrakanthi, wife of the former OIC who was earlier remanded for allegedly aiding and abetting the husband in the drug business was ordered by the Magistrate to be enlarged on two sureties of one million each, while the other suspects were re-remanded till January 28.





Foreign Ministers of Sri Lanka and the Maldives have bilateral discussions

January 21, 2014, 9:49 pm

Prof Peiris with his Maldivian counterpart Ms. Dunya Maumoon

Professor G.L. Peiris, Minister of External Affairs, and Ms. Dunya Maumoon, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Maldives, held bilateral discussions at the Ministry of External Affairs on Tuesday.

These discussions reflected the special and warm relationship between the two countries.

Prof. Peiris, welcoming Ms. Maumoon on her first official visit to Sri Lanka as Foreign Minister, said that the recent political transition which took place in the Maldives, indicated the maturity and foresight of all parties concerned.

The two Ministers agreed on the need to intensify discussions within the already established mechanisms for structured bilateral dialogue.

The two Ministers expressed satisfaction that Memoranda of Understanding on a variety of issues such as health, youth and skills development, sports, combating crime and police training would be signed between the two countries during the State visit of President Abdulla Yameen of the Maldives to Sri Lanka.

Among the specific issues discussed were co-operation in education, food security, economic and trade relations, supply of fruit and vegetables to the Maldives through Mattala airport, employment and collaboration in the defence and fisheries sectors.

Prof. Peiris gave his counterpart in the new government of the Maldives a comprehensive update on political and economic developments in Sri Lanka.

The Ministers agreed that the vital interests of both countries would be served by the closest co-operation between them.





The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) recently went beyond its national scope by introducing a special programme for Maldivian directors on the subject of finance.

As businesses revolve round creating an impact among all stakeholders and eventually adding to shareholder value, the implications of finance could create major strides towards overall business growth. In keeping with this objective in mind, CA Sri Lanka educated the Board of Directors of the Male' Water and Sewerage Company (Pvt) Ltd on important areas in the field of finance.

The programme was titled 'Finance for Non-Finance Managers' and was conducted at the CA Sri Lanka premises in Colombo 7.

The main aim of the programme was to educate high senior managers of the company to understand the intricacies of finance which could significantly affect the development process of an organization.

Resource Person Hussain Moosajee, a corporate trainer who delivered the two day programme covered a multitude of areas including the role of a finance division amidst other functional divisions, understanding of financial accountings terms, balance sheet terminologies, cost analysis, comprehensive understanding of the three types of financial statements, why Investments decisions are important, and discounted cash flow vs. non-discounted cash flow methods.





"Sri Lanka is quickly emerging as a prominent contender within the region, we have demonstrated exceptional growth figures in the past four years. The political stability within Sri Lanka has attracted internationally reputed hotel chains such as Shangri-La, Hyatt and Mövenpick," Minister Dr. Amunugama said, adding that Singapore has always been an important centre for foreign investments in Sri Lanka.

There is growing interest among the new generation of investors in the Sri Lankan Capital Market. This forum will enhance those opportunities and will certainly help in fast tracking such investments to Sri Lanka.

He said so on the occasion of Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) and the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka (SEC), in association with Bloomberg Data services successfully hosting their first Foreign Investor Forum for 2014, in Singapore. The event was held on the January 21 at the Ritz Carlton, Millenia Singapore, which saw over 200 institutional investors, investment banks and financial advisors from Singapore and the region attending the forum, a CSE press release said.

It added: Senior Minister for International Monetary Corporation and Deputy Minister of Finance and Planning Dr. Sarath Amunugama and Governor of the Central Bank Ajith Nivard Cabraal made the keynote addresses.

'In order to provide regional investors with a broad analysis of the economic climate in Sri Lanka; Chanakya Dissanayake, Director & Sri Lanka Country Head of Copal Amba (A Moody's Subsidiary)made a presentation focusing on the expected returns from the Sri Lankan economy in the coming years.

'Following this comprehensive introduction to the Capital Market potential investors were made aware of the investment opportunities available within the growing Debt Market in Sri Lanka, in a subsequent fringe event. Assistant Governor, Central Bank of Sri Lanka C J P Siriwardena speaking at the event stated that Sri Lankan macro economic environment is stable and is conducive for Fixed Income investments. Vajira Kulatilaka Director CSE, , highlighted the concessions offered by the 2013 budget for companies listing Corporate Debt and the substantial funds raised through debt IPO's in 2013, exceeding US$ 529 Mn. They also spoke on the proposed launch of a Fixed Income trading platform for Government Securities in the coming year.





With the active support of JAT Holdings, motor racer Aamir Ghaffoor, who has emerged as Sri Lanka's youngest ever Formula McLarens 1300cc Speed Champion, has taken his winning streak to a new level, by clinching yet another title at the most exciting racing event of the year.

The Colombo Night Races held recently saw Ghaffoor battle it out on a whole new track for the Formula McLarens 1300cc championship yet again, and emerge night race winner in his class.

This year saw the 18-year-old rookie make a name for himself in the local racing arena, after he secured first position five out of six times at the three rounds of at the Speed Championship 2013 held at the Pannala race circuit.

Shortly after the intense final round at Pannala in November, Ghaffoor found himself anticipating his first night races.

"The track conditions were completely different compared to Pannala. The track temperature, heavy winds, a longer track, and driving in the night were all unfamiliar conditions that I had to adapt to," said the young racer, who was nevertheless more than excited to take on the new experience.

Despite the unfamiliar conditions and tough competition, Ghaffoor achieved pole position with a one second lead at the qualifying round on December 14.

"Race day was completely different though, the new track conditions were a real challenge to adapt to once again," he said, adding that the rain resulted in a slippery tarmac, which required more focus and complete control.

"There was a lot of spray with the heavy winds as well. The water would cover my visor and my visibility was tremendously reduced. There were times where I depended purely on previous knowledge of the track to know where a corner or a braking point was," said the racer, who first took to the track while pro-karting at the age of six.

The track conditions that night posed new challenges, causing him to lose a position at the start of the race. Ghaffoor however maintained his pace, and with a great degree of patience, managed to get himself back up to lead position in the fourth lap. "It's a great feeling to end this season with a win at the biggest racing event of the year," he said.

Of the eight races he participated in this year under the sponsorship of JAT Holdings, Ghaffoor has secured six first place podiums, and a third place podium.

"I am thankful to my sponsors, JAT Holdings, for supporting me this season and I am gratified to have been able to carry the JAT flag on my victory lap through the streets of Colombo at the Night Race," he said.

"In addition, I am proud to have been able to race for Team FMF (Flying Moto Factory) since I began racing in 2011, and will always be a proud ambassador of the team," Ghaffoor said.

"It was another great moment for JAT to see Aamir in his element and to witness this talented and self-confident young man receive his trophy for the hard work and dedication he has so tirelessly worked towards achieving. We had absolute faith in Aamir and his talent and we look forward to the next few years with him," said Aelian Gunawardene, Managing Director, JAT Holdings.





Trinity developed a stammer and a stutter but still succeeded in beating Dharmasoka by four wickets at Asgiriya.

If the Sokians were humbled on day one, they had improved beyond recognition in their second innings of 188. Sudhara Deshantha top-scored with 34, while five others made twenties. Sayer had four more (match bag of 8-91) while Sudaraka had match figures of 6-78.

The 78 runs needed should have been a walk in the park. However the Dharmasoka team, spearheaded by Kasun Maduranga (4-35) made the home team fight all the way. A good match on the whole, despite the early carnage.





FOCUS ON COSTLY PROPAGANDA 'BLITZ'

January 21, 2014, 5:55 pm

By Shamindra Ferdinando

In the wake of the then Premier Ranil Wickremesinghe and LTTE leader Velupillai Prabhakaran agreeing for direct negotiations under Norwegian facilitation in February, 2002, Norway launched a major NGO initiative to support the peace process.

The expensive NGO project was meant to ensure the success of the peace process. Norway obviously felt that a strong well-funded NGO grouping would be nothing but a necessity to support the peace initiative.

The multifaceted NGO project was geared to prop up the government and LTTE dialogue, overwhelm those critical of the peace process as well as to discourage nationalist sentiments among the majority community. The project also depicted the armed forces in a bad light. Norway brought together a powerful grouping to back the operation. The local media was inundated with articles supportive of the peace project. The Sri Lanka Broadcasting Corporation (SLBC) too, accommodated NGO agenda. The SLBC went to the extent of closing down the Vavuniya-based Vanni Sevaya radio operated for the benefit of the armed forces deployed in the Northern Province. In fact, the Wickremesinghe government put out Vanni Sevaya out of action within weeks after a Ceasefire Agreement (CFA) came into operation during the third week of February 2002 (Vanni Sevaya closed down 'The Island' April 7, 2002 edition). The government ignored a request made by the military to restore the services (Military wants Vanni Sevaya restored 'The Island' April 19, 2002). Instead the Defence Ministry directed the army not to issue daily situation reports, hence effectively depriving the people of knowing what was going on the ground behind the pretence of making peace.

The NGO grouping cleverly manipulated the media at the expense of national interests. A section of the state-owned media went to the extent of targeting the military. The then Eastern Naval Commander Rear Admiral Wasantha Karannagoda was ridiculed by the Independent Television Network (ITN) at the behest of the political leadership. Karannagoda earned the wrath of the government for what the political leadership felt was the Eastern Commander's hostility towards the peace initiative.

Norway lavishly poured funds in support of the NGOs pursuing its agenda. Norway was clearly of the opinion that positive coverage for the peace process would be helpful. Those driving the peace initiative bombarded the media with propaganda aimed at obscuring what was really happening on the ground. The Norwegian approach caused irreparable damage to the peace process. Co-chairs to the peace process, namely the US, Japan and the EU too, blundered by failing to rectify the doubtful Norwegian approach. The NGO grouping too did absolutely nothing to change the rapidly deteriorating situation. Those spearheading the NGO project turned a blind eye to the crisis. They felt no need to voice concerns as long as Norway periodically released funds. They continued to praise the peacemakers in spite of the rapid deterioration of the ground situation. Had they been frank in their assessments, perhaps the LTTE wouldn't have behaved so aggressively. Norway too, continued to mollycoddle the LTTE, which flaunted its military capability to those visiting the Vanni.

Culpability of NGOs

With a section of the international community pushing for an international war crimes probe over accountability issues unless the government addressed them ahead of the March UNHRC confab in Geneva, it would be relevant to discuss the culpability of the NGO sector in the eelam episode. The NGO project went awry due to those responsible for its implementation being only interested in safeguarding the interests of their sponsors and the LTTE. The Colombo based foreign news agencies and an influential section of the local media contributed to this faulty strategy. The 'side events' at Geneva would give Sri Lanka an opportunity to highlight the blundering NGO role, which also contributed to the collapse of the Norwegian initiative.

In Sept. 2011, Norway released a comprehensive report titled Pawns of Peace: Evaluation of Norwegian peace efforts in Sri Lanka from 1997 to 2009. The report shed light on the NGO project.

Christian Michelsen Institute (CMI) based in Bergen, a major recipient of Norwegian funds, led the evaluation of four separate peace efforts by Norway from 1997 to 2009. A nine-member evaluation team comprised CMI's Gunnar Sorbo, Jonathan Goodhand of the School of Oriental and African Studies (SOAS) in London and seven others, including four Sri Lankans. SOAS is part of London University (UK).The joint bid by the CMI and SOAS was chosen out of six international organisations which sought to secure the lucrative project. The CMI receives funding through the Research Council of Norway (NFR), which in turn is funded by the Norwegian Foreign Affairs Ministry and the Norwegian Ministry of Education and Research. Gunnar M. Sorbo, who had held several positions in several Norwegian institutions, including NFR and the Agency for International Development, now heads the CMI.

Had General Sarath Fonseka's army failed on the Vanni front there wouldn't have been a Norwegian investigation. The report in a special section titled Aid and Peace discussed the NGO costly project. Although NGO representatives had been involved in Norwegian initiatives in Sri Lanka with some receiving the blessings of the Norwegian Foreign Ministry for strategic reasons, none were directly involved in the Feb 2002 peace process at the time it got underway. Let me produce verbatim what the Norwegian investigation said regarding the expanding role of the NGOs: "However, they were invited for occasional meetings in the embassy and the foreign ministry in Oslo and when it became difficult for Norwegian diplomats to access the north, some of them played important roles in providing information about local developments. A Sri Lankan NGO network was established in Norway and the dialogue with the ministry was generally positive and fruitful."

The Norwegian report revealed that those who had been engaged in the peace process and related projects in support of the primary objective were funded to the tune of NOK 210 mn (approximately 28 mn US), between 2001 and 2004. Of the total funding, NOK 200 mn were received by ten organisations, including the Foundation for Co-Existence led by NGO guru the then darling of the Norwegians, Dr. Kumar Rupesinghe. According to the report, Rupesinghe's outfit received about NOK 35 mn (about 6 mn US between 2004 and 2008). The National Anti-War Front also led by Dr. Rupesinghe received substantial funding. Among the other recipients were the Centre for Policy Alternatives, One Text Initiative and the National Peace Council. Those receiving Norwegian grants were careful not to say anything critical of Norway's handling of the peace process here. They refrained from being critical of the LTTE for obvious reasons.

The Norwegians even funded the Tamil Rehabilitation Organisation (TRO), in spite it being a front for LTTE operations overseas.

Funding continues

Several other countries as well as organisations poured funds for NGOs during eelam war IV. Funding continued even after the conclusion of the conflict in May 2009. However, Norway cut off funds for Dr. Rupesinghe during the war after he switched his allegiance to President Mahinda Rajapaksa at the expense of the Norwegian project. Although Dr. Rupesinghe moved the judiciary demanding compensation from Norway amounting to Rs. 100 mn he couldn't expect to succeed as Norway enjoyed full diplomatic privileges and the government is unlikely to intervene on his behalf.

August 2006: Norwegian sponsored National Anti-War Movement conducts protest campaign in Colombo a few weeks before the government launched counter offensive in the Eastern Province.

The Centre for Policy Alternatives and National Peace Council which had been at the forefront of the Norwegian peace operation continued to receive substantial funding. Transparency International Sri Lanka is another major recipient of foreign grants during the 2008 to 2010 period. The CPA received Rs. 272.31 mn during the three-year period. The NPC and TI received Rs. 171.23 million and 174.79 million, respectively.

Of Rs. 618.33 million received by the CPA, NPC and TI during the three-year period, Rs. 111.48 million had been donated by various other sources not named above.

Although the Norwegian Embassy, in response to a query by 'The Island' declared that it had launched an initiative to ensure accountability in Norwegian funded projects, a comprehensive report of funding is not yet available. Norway as well as other sponsors nor the recipients had failed to explain how such huge sums of funds were spent to promote the peace process. They had never explained why their projects failed in spite of having unlimited funds.

The Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation (NORAD) has revealed that of NOK 2.5 billion spent on development cooperation during the period 1997 to 2009 in Sri Lanka, NOK 100 million was allocated for the peace process.

The European Commission (Rs. 55.61 million) and the Swedish International Development Agency (Rs. 43.11 million) are the second and the third major contributors.

The country's banking system has no records of the exact amount of funds received by NGOs over the past two to three decades. An enormous amount of funds had been received by NGOs since Feb. 2002, with some countries and the UNDP providing funds to the LTTE Peace Secretariat. The Secretariat for Coordinating the Peace Process (SCOPP) as well as Muslim Peace Secretariat too, received substantial funds. Those dispensing funds here actually didn't know what they were doing. Some provided funds to the LTTE to carry out de-mining operations, while the UNICEF funded a project to stop the forcible recruitment of child soldiers.

Those receiving Norwegian funding were lavish in their praise for the Norwegians. In May 2002, Dr. Jehan Perera, on behalf of the National Peace Council declared that the peace process would succeed because of Norwegian expertise. Perera stressed that the only difference between the abortive peace bid made by the then President Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga and Wickremesinghe's effort was the commitment of Norway. Perera was appearing on CNN on May 9, 2002 in the wake of his outfit receiving Rs. 2.8 mn from Japan to promote the Norwegian initiative. The NPC conveniently ignored the Norwegian role in 1994-1995. In fact, two Norwegians, Audun Holm and Johan Gabrielson met LTTE leader Velupillai Prabhakaran in Jaffna town during the first week of April 1995. They headed two peace monitoring committees out of four, but remained silent when the LTTE resumed hostilities with the sinking of two gunboats anchored at Trincomalee harbour on April 19.

October 2010: UNP chief Ranil Wickremesinghe with former Norwegian peacemaker Erik Solheim in Oslo after having met Dr. Gunnar Sorbo of the Chr. Michelsen Institute. Dr. Sorbo led the investigation into Norwegian peace initiatives in Sri Lanka.

Those promoting peace and negotiations have financially benefited in the other parts of the world. Those engaged in peace project in Sri Lanka being rewarded for their 'work' was definitely not an isolated situation. The May 2002 revelation that Norwegian ambassador in Tel Aviv, Mona Juul and her husband, Terje Roed Larsen (Norwegian Middle East envoy) accepted $ 110,000 from an Israeli peace centre for promoting negotiations between Israel and Palestine under the auspices of Norway highlighted the controversial transactions. Did any of Norwegians involved in the Sri Lankan project benefit personally? Did any Sri Lankan politicians and officials receive various perks and privileges for cooperating with NGOs?

Strategic miscalculation

Strangely, the NGO project didn't change its course even after the LTTE quit the negotiating table in April 2003, much to the discontent of Premier Wickremesinghe. The Norwegians and the NGO community acted as if the peace process was on track, though the LTTE made preparations for war. They did everything to appease the LTTE in accordance with the overall Norwegian plan to continue with the peace process at any cost. Even after the assassination of Foreign Minister Lakshman Kadirgamar on the night of August 8, 2005, the NGO project asserted that the Norwegian led process should continue, regardless of the killing. The NPC declared that the assassination of Kadirgamar was tragic, but inevitable. The statement highlighted the cavalier attitude of those who had been promoting a negotiated settlement here. For them, Kadirgamar's assassination meant nothing. The Norwegians remained silent on the issue as they pursued the peace bid. But today, thanks to Wiki Leaks, we know the Norwegians had no doubt about the responsibility of the LTTE for Kadirgamar's assassination. Wiki Leaks exposed a confidential diplomatic cable that dealt with talks between the Norwegians and LTTE theoretician Anton Balasingham in London, in the wake of Kadirgamar assassination.

In hindsight, it was obvious Western powers, the NGO communities both here and abroad as well as an influential section of the media propagated the myth that the LTTE couldn't be defeated on the battlefield, hence the GoSL had no option but to seek a negotiated settlement. They propagated the myth that peace at any cost was better than continuing with a costly military campaign. Their strategy remained on track even after the LTTE deprived UNP candidate Ranil Wickremesinghe of victory at the November, 2005 presidential election by ordering Tamil speaking people in the then temporarily merged Northern and Eastern Province to shun the vote. The TNA made the announcement on November 10, 2005 on behalf of the LTTE. The LTTE's strategy was simple. Prabhakaran believed that he had the wherewithal to overwhelm newly elected President Rajapaksa in a conventional military confrontation. Prabhakaran shunned President Rajapaksa's decision even to meet the LTTE in Geneva, as he was supremely confident of a battlefield victory. The rest is history.





Off-spinner Waruna Deshapriya bagged ten wickets as Richmond College, Galle beat Prince of Wales College, Moratuwa by seven wickets to clinch the Major A. P. M. Peiris Memorial Challenge Trophy in the Under-19 traditional cricket encounter at Moratuwa yesterday. It was also a tournament match and this was Richmond's fifth outright victory of the season.

In reply to Cambrians' 206 runs, the visitors scored 306 for eight declared as Pasindu Bimsara, Wanindu Hasaranga, Sithara Gimhana and Charith Asalanka made vital contributions with the bat. Bimsara was the top scorer as he anchored the late order with an unbeaten 85 runs (in 149 balls, 6x4s).

In their second essay, Shanuka Withanawasam resisted with a fighting knock of 61 runs but his 199-ball knock (with 7x4s) could not prevent a Richmond win as they were bowled out for 174 runs in 56 overs. Richmond reached the target with a few mandatory overs remaining.





Incidence of eye complications among schoolchildren high - Health Ministry

January 21, 2014, 10:56 pm

By Don Asoka Wijewardena

Around 150,000 adults in Sri Lanka are totally blind and approximately 160,000 schoolchildren have eye problems. A further 450,000 schoolchildren are liable to develop vision complications. The 'Vision 2020' of the Health Ministry would therefore launch effective awareness campaigns to educate the public and schoolchildren to prevent eye complications, the Health Ministry said.

Director General Health Services Dr. Palitha Maheepala told The Island that under the 'Vision 2020', around 10,000 people in 2013 had undergone cataract operations with lenses provided free of charge. When people did not get timely medical attention for cataract, it would lead to total blindness in the end, he said.

He pointed out that since January 2014 about 1,000 retired government servants had developed cataract. Arrangements had been made for them to undergo cataract surgery, he added. Many international organisations had funded the 'Vision 2010' to provide spectacles and lenses. During the past two years around Rs. 63 million has been provided by them. In 2013, nearly 22,000 schoolchildren were given spectacles.





The nickname is appropriate. The reasons clouded in mystery. Have we been taken for a ride by the suppliers or buyers? We the pubic are in the dark, we only speculate.

The end result is that we are called upon to pay higher electricity tariffs, from time to time for the sins of 'you know who?' We can only guess.

The very existence of the CEB is dependent on taxes, we the public pay, like it or not. When the CEB fails to deliver, due to whatever reason, their solution to the problem is to jack up the tariff. We are at their mercy.

Stage II is to be soon set in motion. If stage I is still dysfunctional, could we expect better results from Stage II from the same source?

Who could provide answers to the suffering public? Is there anyone within the CEB or Government or a competent outsider? Some have scratched the surface. Can we expect a competent explanation, and/or a solution?





Chartered Accountant, Arjuna Herath was inducted as the 22nd President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) on January 21 in the presence of a high-profile audience comprising of top accounting personalities from across the world, members of the Institute and business leaders in Sri Lanka.

Herath was ceremonially inducted under the patronage of Ajith Nivard Cabraal, Governor of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka and Warren Allen, President of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), at the Cinnamon Grand Colombo.

A leading figure in the corporate world, Herath is a fellow member of CA Sri Lanka with over 20 years of experience in industry and practice and is presently a Partner of Ernst & Young.

The high-profile guest list also included Subodh Kumar Agrawal, president of the South Asian Federation of Accountants (SAFA), the presidents of the Institutes of Chartered Accountants of Bangladesh, Pakistan, and Nepal, and the presidents of the Institutes of Cost and Management Accountants of India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, and Nepal and Brian Blood, Chief Executive of the Confederation of Asian and Pacific Accountants (CAPA).

Herath serves on several regulatory bodies including the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Sri Lanka Accounting & Auditing Standards Monitoring Board. He is also a member of the Accounting Standards Committee and the Auditing Standards Committee in Sri Lanka.





