A listed non-bank financial institution has recorded growth by going rural and downsizing its scale of financing, despite high cost of funds continuing to haunt the once-beleaguered sector.

Central Investments and Finance PLC (CIFL) which was listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange last year, released its annual report for the financial year ended 31 March 2012 yesterday (Jan. 10, 2012) to the stock exchange.

It recorded a 65.39 percent growth in profits during the year under review, to Rs. 22.73 million from Rs. 13.74 million a year earlier. Earnings per Share increased by the same growth rate for profits to Rs. 1.30 from cents 79.

Turnover declined to Rs. 518.7 million from Rs. 522.7 million the previous year mainly due to a reduction in real estate business.

During the 2010/11, the company was able to attract deposits worth Rs. 464.7 million. Total deposits with company reached Rs. 2.2 billion, up 26.35 percent from Rs. 1.7 billion the previous year. Its lending portfolio grew 73 percent to Rs. 536.7 million from Rs. 309.5 million through leasing, hire purchase and micro loans.

Total assets of the company amounted to Rs. 2.7 billion, total liabilities Rs. 2.4 billion.

Rs. 7.7 million was spent on advertising CIFL's deposit and loan products.

"The finance industry enjoyed a sigh of relief (during the financial year 2010/11) with depositors developing some confidence in non-bank finance companies after the worst-ever crisis experienced in the recent past. However, the wounds inflicted during the crisis period, particularly the repercussions such as high cost of funds, continued to haunt the finance houses even in the year under review. Therefore CIFL decided to dedicate this year to be a year of consolidation," CIFL Chairman Prof. L. R. Amarasekara told shareholders.

"Accordingly, we were successful in re-thinking the operation to change our product mix to maximise out profitability while shifting our target market segment from urban to rural and scale of financing from mini to micro," he said.

The company had a successful IPO last year, which raised Rs. 400 million.

The company is the developer of The Park Lane Residencies in Homagama. The project which commenced in June 2007 has sold out all 74 housing units under Phase I. The second phase of this project consisting 44 semi luxury duel housing units and a three storey 5-bedroom single housing unit is under construction.





The Central Bank was seen playing its role as lender of the last resort more frequently as banks continue to face liquidity tightening. After seeing some easing last week, interbank interest rates have begun to increase with liquidity continuing to tighten as the Central Bank defends the exchange rate, dealers said.

The Central Bank infused Rs. 8 billion into the system through reverse repurchase auction at 8.21 percent, at slightly higher yield than 8.03 percent the previous day where Rs. 7 billion was pumped into the system.

Banks have also been going to the Central Bank to borrow funds, under the repurchase window at 8.50 percent, where the regulator lends as a last resort to banks facing liquidity issues and cannot borrow from the market. A total of Rs. 6.2 billion had been lent to the banking system through this window on Tuesday which was the highest for a day after Rs. 10 billion was lent on the first working day of this year. Not often used, this window has seen some activity in recent weeks

Dealers said the country was on the verge of a balance of payments crisis which could be averted if the expected foreign currency inflows estimated at US$ 25 billion materialised soon, in the meantime, the exchange rate would continued to come under pressure.

The Central Bank is selling dollars to keep the exchange rate steady, but this is squeezing rupee liquidity. With credit growth stronger than what the Central Bank had expected, the liquidity squeeze is putting pressure on interest rates. Already banks and non-bank financial institutions have increased their deposit rates in a bid to mobilise funds.

Dealers are clueless as to what to expect thanks to the Treasury and Central Bank pulling in opposite directions regarding the exchange rate, but not short of suggestions they are also divided on what needs to be done.

Some suggest allowing the rupee to depreciate could help, but imported inflation was a concern. Others suggest the Central Bank should allow interest rates to move upwards, as this would cut off the credit feeding import demand, but increasing borrowing costs could dampen growth and put fiscal consolidation off track given the domestic debt component in government borrowings.

Still others suggest a little bit of depreciation coupled with a little tightening of interest rates could work. "We sincerely hope the Central Bank is right and the expected inflows arrive, but a lot would depend how the European debt crisis spreads and how fast the US is able to really recover," a dealer said.

Fitch Ratings has already grouped Sri Lanka among the highest-risk financial systems in the Asia-Pacific region. Standard Chartered Bank says economic growth is expected slowdown this year to 7.5 percent.

"The Central Bank probably could have taken measures to avoid this situation. We are now in the brink of a huge problem and our only hope is that Central Bank forecasts would turn out to be right. Last year it said Credit growth would moderate but we have not seen that. Yes the high credit growth rate comes from a low base, but the actual quantum of loans has risen. Last year the Central Bank was adamant the exchange rate could and would be defended, and the Treasury saying other wise has not helped either, but now the Governor of the bank says there could be room for flexibility," a dealer said.

"The global economy is such that central banks, let alone anyone else, cannot really predict what would happen. But then the trends were there to be seen. The exchange rate and interest rates have been under siege for some time, and something could have been done, rather than resorting to quick fixes to maintain rates where they are," another dealer said.

The rupee closed at Rs. 113.89/90 against the dollar. By the end of the day's trading activities yesterday, the Central Bank had sold more than US$ 835 million to keep the exchange rate steady since the rupee devaluation in November 22. US$ 1.1 billion was sold in three months July to September last year to prop up the rupee.





On seeing a news flash on a website, I was jolted as if I had unknowingly received an electric shock. It said the Lanka Private Bus Owners' Association had requested permission to operate their buses on the southern expressway (Eo1)at a price Rs. 100 lower than that of the SLTB fare! My mind immediately flew a few years into the future and I imagined the chaos that would be prevailing on the E01 due to the presence of the private buses, the same chaos, same hell that they are daily creating on the other roads in the country by their monopoly, unruliness on the road, total disregard for courteous public service and safety and so on and so forth. I also envisaged an innumerable amount of private bus strikes on the E01 staged to press for a fare hike plunging the public into so much trouble, not to mention the daily cross country bus races the private bus drivers would take part in on the E01 with bus loads of commuters on board. It all reminded me of the camel who requested from the tent owner just a little space to put through his tiny head in to the tent to receive some shade. The compassionate tent owner would never have known that the sanity inside the tent would be lost forever, when the request was granted.

May wisdom prevail in the minds of the authorities who look after public transport of this country!





AUCKLAND, New Zealand (AP) — New Zealand media reports a spectator has been ejected from the Heineken Open tennis tournament, with the Tennis Integrity Unit investigating possible illegal betting.

Radio Sports said the the New Zealand man was seen using a hand-held device, possibly to bet on specific points and take advantage of the delay of several seconds before other gamblers saw the points played on television.

At last week's women's tournament at the same venue, a Spanish man who reportedly had been previously ejected from Wimbledon, was asked to leave the event.

Radio Sports said more than 2,500 New Zealand dollars ($2,000) in tickets to the tournament were purchased in London, an unusually large amount.









Aspiring for a greater partnership with the country's top Chief Financial Officers (CFOs), one of Sri Lanka's largest professional organisations, the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) recently held its inaugural CFO Forum Committee Meeting in the presence of international financial expert, Mr. John O'Grady, Partner and the Asia Pacific Area IFRS Leader for Ernst & Young Australia with almost 30 year experience in the fields of audit and accounting.

The primary aim of the CA Sri Lanka CFO Forum Committee chaired by Ms. Nilanthi Sivapragasam, Chief Financial Officer of Aitken Spence PLC, is to provide a platform for Sri Lankan based CFOs to discuss issues facing them and their companies particularly in respect of achieving high quality standards in financial reporting and corporate governance, which is critical in the present context with Sri Lanka adopting to the International Financial Reporting Standards to ensure convergence in line with global trends thereby enabling a common language for financial reporting process.

The CA Sri Lanka CFO forum comprises of 50 senior financial professionals who represent the country's foremost top companies. The primary aim of this forum will be to initiate a closer dialogue among these professionals and discuss various matters concerning CFOs in today's context.









If responsible people in a country that had emerged from foreign domination seek assistance and remedies from foreign countries, organizations or powerful persons, thus providing opportunities for them to interfere in the internal affairs of their countries it would then be an execrable development that would undermine the sovereignty and independence of their countries. Those indulging in such acts and those paving the way for such acts inevitably earn the wrath and the condemnation of discerning sections of citizens.

Unfortunately, Sri Lanka which has suffered the humiliation of being under colonial yoke for four centuries and having gained its independence now shows signs of indirectly surrendering its independence. This trend is not a development of recent origin. Throughout recent history there have been instances of individuals and groups running to foreign countries and organizations seeking relief for their grievances. It is no secret that President Mahinda Rajapaksa himself was among those who made such trips abroad. In some cases these exercises could be justified. An aggrieved person going to an international organisation collectively set up for adjudicating on matters of international importance, after failing to obtain justice locally, cannot be seriously found fault with. But some make a beeline to powers abroad on a regular basis even without exhausting remedial avenues open to them locally.

What is disconcerting is that this practice of sprinting not only to international organizations set up for specific purposes, but to certain countries and powerful politicians praying them for succour has shown a marked upward trend in recent times. The latest exercise of this nature relates to the campaign to obtain the release of jailed former Army Chief Sarath Fonseka. According to media report Sarath Fonseka's loyalists have said that an appeal containing 25,638 signatures urging United States to interfere to release former Army Commander Sarath Fonseka had been sent to the White House. It is also reported that official website of White House has announced that US officials would take necessary steps to release former Army Commander.

It is a pity that both parties, those agitating for Fonseka's release and those resisting it, do not realize the damage caused to the country's independence and dignity as a result of engaging in exercises of this nature. Apparently, it is sheer obstinacy and pride – although they have other reasons to offer - on the part of both sides that prevent an agreement being reached on the matter when both parties seem to desire a settlement. This continued intransigence brings unnecessary worries and problems to both parties as well as to the country.

President Rajapaksa often exhorts politicians and other citizens to shun hatred, jealousy and ill-will and spread goodwill among them. The present agitation for Fonseka's release presents a good opportunity for the President to show the way to practice these virtues. At the same time, if Fonseka and his family set aside their pride and prejudice and make a plea for the General's release, the repulsive controversy will end and the country's reputation will be saved at this time when there are evil forces internally and externally sharpening their weapons to attack our country in various ways.

It is true that there are today many political parties, organizations, groups and individuals with serious and genuine grievances and it is equally true that they do not get remedies or adequate attention from responsible state authorities. Killings and mysterious disappearances of persons, abuse of power by ruling party leaders, student grievances, for example, are matters that demand speedy attention from the government. But to go abroad exposing these domestic woes would be akin to cutting off the nose to spite the face. It is, of course, impossible, at this stage, to stop Tamil leaders from seeking foreign assistance since this national problem has been irrevocably internationalized as a result of successive governments' failure to solve the problem.

It is internal remedies, though most frustrating, that have to be resorted to if those concerned value the independence and sovereignty the country has achieved. Campaigns of protests and agitations conducted by political parties and organized groups are the democratic methods that the aggrieved sections could choose. Instances are not rare when these protests, often begun as peaceful exercises, end up violently even causing death and injury to some. Participants in these exercises have to avoid violence since lives of people are more precious than wining demands.

It is indeed the responsibility of the powers that be to refrain from using force to suppress such protests. They should realize that it is their failure to solve problems promptly that gives rise to such agitations. It is acts of omission and commission indulged in by the authorities that create conflicts and problems. Plans and measures introduced without proper consultation with relevant parties often results in such protests. It is observed that people do not promptly come forward for protests and agitations unless they collectively feel a sense injustice. The protests and agitations organized by political parties, of course, are different. The regional party leaders get their supporters providing them with transport and other facilities to participate in these agitations. In such cases it is the party call they particularly respond to and not so much to any injustice or grievance they experience.

So, it would be a considerable relief for all concerned if early action is taken to end the present imbroglio.





Praneetha Perera writing under above title in The Island of 3 Jan. is seemingly flabbergasted, when the shoemaker, who had been 'mending her shoes for the past 28 years', told her to go and find another shoemaker, while 'mending shoes for some other women'.

A physician may, at times, direct a patient to a consultant, when the ailment becomes complex. May be, the good lady's '28 years' old shoes need the attention of a specialist shoemaker?





'A Ministry for Reconciliation is needed to implement LLRC recommendations'

January 10, 2012, 9:36 pm

BY S VENKAT NARAYAN

Our Special Correspondent

NEW DELHI, January 10: Sri Lanka should create a Ministry for Reconciliation to implement the recommendations made by the Lessons Learnt and Reconciliation Commission (LLRC) in its recently-released report, a Presidential Adviser has suggested.

The suggestion was made by Prof Rajiva Wijesinha, Adviser to President Mahinda Rajapaksa on Reconciliation, in a presentation on "Reconciliation, Sri Lanka and the World" made here today at the Observer Research Foundation (ORF), a leading private think tank.

There is need for concerted action across the board to achieve genuine reconciliation. "Those anxious for reconciliation should endeavour to support government in setting up mechanisms to work quickly and imaginatively towards the goals laid out in the LLRC report. Unfortunately, there seems no urgency at the moment about implementation, or even allocating responsibility for the different tasks," he said.

According to Prof Wijedasa, what certainly will not work is a Committee of Ministry Secretaries, chaired by someone without executive authority in this regard. "Rather, there should be a Ministry for Reconciliation, charged with fulfilling the recommendations of the Commission as best possible. I would also suggest that it be given a limited life span, of two years perhaps, after which it should have made itself redundant," he said.

But whoever may head such a ministry, he said there is need of an efficient and experienced Secretary, and dedicated staff, though very few would suffice given that the bulk of the actual work would have to be done by other Ministries.

However, current lethargy, as exemplified for instance by the failure of the Ministry of Education to even think of mechanisms for increasing the supply of competent language teachers—- despite the clear commitment of the President to building up a trilingual society—-makes it clear that innovative ideas and ensuring their implementation would have to come from a dedicated agency.

Prof Wijesinha's own view is that the recommendations of the Commission can be fulfilled very easily, provided initiative and imagination are brought to bear, along with the will to succeed.

The process of a political settlement too can be expedited if action is taken immediately on recommendations in this regard that are not controversial. For instance, the mechanism of a second chamber to promote regional input into national legislation could be put into operation straightaway. Of course, better training on legislative principles for potential members will be needed.

"We should also be ensuring proper training for local government representatives so that they can use more effectively the powers and resources they do possess, to resolve problems that should not require intervention by distant officials and politicians,"he added.

Reconciliation will not be difficult to achieve, and the LLRF report shows the way. Prof Wijesinha said: "We should not be distracted by insistence on retribution and stress on major political problems, when we can so easily deal with the root causes of resentment and, through setting mechanisms of empowerment in place that are generally acceptable, move on to solutions for more contentious issues.

He went on: "But we should also recognize that the failure thus far of government to work consistently in required areas, to have followed intensively the interim recommendations of the Commission even if common sense had not already indicated the way, has led to suspicions which government must assuage through committed action. As the Commission makes clear with regard to Reconciliation, 'the responsibility for being the prime mover of this process lies squarely with the Government.'"





The eagerly awaited 'SLIM-Nielsen Peoples Awards' will be held for the seventh consecutive year on Friday, 2 February at the Water's Edge Battaramulla.

This unique event is organized by the Sri Lanka Institute of Marketing (SLIM) –the national body of marketers of Sri Lanka, in association with Nielsen, one of the largest marketing research companies in the world and the leading market research agency in Sri Lanka.

The SLIM-Nielsen Peoples Awards are held annually to recognize the brands and personalities that have left a lasting impact on the people of Sri Lanka. The awards are significant because it allows the people to name their favourite brands, personalities, advertisements, films, teledramas etc.The difference in the Peoples Awards is that no person or company can apply for recognition, and instead the winners are those nominated by consumers themselves, thus reflecting actual views of people based on what is close to their hearts and minds.

For the second successive year the survey covers Sri Lankans from the North and East of the country and thereby providing a truly national picture.

The survey spanned a period of five months: commencing in September 2011 and ending in January 2012, with a total of 2,700 individuals having been interviewed throughout the island. Respondents were randomly selected males and females between the ages of 18 to 50 years. The data was captured through face- to- face interviews using a structured questionnaire by Nielsen field research officers, who were specially trained to conduct interviews of this nature.

Describing the Awards Night as an excellent opportunity for marketers in Sri Lanka to understand consumers, the Managing Director of Nielsen Sri Lanka, Shaheen Cader saidthat "The research findings based on the national sample is a reflection of which brands are strongly positioned in consumers' minds, shifts in preferences when comparing results from previous years would also indicate changing consumer trends which are important for marketers to be aware of". He added that further insights can be obtained by the purchase of research findings at a disaggregated level (by age, gender, region) where specific demographic segment preferences can be also be looked at.

This most looked forward to event in SLIM's calendar creates a lot of anticipation and excitement as we wait to know the winners.A brainchild of SLIM, the SLIM-Nielsen Peoples Awards saw its inception in 2006 and has been held annually since.With Sri Lanka's economy showing strong growth and consumer spending habits changing, it would be of interest to see if traditional brands and personalities have retained their inherent strengths or whether new brands and personalities are emerging as peoples' favourites, thus setting the stage for marketers to relook their brand strategies.





If you're not allowed to enslave people any more, or even loot their resources, then what is the point of being a traditional great power?

The United States kept an army of over 100,000 soldiers in Iraq for eight years, at a cost that will probably end up around a trillion dollars. Yet it didn't enslave a single Iraqi (though it killed quite a lot), and throughout the occupation it paid full market price for Iraqi oil. So what American purpose did the entire enterprise serve?

Oh, silly me. I forgot. It was about "security". And here it comes again, on an even bigger scale.

Last Friday, at the Pentagon, President Barack Obama unveiled America's new "defence strategy." But it wasn't actually about stopping anybody from invading the United States. That cannot happen. It was about reshaping the US military in a way that "preserves American global leadership, maintains our military superiority," as Obama put it.

Curiously, President Obama was not wearing animal skins and wielding a stone ax when he made this announcement, although his logic came straight out of the Stone Age. Back when land was the only thing of value, it made sense to go heavily armed, because somebody else might try to take it away from you.

It doesn't make sense any more. China is not getting rich by sending armies to conquer other Asian countries. It's getting rich by selling them (and the United States) goods and services that it can produce cheaply at home, and buying things that are made more cheaply elsewhere. It hasn't actually made economic sense to conquer other countries for at least a century now – but old attitudes die hard.

If you analyse Obama's rhetoric, he's clearly torn between the old thinking and the new. The new US strategy is all about China, but is it about China as an emerging trade partner (and rival), or is it about China as the emerging military superpower that threatens the United States just by being strong? A bit of both, actually.

"Our two countries have a strong stake in peace and stability in East Asia and an interest in building a co-operative bilateral relationship," said Obama. "But the growth of China's military power must be accompanied by a greater clarity of its strategic intentions in order to avoid causing friction in the region."

Would it help if China were to promise that it has no intention of attacking anybody? Of course not; it already does that. "Clarity about its strategic intentions" is code for not developing military capabilities that could challenge the very large US military presence in Asia. After all, the Pentagon implicitly argues, everybody knows that the US forces are there solely for defence and deterrence and would never be used aggressively.

Well, actually, the Chinese do not know that. They see the US maintaining close military ties with practically all the countries on China's eastern and southern frontiers, from Japan and South Korea to Thailand and India. They see the US 7th Fleet operating right off the Chinese coast on a regular basis. And they do not say to themselves: "That's ok. The Americans are just deterring us."

Would Americans say that about China if Chinese troops were based in Canada and Mexico, and if Chinese carrier fleets were operating just off the US west coast all the time? No. They'd be just as paranoid as the Chinese are. Indeed, they are pretty paranoid about the rise of China even though the shoe is on the other foot.

For the first time in history, NO great power is planning to attack any other great power. War between great powers became economic nonsense more than a century ago, and sheer suicide after the invention of nuclear weapons. Yet the military establishments in every major power still have a powerful hold on the popular imagination.

In effect, the new US defence strategy says that for the United States to be safe, everybody else must be weaker. This displays a profound ignorance of human psychology – unless, of course, it is just a cynical device to convince the American public to spend a lot on "defence".

The armed forces are the biggest single vested interest in the United States, and indeed in most other countries. To keep their budgets large, the generals must frighten the tax-paying public with plausible threats even if they don't really exist. The Pentagon will accept some cuts in army and Marine Corps manpower, and even a hundred billion dollars or so off the defence budget for a while, but it will defend its core interests to the death.

Obama goes along with this because it would be political suicide not to. Beijing has its own powerful military lobby, which regularly stresses the American "military threat," and the Chinese regime goes along with that, too.

We left the caves some time ago, but in our imaginations and our fears we still live there.





Standard Chartered Bank will sponsor the participation of two Sri Lankan runners and their coach, to the Mumbai Marathon to be held on the 15th of January 2012. The marathon, now elevated to an Indian National Event, is a world renowned marathon attracting not only star international athletes but Bollywood celebrities, business tycoons, major corporate and public personalities, and the general public in large, enthusiastic numbers.

Standard Chartered Bank is proud to facilitate the participation of Ruwina Deepani and Indika Ratnayake accompanied by Coach Prasanna Perera, who will most certainly acquit themselves with distinction at this year's event.

This is the fourth such sponsorship by standard Chartered for the 28 year old Ruwina Deepani. A Leading Air Craftsman of the Sri Lanka Air Force, whose participation in marathons in Singapore (2008 – placed 1st in South Asia,) and Hong Kong (2008 – placed 1st in South Asia, and 7th overall; and 2009) was also funded by Standard Chartered. This talented runner commenced her athletic career at Induruwa Maha Vidyalaya as a middle distance runner, but it took coach Perera's keen eye for talent to recognize her true potential for long distance. In her very first marathon at the Nationals held in Kuliyapitiya in 2007, Ruwina came in fifth. At last year's Colombo Marathon she left the field cleanly behind to emerge the victor.

Indika, in contrast, was a short distance speedster at Anamaduwa Central College, and came by marathon running by gradually easing into the longer distances and half marathons at district level meets. At the Singapore marathon, 2008, he was placed 2nd in South Asia and 22nd overall, and at the Asian Marathon held in Bangkok in 2010, he came in 6th in South Asia and 18th overall. The Lance Bombardier of the Sri Lanka Army's Artillery Division says he owes much of his success to his coaches Brigadier Liyanage and Major Jayasekara, the Army and the encouragement of his parents. He has consistently been placed within the top 3 from 2008 at national events, and his best timing for the marathon is 2 hours 25 minutes.

Anirvan Ghosh Dastidar, in handing over the sponsorship letters to the athletes stated "We are proud to sponsor your participation at the Mumbai Marathon 2012 to be held in Mumbai and we wish you every success as you represent Sri Lanka at this national event of India and hope that you will find the experience a very memorable one".





Public interest activist and consultant Nihal Sri Ameresekere has been enrolled as an associate member of the American Bar Association.

Ameresekere has espoused the cause of the public interest litigation, successfully appearing and making submissions in person before the Supreme Court, in many important cases, such as the Tax Amnesty, Parate-Execution, Debt Recovery, Appropriation Bill, the privatisations of the Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation and Lanka Marine Services.

He has published nine books which are now available internationally at reputed book stores and E-Retailers. These books have documented his experiences in real case studies in combating fraud, corruption and economic crime. He has demonstrated the unequal treatment before the law and the absence of the rule of law.

He is a Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, UK and Certified Management Accountant, Australia and Association of Certified Fraud Examiners, US. He is also a Member of the International Consortium of Governmental Financial Management and the International Association of Anti-Corruption Authorities.





MTD Walkers announces major projects for 2012

*New Construction, and Piling plans get underway

January 10, 2012, 8:50 pm

MTD Walkers, Sri Lanka's only listed, fully fledged engineering and infrastructure development company, continues to affirm its role in the Nation's infrastructure development drive through its subsidiary CML MTD Construction Ltd contracting to construct the A32, which is an important conduit between the North and South. Meanwhile, their other subsidiary, Walkers Pilling has won the Piling contract for the new Five-Star international Hotel Softlogic Movenpick.

According to Viraj de Silva, Chief Financial Officer, MTD Walkers PLC, these projects are two of the largest contracts to be undertaken by any engineering company in 2011. "We have successfully won these contracts and both these projects are slated for completion within the next two years," de Silva said.

As one of the best rated general contractors in the country specializing in road construction, railway and road bridges, the Company will undertake the construction of 36 kilometers of A32 roadway which is expected to be completed by 2013. After completion, the A32 road will connect the North with the South and will be the shortest route from Colombo to Jaffna. De Silva added that the cost of the road construction is LKR 1.7 Billion. CML-MTD Construction has also received a letter of acceptance for the reconstruction of the Giriulla –Narammala Highway at a value of Rs 1.4 billion.

The Company has received the highest CI grading in three construction sectors, namely Highways, Bridges and Land Reclamation. The Company also has received ISO-9001:2008 Quality Standard certification from BVQI for its Management Systems in connection with Earth moving and Land grading, Roads, Road Bridges, Railway Bridges, Industrial parks, Irrigation systems, Storm water Drainage, Port Construction & Building of Revetments, Sheet Piling, Concrete Pile Driving, Pre-cast Concrete Products, Industrial Mining, Quarrying and Crushing. In continuation of its policy of being extremely sensitive to Environmental impacts caused by construction activities and considering the steps taken to minimize such impacts the Company recently obtained ISO 14001-2004 certification for Environmental Management Systems from SGS.

The company has already successfully completed the construction of substantial components of the new Southern Expressway and is in the process of contributing specialist construction capacity for constructing the Colombo-Katunayaka Expressway.

Meanwhile, Walkers' Piling (Pvt) Ltd, a fully owned subsidiary of MTD Walkers and one of the largest piling contractors in Sri Lanka has secured the contract to carry out piling work on the world renowned Movenpick Hotel, commissioned by Softlogic. Walkers Piling will commence work this month using specialized 'secant' piling technique which is frequently used overseas for deep excavation. The Softlogic Movenpick Hotel is one of several international hotels slated to commence operations in Sri Lanka following the post-war Nation development drive.

The Chief Operating Officer of MTD Walkers Piling, Mr. Lal Perera said, "Winning this contract is an endorsement of our strength and confidence as one of the most reliable companies to handle such large projects. We have previously carried out numerous large projects successfully and are now in the forefront of this industry."

For the past 30 years, Walkers Piling (Pvt) Ltd., the pioneer Pile Foundation company in Sri Lanka, has been specializing in pile foundations. The Company was incorporated in the year 1981 along with Voltas International Limited of India as a joint venture with approvals from Foreign Investment Advisory Committee of Sri Lanka. In 2008, the Company was acquired by MTD Walkers PLC, the only fully fledged multi disciplinary Engineering Company in Sri Lanka.





*Industry minister starts work on the sector's new roadmap

January 10, 2012, 7:00 pm

The National Level Task Force (NLTF) formed on a high priority basis on December 22 by a top Minister for the development of Sri Lanka's handloom sector started work on January 10 on the handloom industry's future roadmap as previously scheduled. The new national level project is expected to deliver value and professional structure to Sri Lanka's US$ 13 million, and growing, handlooms sector.

"This effort will take the 'Ceylon Handlooms' brand to the international markets and upgrade and modernise the sector in order to attract more youth to the industry to sustain its long term course. More importantly, this is a collaborative effort by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce with various stakeholders such as the private, cooperative and provincial council level industries and the Universities," the minister said.

During the 10 January sessions representatives from the USAID, National Entrepreneurs Development Authority (NEDA), University of Moratuwa, Export Development Board, Department of Textiles, Sri Lanka Institute of Textile & Apparel, and reps from private sector handloom manufacturers, started work on the future industry roadmap of the promising Sri Lankan handlooms sector.

The stakeholders present reached consensus on the need for branding of country's handlooms based on its unique identity characteristics and also on the needs of high end international niches.

"We want to become the most sought after destination for niche handloom products," Bathiudeen said.

The 'Ceylon Handlooms' brand-name came to the favourable attention of the stakeholders and Bathiudeen. Currently, the country's handlooms, in addition to the domestic market, are absorbed by Italy, Maldives, Germany, France, United Kingdom, Thailand, Netherlands and Norway. According to the Exports Development Board (EDB), which functions under the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, the handloom exports valued at US$ 0.9 million in 2009 rose in 2010 to US$ 1.5 million and in January-October 2011, stood at US$ 1.17 million. The EDB expects the handloom export earnings to reach US$ $ 2.24 million in 2015. The handloom textile export target for 2011 set by the EDB is US $ 1.29 million (Rs 146 million).

Sri Lanka's handloom sector is one of the low cost but high earning industries. Its annual production exceeds six million metres of looms with an estimated annual production value of Rs 1500 Mn ($ 13.19 Mn) all of which are absorbed by both local and international demand.

The production is labour intensive and the industry consumes less electricity & utilities while generating higher employment. At present, there are 511 weaving centres with 2971 weavers and more than 10000 looms in Sri Lanka assisted by 22 dying houses. More than 10000 personnel are engaged in the handloom industry. According to NEDA, there are 919 private sector handloom operators of which 536 are based in the East, operating 2454 looms. In the cooperative sector, 925 handlooms in 110 centres and under the Provincial Councils are 5169 handlooms in 511 centres. The key Lankan provinces for handlooms are the Wayamba, Western, and Central provinces. The eastern regions of Sri Lanka too were reputed for handlooms but the 2004 Tsunami disaster inflicted damage on the eastern production but despite this, eastern handlooms continue to command buyer appeal.

The SWOT analysis of the Sri Lanka handlooms showed that the all items listed in the 'weaknesses' quadrant are addressable and can be solved. The stakeholders present and Minister Bathiudeen agreed that a comprehensive Value Chain Development Analysis should be carried out for the handloom sector to prepare the development action plan for the sector.

The new handloom roadmap as envisaged on 10 January session envisions more clearly defined handloom responsibilities between the central government and the Provincial Councils. It also envisions increasing of looms from its current 10000 to 15000 in the next five years and generate 7000 new jobs and the establishment of a National Handloom Monitoring Committee to coordinate the overall handloom industry. Identifying the shortcomings present in the three types of suppliers –the cooperatives, the private sector and provincial council driven loom centres- it envisions formation of Private Public Partnership model involving all three groups. To overcome low wages, it proposes performance based incentives (based on a number of criteria) for designers and weavers. It also affords high priority for modernisation and introducing IT and networking infrastructure so that information on latest market prices and design trends are readily available to the producers, even if they are rural based micro/cottage level. The Task Force also readily agreed with the suggestion of Ms Haoua Cheick, the visiting USAID/VEGA Expert who announced: "For international markets, it is essential that Ceylon Handlooms be certified at this end as 'Handlooms' before shipping so that it is accredited for its origin and quality."

Tilak Collure, Secretary to the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, addressing the gathering, stressed: "We cannot ignore the statistics and data needs pertaining to this industry in order if we want to develop it from its current stage. Not only that such data should be made available to the producers, but data from producers too should be made available to the Ministries and the proposed National Handloom Monitoring Committee as well as stakeholders." Collure added: "I am pleased that we have been able to identify most of the relevant issues to the industry today and we at the Ministry of Industry and Commerce take due note of all the issues highlighted."

Rishad Bathiudeen, Minister of Industry and Commerce of Sri Lanka (centre) listens to members from the National Level Task Force on Sri Lanka's Handlooms on 10 January at the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, Colombo 03. Tilak Collure, Secretary, Ministry of Industry and Commerce and Ms Haoua Cheick, the USAID/VEGA Expert were also present during the session, along with many well-known stakeholders of handlooms in Sri Lanka.





"The ratings are upheld by the Hospital's strong financial profile, liquidity, ongoing state support and the positive outlook for the private healthcare industry. On the other hand, the ratings are tempered by LHC's moderate profitability; coupled with the fragmented nature of the private healthcare industry and the shortage of skilled personnel in the industry," RAM Ratings said.

"Incorporated in 2002, LHC was previously known as Apollo Hospitals Colombo, a subsidiary of Apollo Hospitals Group India. In 2003, Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation PLC (SLIC) acquired 54.61% of the Hospital while 28.66% was acquired by Distilleries Company of Sri Lanka Limited (DCSL).

"Following the renationalisation of SLIC in 2009, majority stake of LHC is now indirectly owned by the state. Meanwhile, Fortis Global Healthcare Holdings Pte Limited, an Indian-based private healthcare provider acquired 28.66% of LHC which was held by DCSL. We opine that state support will be forthcoming through its major shareholders as LHC is expected to play a key role in the Government of Sri Lanka's (GOSL) agenda of making private healthcare more affordable. Furthermore, LHC's board mainly consists of representatives of GOSL," the ratings agency said.

"The ratings are supported by LHC's strong financial profile; its gearing ratio clocked in at a relatively low 0.06 times as at the end of FYE 31 December 2010 (FY Dec 2010) while the cash-protection metrics were also strong. At the same time, LHC's funds from operations (FFO) debt coverage had improved to 3.10 times as at end-FY Dec 2010 (9M FY Dec 2009: 2.19 times), supported by the overall improvement in its performance. RAM Ratings Lanka notes that the Hospital's gearing levels and debt coverage are better than those of its corporate and industry peers, reflecting the management's conservative funding policy. Going forward, we expect these numbers to ease on LHC's increased debt burden to fund its planned expansion. Nonetheless, they are still envisaged to be better than its peers'.

"The ratings are further supported by the Hospital's strong liquidity. LHC's cash and cash equivalents (CCE) provide a strong buffer against its short-term borrowings; its ratio on CCE to short-term debts improved from 2.98 times as at end-FY Dec 2010 to 5.71 times as at end-September 2011, stronger than most of its corporate peers'. We note that LHC's current and quick ratios are also stronger than those of its industry counterparts.

"Meanwhile, growth prospects for the local private healthcare industry remain encouraging, underscored by increased health awareness, higher disposable incomes, an expanding ageing population and better healthcare-insurance coverage among the working population. Moreover, better service quality and shorter waiting times compared to state hospitals also attract patients to private hospitals. In light of these factors, we envisage demand for private healthcare to continue to improve.

"Despite the above strengths, LHC's overall profitability is hampered by high overheads arising from its high-cost business model and personnel expenses. Amid faster revenue growth along with increased occupancy, however, LHC's margin on operating profit before depreciation, interest and tax (OPBDIT) broadened from 5.71% in fiscal 2009 to 12.04% in FY Dec 2010. Nonetheless, this is still weaker than those of its industry peers.

"On a separate note, the private healthcare industry is fragmented in nature. Nevertheless, the competition within Colombo is keen as most of the established players are concentrated in Colombo where the demand for private healthcare is high owing to higher disposable income. In this regard, our concerns hinge upon LHC's lack of branch network as there are other private hospitals with multiple branches and the capacity to cater to the rising demand for healthcare. At the same time, a significant challenge to the sector's growth is the shortage of skilled personnel and resultant rising costs," RAM Ratings said.





Headquarters Inspector of Police, Mahesh Perera, yesterday apologized unconditionally to lawyer E.M.W. Bandara Ekanayake, before the Supreme Court, for having abused him on August 20, 2010 at the Mt. Lavinia police station.

Bandara Ekanayake had complained to the Supreme Court that, he had gone to the police station, with some clients, to attend to some professional duties. The lawyer had answered a telephone call on his mobile phone. The HQI upon seeing that had abused the lawyers in public and thereby humiliated him.

Yesterday when the fundamental rights violation application was called before the Supreme Court the HQI tendered an unconditioned apology to the lawyer-petitioner, who accepted it and withdrew the petition.

J.C. Welimuna appeared for the petitioner. Chula Bandra appeared for the HQI.









Rugby in Sri Lanka has been a sad story for the past few years. Why? Because when one sees the potential in most youngsters who play the sport, it is evident that they have been mismanaged. The real good ones, once out of school, go away never to return to rugby. Rugby's loss has been the gain of mercantile companies which offer these players lucrative white-collar jobs. Now there is another predator which has surfaced in the form of American Football. Watching their children being lured into shaky sports activities is the parent body for rugby in the country which is the Sri Lanka Rugby Football Union (SLRFU). What can parents do about kids taking the initiative to secure their future when they can offer very little to their offspring?

Today, Sri Lanka will see a new set of office bearers take their seats in the union office after the Annual General Meeting concludes at Waters Edge, in Battaramulla.

Former national rugby player Asanga Senewiratne is set to take over as president, if all goes well because we have a history of people going to courts and blocking events from taking place in rugby. Senewiratne has been languishing as an administrator in the past because those in power didn't really obtain the best of him. The rugby fraternity hopes that men with ability will join him in pulling this rugby vehicle, which has been stuck in the mud for some time.

The SLRFU had its first AGM on August 10th 1908. Since then the constitution has been renewed twice, once during Malik Samarawickreme's reign as rugby's boss and again when rugby was under an interim administration of Dr. Maithree Gunasekere, also a former president of the SLRFU.

Everywhere it says that the main criterion to be member of the council is to have played either national rugby, SLRFU representative rugby or A Division rugby. Nowhere does it say that the top most qualification to serve the SLRFU is to be in a position to give one's valuable time to the sport, sans terms and conditions.

This year's rugby election was postponed because the SLRFU President Roshan Gunatilake was not available on the scheduled date for the AGM, due to work commitments. Gunatilake is a government servant. This writer wishes to ask Gunatilake whether he can be satisfied about his contributions to rugby during the two years he held office as the SLRFU President?

Rugby's support lines, the development work, which breathes fresh air to the game, has been tangled since the day the rugby interim committee questioned this whole episode called 'rugby development' and denied the provincial unions funds. The Interim Committee's thinking was that rugby development was a hoax and that if rugby in Sri Lanka caught the eyes of the global rugby world, it was because the game was played in Western and Central Provinces.

From all the provincial rugby unions, Sabaragamuwa claims they still kept the rugby fires burning with private funds during the troubled times. Sabaragamuwa claim they have produced about eight national players up to now and demand better treatment from the SLRFU.

Another area which seeks the attention of the SLRFU is junior (Under 20) rugby. The SLRFU has the jurisdiction to get involved in this age group because each year Sri Lanka has to compile a squad to contest the Asian Under 20 Tournament and the invitation for this tournament comes to the SLRFU and not the Sri Lanka Schools Rugby Football Association. The other reason why the SLRFU must supervise school rugby is because there are lots of complaints about lack of professionalism regarding the school rugby body. This Under 20 team has done quite well in the past and saved the country's face in the Asian rugby scene,hence more time and resources should be channeled towards uplifting the strength of this team. It's high time school rugby came under the purview of the SLRFU. There are burning issues regarding school rugby because we haven't put any professional administrators from the SLRFU to work alongside the school masters when conducting tournaments.

There is a tremor in the club rugby scene already, this year, with Sports Minister Mahindananda Aluthgamageshowing all signs that he wishes to see his team, Upcountry Lions, contest the A Division tournament without coming through the system; which is to first win the B Division and then graduate to the top division. How can rugby look to the minister for solutions when he has vested interests in rugby?

Asanga, has to be very bold to show interest in the hot seat of rugby when everywhere in this robust sport looks shaky and might crumble anytime! People say that Asanga has the potential to be a philanthropist, but being one will only cover the inability of any committee member, if there are any,who are unable to raise finances which are needed to run a sports body in a professional manner.

Asanga should be knowing that last year, national training for the Asian 5 Nations was delayed by three months due to lack of finances in the SLRFU kitty. Last year, the 'old man' from Kandy had asked some rugby officials who were on the ground (In Colombo) why national pool training didn't start at the scheduled date? "No money came the reply" from one of the SLRFU representatives. The 'Old man' had said, "If you can't raise money, you shouldn't be seated on the chairs of the union office," before he walked off. No one contested that one.

The rugby fraternity believes Asanga will win today. But as with the present situation where the national rugby team's international assignments are concerned, we are still in a position where we have to kick an up and under and hope for the best!





NEW DELHI, January 10: Controversial India-born author Salman Rushdie has brushed aside opposition to his upcoming visit to India by top Islamic Seminary Darul Uloom Deoband, and declared that he does not need a visa to visit the country.

"Regarding my Indian visit, for the record, I don't need a visa," Rushdie posted on microblogging site Twitter in the wake of demands by Deoband that the Indian government cancel his visa as he had hurt religious sentiments of Muslims in the past.

Rushdie, who has a British passport, is scheduled to attend the four-day Jaipur Literature Festival that kicks off on January 20 .

Vice Chancellor of Darul Uloom Maulana Abul Qasim Nomani had said on Monday that the "Indian government should cancel his visa as Rushdie had annoyed the religious sentiments of Muslims in the past."

65-year-old Rushdie had earned the wrath of Muslims worldwide due to the alleged blasphemous content in his novel "The Satanic Verses," which was published in 1988.

The novel, which was banned by India, had sparked outrage in the Muslim world, including a fatwa against him by Iran's then Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini on February 14, 1989, ordering Rushdie's murder for writing a book offensive to Islam.

"Salman Rushdie has attended several literary events and forums in India in recent years without incident. This includes his attending the Commonwealth Writers Prize awards in 2000, and the Jaipur Literature Festival in 2007.

"In plural societies such as ours, it is imperative that we continue to allow avenues for unfettered literary expression," said Roy.

Organisers of the JLF recalled that the festival had radical speakers in the past too.

"We had Ayyan Hirsi Ali two years ago, a fiery Somalian born author who was more explosive than Rushdie," the organisers said.

The Booker Prize winner will participate in sessions on three consecutive days at the festival.

In his first session, the "Midnight's Children" author will be in conversation with British Indian novelist Hari Kunzru.

On January 21, Rushdie along with authors Rita Kothari and Tarun Tejpal will discuss the nuances of English with noted writer Ira Pande on the topic 'Inglish, Amlish, Hinglish: The chutnification of English'.

The following day, Rushdie will take part in a discussion on 'Shehar aur Sapna: The City as a Dream' with Pakistani author Mohammed Hanif, writers Aman Sethi, Meenal Bhagel and Uday Prakash that is moderated by poet and writer Ashok Vajpayee.

Rushdie, who has authored nine novels, two books for children and a host of essays and non fiction had previously attended the JLF in the year 2007.

Last year, there were rumours of Rushdie's participation at Harud literary festival scheduled to be held in September in Srinagar.





There was a news item recently attributed to the Ministry of State Enterprises (The Island 19 November) that Lanka Phosphate Limited plans to produce triple superphosphate fertiliser instead of the currently produced single superphosphate and double the current production. This is a factually false piece of news which can mislead the public. It is important for the general public of this country to know the true facts and the failure of Lanka Phosphate limited so far to produce soluble superphosphate fertilisers. We still do not produce single superphosphate (SSP) and producing triple superphosphate (TSP) is technologically complex and expensive.

Since 1972, we have been only mining the rock phosphate and crushing it to supply the needs of the plantation sector. It can only be used with plantation crops such as tea, rubber and coconut and for use with short term crops such as rice, it has to be chemically converted to a soluble form. The only other development is the marketing of a purer high grade rock phosphate called HERP which simply uses a different portion of the ore. Eppawela phosphate deposit has been a controversial topic and when the previous UPFA regime tried to sell it to a foreign multinational company, there were vehement protests from the public, the academia and the villagers of the area. This writer has written many letters to the press on the importance of this ore for economic prosperity of the country and not a few individuals who may get some indirect benefits. The government at the time of Chandrika Kumaratunga was adamant to go ahead with this proposal in spite of opposition from major scientific bodies and it was abandoned only after the villagers of the area filed a case in the supreme court which gave an order in favour of the villagers.

The next development with this deposit was the initiative taken by a previous Chairman, who has a Ph.D. for working on producing soluble fertilisers from Eppawela apatite. He got 20 tons of SSP made simply by manually mixing the raw rock phosphate with sulphuric acid. The SSP so produced was tested in paddy fields encompassing all soil categories of Sri Lanka and comparing this with the imported triple superphosphate. The results even surprised the soil chemists of the agriculture department who conducted the field trials. The locally produced SSP was more efficient as a phosphate fertiliser compared to imported TSP. Of course reasons were obvious, the SSP provided another important nutrient sulphur essential for health growth of plants which is absent in TSP. This resulted in all soil chemists of the agriculture department vouching for the efficacy of local SSP and that it can replace imported TSP for all our soluble phosphate requirements. This also dispelled the often claimed rhetoric by certain geologists, who at times acted as consultants for the aborted TSP project earlier, that this ore cannot be developed by Sri Lanka because of various impurities present.

After this success, Lanka Phosphate Limited at that time prepared documents for the purchase of machinery to produce SSP locally, got the Environmental Impact Assessment carried out and negotiated with the banks to provide them with the capital. This was the time the politicians jumped into action. For them, Eppawela phosphate ore is a gold mine which can give them large financial rewards and they hated to see Lanka Phosphate Limited which is a government enterprise developing this to produce SSP. SSP is anathema to these politicians and TSP is their fertiliser of choice since the total investment for a TSP plant is at least 20 times more than the cost of a SSP plant. So, the Chairman who is a professional chemist with in depth experience about this ore was unceremoniously removed from his post and a new chairman with no knowledge of apatite was appointed. This happened about five years ago and from time to time there have been utterances that they will commence the manufacture of soluble phosphate fertilisers, and nothing has happened so far. The most recent utterance is even more hilarious because it is simply not true that we manufacture SSP in Sri Lanka. Perhaps, they cannot understand the difference between HERP and SSP!

This is the sad but the true story of the Eppawela apatite and we continue to import TSP incurring foreign exchange and also giving it at subsidised rates to farmers. We showed that SSP produced in Sri Lanka will reduce the cost of soluble phosphate fertiliser by nearly half and this results in considerable savings to the government in the form of fertiliser subsidy, Unfortunately our financial planners who can only balance budgets by borrowing money do not know how to use our mineral resources for economic development. It is unfortunate that not a single parliamentarian, even those in the opposition ever voiced any concern about this matter. In the meantime, the valuable national asset which can bring economic prosperity to the nation lies under our soil waiting to be used while we drain foreign exchange to imported soluble phosphate fertiliser and the government spends heftily on the fertiliser subsidy.





LONDON (AP) — U.K. police managed to smuggle a fake bomb into Olympic Park in a security test, overshadowing a special U.K. Cabinet meeting held at the park Monday marking 200 days until the Summer Games begin.

The Olympic Delivery Authority declined to comment directly on whether a fake bomb was involved in last year's failed test, but said "testing is standard practice" in all major security operations.

"Such tests have a key role in developing our capability to ensure that London 2012 is safe and secure and that we are best prepared to detect potential threats before and during the Games," the statement said Sunday. "Members of the public with tickets should be reassured that such exercises are being staged to ensure their safety, our number one priority."

Olympic security experts downplayed the significance of the test, arguing that such tests are routine and conducted by experts trained at exposing vulnerabilities.

Peter Fussey, author of "Securing and Sustaining the Olympic City," which looks at the London 2012 games, said the only thing that was unusual was that the public heard about it.

"You can't make something completely terrorist-proof," he said. "There's always going to be some risk."

Margaret Gilmore, a senior research fellow at the Royal United Services Institute, said with six months to go, a successful dummy device is not the problem one might think it to be. The whole point of such tests is to expose vulnerabilities, she said.

"The key thing is that they are putting this real ring of steel around the Olympic sites," she said.

The terror threat is the biggest security worry for the London Olympics, which take place July 27 through Aug. 12. Security has been an intricate part of the games since an attack at the 1972 Olympics in Munich killed 11 Israeli athletes and coaches. London itself has not been immune from terror attacks — four suicide bombers killed 52 commuters in 2005 when they targeted the city's transit network.

But creating enough security to satisfy the experts has proven to be costly — and more complicated than initially envisioned. Authorities vastly underestimated the number of people needed to search spectators and otherwise secure venues and other Olympic sites, like hotels and power stations.

Britain will have up to 13,500 troops deployed on land, at sea and in the skies to help protect the games — twice as many as had been envisioned. That's not counting the 10,000 security guards and about 12,000 police officers also working to secure the event.

But the threat goes beyond the event itself. Transit sites, shopping malls and other public gathering points, such as where people will watch the games on big-screen televisions, are also being scrutinized.

Britain's government has said it expects the terror threat level to be set at "severe" during the Olympics, meaning an attempted attack is considered highly likely.

The terror concerns, and more ticketing problems, surfaced as Britain's Cabinet gathered at the Olympic Park to mark the "200 days to go" milestone. As part of the festivities, the Olympic Delivery Authority formally handed over control of the park to games organizers.

"This is the perfect time for the Cabinet to come together and ensure we are doing absolutely everything we can to make the most of this unique opportunity to showcase all the great things the U.K. has to offer to the rest of the world," Prime Minister David Cameron said.





There have been complaints from many local and foreign tourists about whale-watching tour operators competing to provide more thrills to customers, becoming a danger to the mammals. Witnesses say boats leaving the southern coastal towns like Galle and Mirissa, especially small motor-boats, are the main offenders.

They venture past the recommended 100 metre radius from the whales, some closing in to almost 20 metres. Often there are at least seven or eight boats encircling, some crossing the path of the animals, revving their noisy engines as they give chase. Last week an over-eager French tourist leapt into the water in an attempt to swim with the whales.

The international Whale and Dolphin Conservation Society (WDCS) recommends that boats minimize speed; avoid sudden turns; minimize noise; do not pursue, encircle or come in between whales; approach animals from angles where they will not be taken by surprise; minimize number of boats at any one time/per day; do not coerce dolphins into bow-riding and do not allow swimming with whales and dolphins. According to witnesses, these rules are ignored by a majority of the tour operators.

Officials of the Department of Wildlife Conservation said they had formulated a set of regulations and presented it for ministry approval in 2010. They had since, resubmitted those proposals when the department was reassigned under the minister for Agrarian Services and Wildlife, S.M. Chandrasena. No action had been taken as yet.

Environmental lawyer Jagath Gunawardena said that whales were sensitive creatures and when human interference occurs there was a high probability their migration patterns, breeding cycles and behavior might change. If it continued unregulated the whale watching attraction and industry could be irretrievably lost.





Connoisseurs of good food and wine will be delighted with the London Grill experience, given its gourmet offering and impeccable service that has earned it a reputation as one of the most sought after fining dining restaurants in the City. Add to that, its legendary status as, the place "for the best steaks," and you have an unmatchable combination.

An elegant refurbishment that maintains the old world charm, but bringing in elements of modern décor and a new menu incorporating enticing and innovative culinary discoveries from all over the world, has further added to the lure of this popular restaurant.

According to Cinnamon Grand's Executive Chef Chaminda Liyanage, the menu is a mixture of French fine dining dishes and sizzling steaks done to perfection. "We always serve the very best of cuts imported from Australia and the fine dining dishes combine the best and freshest ingredients to ensure the authenticity of the dishes, "he says.

The menu, which offers a wide selection of gourmet dishes, has an array of meats and seafood options.

The selection includes starters like Baked Oysters with Truffle Emulsion, Carpaccio of Scallops on Apply Jelly or Fresh Crab Ravioli. The mains include the restaurant's legendary charcoal grill selection such as Wagyu Beef Steaks, Angus Beef Chateaubriand or Rack of Lamb.

For the more discerning there are choices like Grilled Fillet of Tasmanian Salmon, Pan Fried Fillet of Snapper or Grilled Loin of Veal.

A selection of decadent desserts like the flamed black cherry crepes and exquisite strawberry summer pudding and a range of delicious coffees- the Cointreau and Amaretto provides a fitting finale to the meal.

The restaurant with its open kitchen also enables diners to see the chefs creating their masterpieces of indulgences. The menu is further complimented by a great selection of premium wines. An ideal venue to clinch a business deal, catch up with special friends or even have a romantic dinner for two, The London Grill is the perfect place to celebrate the good things in life.





Expolanka to interact with stakeholders through Social Media

January 10, 2012, 8:49 pm

Expolanka Holdings PLC launched its social media channels earlier this month in its latest initiative to maintain interaction with the company's stakeholders. Choosing to launch a corporate blog that spoke on behalf of the company, Expolanka also opened official channels in Facebook, Twitter and YouTube to maintain a 360 degree social media interaction.

Speaking on the launch of Social Media, Group CEO, Expolanka Holdings Hanif Yusoof said, "We have many diverse business interests and stakeholders from different areas of business and society, which don't necessarily overlap. The new social media initiative gives us the perfect opportunity to bring all these stakeholders together and to present Brand Expo to all of them in an interactive and accessible manner".

According to global research conducted by KPMG International ("Going Social", 2011) the majority of businesses use social media to enhance their relationships with their customers. But more than half are also expanding their use of social media to drive innovation in their products and services, and for recruitment. Companies are also finding a wide variety of business uses for social media. The report goes on to state, "For their part, emerging markets seem to be quickly finding that social networks offer yet another opportunity to leapfrog the competition in the developed markets. In some cases, inefficient, unreliable or monitored systems are forsaken in preference of the faster and more consistent social network channels."

"Expolanka decided to launch a corporate blog to address its stakeholders through an interactive medium where they can hear the human side of the corporate speak to them outside the scripted marketing material. This also gives us a chance to voice our opinion on values that are close to our core philosophy such as the dare-to-do spirit and entrepreneurialism. This also serves as a platform for our stakeholders to have a regular dialog with us which is two way. Social media has proven to be a very positive medium which can be accessed easily by many. We wanted to leverage on this for the benefit of all our stakeholders", said Head of Marketing and Corporate Communications at Expolanka, Paddy Weerasekera.

http://www.facebook.com/expolanka and through our Twitter account at http://www.twitter.com/expolanka.





The SLN in the early hours of yesterday seized a multi-day trawler off Hambantota along with four persons, allegedly involved in the recently thwarted attempt to smuggle a group of persons to Australia.

The SLN brought the fishing craft to Hambantota fisheries harbour, while the four suspects were handed over to the Criminal Investigation Department (CID).

The owner of the trawler is believed to be a businessman living in Matara. The majority of those would be migrants are Tamils from the Northern and Eastern Provinces.

The SLN with the support of the CID took into custody on Saturday night 22 persons. They had paid Rs. 1. 2 mn each to human smugglers. (RL)





Cabinet approval has been granted to set up a Business University affiliated to National Institute of Business Management (NIBM) in the name of National School of Business Management (NSBM), at a cost of Rs. 5 billion, to provide high quality degree programmes for Sri Lankan students, Youth Affairs and Skills Development Minister Dullas Alahapperuma said.

The Minister also said that a 50 acre block of land in Homagama owned by the Urban Development Authority (UDA) has been identified to set up the new University. The foundation stone to commence the construction of the University would be laid in March and the new University was expected to begin academic activities in 2014.

Meanwhile NIBM, Director General, Dr. E A Weerasinghe said that students could apply for the degree programmes after their O/L examination and they could obtain an internationally recognized degree within four years. In Sri Lanka, students now spend seven years on higher education to get a valid degree. Because of that, this University would make changes in all other Sri Lankan Universities. "This education system is named as E-highway learning," the Director General said.

Weerasinghe also said that NSBM would accommodate 12,000 students per annum and Degree programmes covering subject areas such as Management, Marketing, IT, Engineering and Designing would be offered along with several others.





Reacting to the criticism posed by the opposition MPs regarding the failure to submit the audited accounts of the Employees Provident Fund (EPF) for 2010 to parliament, Secretary to the Ministry of Labour and Labour Relations, Upali Wijeweera said that the ministry would take necessary steps to present the report to the house within the course of this month. The ministry had not presented the report at the lapse of one year.

"By January 5th this year the ministry had only received the Sinhala version of the Auditor General's report," Wijeweera said adding that the report was currently in print and the ministry had urged the Central Bank to submit the report soon to table it this month.

Sri Lanka's main opposition United National Party (UNP) had called on the government to submit the audit reports of the EPF to parliament before the scheduled date of the presentation of the proposed amendments to the act. The draft amendments to the act would be presented before parliament on January 18th.

Opposition parliamentarian Dr. Harsha de Silva in a statement had said that according to the standing procedures the government was bound to submit the auditor general's report within three months after each financial year.

Wijeweera also said that currently the draft amendment had been re-referred to the legal draftsmen for the provision of introducing insurance and a pension scheme to be withdrawn, since it was decided by the National Labour Advisory Council to withdraw the respective provision.





In an obvious reference to Sajith Premadasa's independent political activities, UNP leader Ranil Wickremesinghe said yesterday that members should work as a team and have the blessings of the party's decision making body or face the prospect of being expelled.

Speaking at a ceremony held at the Jathika Sevaka Sangamaya headquarters at Pitakotte, to launch the website www.srilankaxnews.com he said that in terms of the new constitution all party programmes would have to be discussed and approved by the Advisory Committee or the Working Committee as the case might be.

The website will also run an online radio called X Radio and X News and an e-paper.

"Those unwilling to work as a team would have to be removed", the UNP leader said in an obvious reference to Sajith Premadasa's announcement of an independent membership drive to recruit 100,000 new members.

Wickremesinghe said that the process of appointing UNP electoral organisers and reorganising branches was continuing and once that was completed, activities at grassroots level including the recruitment of new members would be carried out speedily and efficiently.

Membership drives would have to be carried out in consultation with the officially appointed organisers. Unilateral action would only jeopardise the process, Wickremesinghe observed.

Merely participating in programmes aired by "one's favourite media" was not going to take the UNP anywhere, Wickremesinghe said adding that the focus should be on rebuilding the party as a strong outfit capable of defeating the corrupt and authoritarian Mahinda Rajapaksa regime.

The UNP was a gentlemen's party and there was no room for those who behaved like common thugs and even went to the extent of damaging their own headquarters, the UNP leader said.





Moves are now afoot to setup a new Vocational Training Centre (VTC) in Urubokka, Matara involving an expenditure of Rs. 60 million.

Youth Affairs and Skills Development Ministry target was to admit over 120,000 youth to the Vocational Training and Technical Studies field by the year 2016, VTC official said.

The spokesperson said that VTC was currently conducting a number of programmes to enhance the quality of training and services to meet the country's vocational training needs.

The VTC conducts national trade tests, examinations and issues National Vocational Qualification certificates. They also conduct research and development work relating to vocational training. The VTC also offers career guidance and counseling to those who complete their training and assist trainees who pass out to find suitable employment by having partnerships with relevant industries, she added.

VTA has provided training to about 300,000 student's country wide and over 60 percent out of them are gainfully employed in the relevant areas of the training.

The VTA has set up 236 Vocational Training Centres (VTC), 22 District Vocational Training Centres (DVTC) and six National Vocational Training Centres (NVTC) throughout the country.





Close on the heels of JVP rebels launching 'Youth for Change' to protest against the the alleged abduction of two of its activists in Jaffna on Dec. 9, University Grants Commission (UGC) Chairman Prof. Gamini Samaranayake has warned of those dissidents trying to launch a campaign similar to 'Arab Spring'.

In an interview with a private TV channel, Prof. Samaranayake urged parents of the protesting undergraduates to keep a watchful eye on their children as they could be used a pawns in a major destabilisation campaign.

On Sunday, the government alleged that JVP rebels were receiving funds from at least three overseas sources to destabilise the country. Rebel spokesman, Udul Premaratne denied the charge.

The UGC chief asserted that the Inter University Students Federation (IUSF) affiliated to the JVP had been carrying out the campaign at the behest of the rebels. (SF)





The vested interests that had targeted Mr OP Sharma succeeded in neutralizing the Supreme Court judges. One of the accused hosted a party which the judges attended. Later Mr Vineet Narain in a journal he owned and edited alleged that the SC judges were guilty of moral turpitude and of receiving bribes from the accused in order to subvert the case. These allegations were ignored until the Supreme Court Bar Council took up the matter and accused Mr Narain of defamation and contempt of court. In the hearings during the case, Justice SC Sen admitted that he had indeed attended the party hosted by the accused, but he did not know his identity till later. The question why he did not recuse himself from the Bench hearing the case was never addressed by him. Inexplicably, despite the grave allegations made by Mr Narain he was not hauled up by SC. Instead the case was dismissed after a warning was issued to Mr Narain! It would be fair surmise that the SC judges were unwittingly lured into a compromising situation and were too embarrassed to punish Mr Narain. But what does that incident do to the credibility of the court's handling of the case?

What kind of vested interests could have masterminded the subversion of the SC itself? It should be recalled that the total money received and disbursed by SK Jain was Rs 64 crore. This was the precise amount that was the kickback in the Bofors case. Was there a link? Well, subsequently the CBI in a case against Mr Ottavio Quattrochchi informed the court that Quattrochchi was the source of the Hawala money disbursed by Jain. What might have been the reaction of Rajiv Gandhi on learning that the Bofors kickback was not only paid to him but also to many opposition leaders? We will never know because 19 days after the diaries were seized and the names of the recipients became known to the government, Rajiv Gandhi was assassinated in a crime that has to this day not been satisfactorily explained.

What happened to the case against Mr OP Sharma? After 19 years of his being charged the case is still proceeding in the court! During the trial of OP Sharma's case the investigating officer of the Jain Hawala Case, Mr CM Sharma, Joint Director and IG Police, admitted he had earlier met SK Jain with a mutual friend and he had no knowledge of any links he may have had with terrorists. In the written deposition regarding this case by the Mr Sharma, which is posted on the Internet, the following quotations occur:

"I was not interested in the arrest of SK Jain and others... OP Sharma wanted to arrest Jains to ascertain their role in funding of money to terrorists...It is correct that I had opposed the arrest of Jains by OP Sharma...I was not in favour of arrest of those persons who were purely and simply hawala dealers...It is correct that terrorists were funded through hawala transactions...OP Sharma had made a note that 'It is felt that those recoveries are very important in establishing the offence under TADA, if approved we may keep them with us and continue to investigate the terrorist link'. It is correct that despite the above note of OP Sharma, I suggested to refer the matter to Income-Tax department and Directorate of Enforcement be consulted...As per the note by OP Sharma he had submitted a chart along with his note relating to hawala dealers. I cannot comment as to where the chart mentioned above at present is. It is not on the file brought by the CBI official... It is correct that OP Sharma did record a note in the file suggesting arrest of bankers/financiers straight away to know more about the hawala racket and to continue to interrogate the receivers in order to eliminate any terrorist links and arrest those who are not able to explain the source of origin and subsequent disbursement."

Readers may draw their own conclusions from this deposition.

The Jain Hawala case was dismissed for insufficient evidence by the Delhi High Court. Surprisingly the SC, which had monitored the case till the chargesheets were filed, silently concurred with the lower court's dismissal. Many years later former Chief Justice Mr JS Verma who presided over the Bench hearing the Jain Hawala case publicly said that the case should be heard all over again!

This then was how a case that had the potential of bringing revolutionary change in the nation's political culture was subverted and buried without a single politician or bureaucrat facing any kind of punishment. What might one conclude from the entire episode? First, the enemy is not this party or that party but an international mafia that has the power and reach to subvert the nation's polity, the media and the judiciary.

Secondly, corruption thrives not only because of corrupt individuals but mainly because the rest refuse to confront them. In the prevailing context people think it futile to invite trouble because nothing will happen any way. The rot therefore transcends corruption. It has polluted culture.

Finally, it is naïve to state that the poor are suffering from corruption which is why Group C and Group D officials should be tackled by the proposed Lokpal. Poor people suffer indirectly from corruption because money for their welfare is diverted to kickbacks. But in direct fashion the poor suffer from bad governance and exploitation.

They are hardly in a position to pay bribes or receive bribes. Should the petty offerings of a street vendor to a policeman be called corruption or the prevailing systemic culture?

All the protagonists of the Lokpal and others against corruption should reassess the dimensions of the challenge facing India. To end corruption there is need for a strong executive accountable to the people. Corruption will end through a trickle-down effect.

If the top boss has zero tolerance for corruption its impact will travel down to the lowest levels of bureaucracy. The present system needs to be changed. Fortunately that can be done without changing the Constitution. It can be done by faithfully observing our written Constitution which is Presidential. That alone will improve the system, the culture and the future of India.





More than 8,000 visitors are expected at the Divineguma exhibition to be held in Mannar. The show will focus on reviving industries, specially cottage, in the region. "Many families in the area will be given the opportunity to become self-sufficient and event become suppliers of farm and livestock produce at micro level by this exhibition," said Rishad Bathiudeen, Minister of Industry and Commerce of Sri Lanka.

Bathiudeen was addressing the seventh high level planning session held at Mannar DS Office premises on Sunday 08 January on the forthcoming Divineguma show to be held in Mannar on 21 and 22 January. The special session saw the participation of top officials, department heads and statutory institutional heads from the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, Youth Affairs Ministry, Ministry of Traditional Industries and Small Enterprises (with IDB), Ministry of Economic Development and Science and Technology Ministry.

After the session that lasted more than one hour, Bathiudeen said: "We expect more than 8000 visitors from the area, including students for this top exhibition. We will showcase many livelihood support and enhancement options for backyard economic improvement as per the committed efforts of Basil Rajapaksa, Minister of Economic Development under the vision of Mahinda Rajapaksa, our President."

He also reiterated that the Mannar Divineguma is an ideal opportunity to kick-off and revive the industrial base in the region.

V. Sivagnanasothy, Secretary, Ministry of Traditional Industries and Small Enterprises said: "We expect to create awareness for village level families in the area on running cottage industries and facilities we offer for micro and medium scale cottage entrepreneurs. This exhibition will also be a machinery and equipment exhibition and we will also highlight spot in the production process where the machinery comes into manufacturing."

Tilak Collure, Secretary, Ministry of Industry and Commerce, addressing the gathering, said: "I am happy to see the commitment of the officials of various Ministries towards the forthcoming Mannar Divineguma exhibition. We believe that your efforts will strongly assist in reviving the rural household economy in Mannar as outlined in the rural development concepts of Mahinda Chinthana."

The initial one million home gardens, livestock, poultry, fisheries and one million domestic economic units target under this programme as proposed by the 2011 budget proposals, has now been increased to 2.5 million by the budget proposals of 2012. The programme is considered as a "strong pillar in the Mahinda Chinthana Vision for the Future" and is being implemented under five line ministries, including the Industry and Commerce Ministry. The Export Development Board (EDB) and the National Entrepreneurs Development Authority (NEDA) of the Industry and Commerce Ministry contribute to the programme according to the vested subject areas.





"Security wise, we are dependent on Sri Lanka – there are large security concerns that can affect both countries in the Indian Ocean. We would like to continue to keep on the right side of Sri Lanka", said Indian External Affairs Minister S M Krishna in an interview with the Business Standard on January 1st.

Relations have improved but they were always good even when Prabhakaran was riding high on the LTTE banner. The Indian government has never provided overt or covert assistance (to any group in order) to maintain bilateral relations with Sri Lanka, he further said.

Speaking with regard to the assistance provided by the Government of India the Minister stated that,"we are assisting Sri Lanka in the rehabilitation of displaced persons. I will be going to Colombo on January 16. I am looking forward to the visit and would like to see the relationship firmly anchored".

When questioned about the Sri Lanka's developing relations with China Mr. S M Krishna said "we are concerned with bilateral relations with our neighbours and would like to anchor them securely. As far as their relations with third countries are concerned, we cannot impose our will on them: we respect their attitude to other countries. But we would like to conduct our relations with them on the basis of goodwill and good neighbourly relations".

The interview covered a wide rang of issues on international affairs, regional cooperation, security and India's relationships with neighbouring countries.





Sri Lanka's pioneer Islamic bank, Amana Bank was voted the 'Best Islamic Bank in Sri Lanka' at the global Islamic Finance News poll for 2011 conducted by the Malaysia-based RedMoney Group. The results of this prestigious award poll held for the 7th consecutive year were officially released on 4 January 2012, which includes the results for the World's Best Islamic Bank, the Islamic Banker of the Year, the Best Islamic Bank by country and the Best Islamic Banking Deals for the Year.

Amana Bank, with this win continues to establish its leadership position and stature in the field of Islamic finance in the country.

The Islamic Finance News Poll 2011 which was concluded in December last year takes an unbiased and all-encompassing approach in selecting the best banks in the world. The Islamic Finance News Poll was established in 2005, and continues to be an apt representation of the current Islamic financial market landscape. Since then it has been the industry's leading, transparent and most comprehensive annual poll. Islamic finance issuers, investors, financial intermediaries and government bodies from around the world participate by casting their votes for the best players and deals in the various award categories every year.

The poll winners will be presented with their awards at two separate ceremonies held in Kuala Lumpur and Dubai in February 2012.

Commenting on this global accolade, Amana Bank's Managing Director/CEO Mr Faizal Salieh said "It is indeed an honour to have won this international award and to be recognized as the best Islamic bank in Sri Lanka. Over the course of last year we were able to achieve many milestones, of which commencing commercial banking operations was the most significant. I would like to sincerely thank all our employees, customers and stakeholders for supporting the growth of the bank which enabled us emerge winners at the Islamic Finance News poll."

Amana Bank is Sri Lanka's first Licensed Commercial Bank to operate in complete harmony with the principles of Islamic Banking. Guided by its principles, Amana Bank presents a new way forward enriched with Honour, Humanity, Stability and Uniqueness. While being the pioneer and market leader in Islamic Banking in Sri Lanka, the Bank is focused on capitalizing on the growing market potential for this unique banking concept among all communities in the country.





They are Inland Revenue officers in disguise. Whatever you do on the road or close to the road is enough for them to take as an opportunity to fatten their pockets or the government coffers.

As Deshapriya Rajapaksha (DR) wrote on December 6, they wait for their prey, neglecting their duty till you fall into trouble in the middle of the road and to find fault with you for the action you take to avoid the situation. They will watch you park you vehicle and leave, and when you come back only they will stand attention by your side and ask for your papers. If you tell them you did not obstruct the movement of traffic and there was no "No Parking" sign they would ask you whether there was a "Parking"sign. If you stop your car completely off the road in a premises of a shop, they will come and ask for your papers saying you have stopped your vehicle closer to a zig-zag yellow line preceding a pedestrian crossing. If you drive closer to a 'continuous white line' they will stop you and say you went over the line.

What I hear was that they now want to replace the "broken white line" with the 'continuous white line' for them to jump on their prey without much effort.

As DR suggested the learned judges of our traffic courts should come to the rescue of the persons victimized by these wolves.

It should also mentioned that there are many decent officers who do their duty very correctly catching the real violators of the road rules without jumping on everybody on the road till his / his superiors' / government's targets are achieved.





Under-19 Cricket

January 11, 2012, 7:17 am

Hashan Hewanayake scored 96 runs and got a match-bag of 11 wickets to guide S. de S. Jayasinghe MMV over President's College in their Under-19 inter-school cricket match at Dehiwala yesterday. Hewanayake scored 96 runs to take S. de S. over the 300-run mark in their first innings and then he captured five-wicket hauls in both innings to guide his team home.

Left-arm leg-spinner Devin Pathmanadan's six-wicket haul in the first innings was the highlight as the match between Dharmapala Vidyalaya and Royal College ended in a draw at Pannipitiya yesterday. Pathmanadan captured six wickets for just 36 runs to restrict Dharmapala to a first innings total of 98 and then Isuru Gunathilake whacked a half-century to take Royal above 150 just for a loss of five wickets. Dharmapala in their second innings were 91 for one at the end of the day's play.

Gurukula's Namal Pathum captured four wickets while Roshan Anuruddha and Hashan Dumindu took two wickets apiece to restrict S. Thomas' College, Mount Lavina to a paltry total of 122 for nine in the second innings in their match which ended in a draw at Mount Lavinia yesterday. Gurukula enjoyed a first innings victory.

Chathura Jayasinghe's half-century helped Mahanama College record a first innings victory over Zahira College in their U-19 match which ended at Maradana yesterday. After Zahira posted a total of 210 runs in their first innings, Mahanama were powered by useful contributions by their batsmen. Zahira, batting in their second innings, were 127 for four at stumps.

Despite Nimma Karunaratne's 67 runs (4x9, 6x1), Maliyadeva College were bundled out for 151 in their U-19 match against Isipatana which ended in a draw at Colts Ground yesterday. Sidath Mallawaarchchi was the pick of the bowlers for Isipatana capturing four wickets. Isipatana in their second innings scored 124 for four at stumps.

The U-19 match between Nalanda College and D. S. Senanayake ended in a draw at Wijerama Mawatha yesterday. Nalanda, batting first, posted a total of 282 with Lahiru Jayakody scoring 50 runs and, in reply, DSS were 134 for five at the end of day's play.

Bandaranaike Vidyalaya enjoyed a first innings victory over Piliyandala Central in their U-19 match which ended at Gampaha yesterday. Piliyandala Central were bundled out for 193 in their second innings.





The Commission Members of the country's capital markets watchdog, the Securities and Exchange Commission, are expected to meet today to deliberate on the price bands and credit restrictions plaguing the exchange and also to appoint the next Director General, with three names being shortlisted for the post.

Analysts said the Colombo Stock Exchange continues to slump as investors eagerly await a policy directive from the regulator, but until it gets its house in order, this may not happen.

The once-best performing stock exchange in the world declined by 8 percent in 2011. Year-to-date, the exchange has slumped 3.54 percent by the end of day's trading yesterday (Jan. 10).

Last year, the government removed Malik Cader from the Director General's post when influential investors complained to the President about the SEC's tough stance on market manipulation. Soon after, Chairperson of the SEC Ms. Indrani Sugathadasa resigned saying it was a 'matter of conscience'.

Tilak Karunaratne was appointed Chairman of the SEC in December. Since then the market has been in anticipation as to whether or not the SEC would continue to implement the tough stance adopted by Ms. Sugathadasa, Cader et al.

"Until the SEC gets its act together and finalises key appointments, a policy direction may not be forthcoming anytime soon," a market analyst said.





The Annual General Meeting of the Computer Society of Sri Lanka (CSSL) was recently held at the Cinnamon Grand Hotel and the new executive council for the year 2012 was elected.

The CSSL was established in 1976 in Sri Lanka by a group of dedicated professionals for the purpose of promoting Information and Communication Technology (ICT) and professionalism among those engaged in this field, and to maintain the highest professional standards among the ICT fraternity. It is a not-for-profit body.

CSSL has played this role for over 35 years now and is considered the apex body for ICT professionals in Sri Lanka. Internationally it is recognised as a member of IFIP – International Federation for Information Processing. IFIP is the leading multinational organization in ICT, which is recognized by the United Nations and other world bodies. CSSL is also the Sri Lankan representative in the South East Asia Regional Computer Confederation (SEARCC) which is the forum of national Information Technology professional societies in the Asia Pacific region.

The new President of CSSL is Mahesh Perera. Mahesh has 17 years of experience in various fields of ICT industry. He holds a Masters Degree in Computer Engineering from the State University, former USSR and an MBA from the University of Sri Jayewardenepura. Mahesh is at present working for the Parliament of Sri Lanka as the Director - Information Systems & Management.

"The main focus of the strategy is to make the CSSL relevant and useful" says Mahesh Perera, President of CSSL. "The strategy consists of three strategic themes namely strengthening CSSL, empowering membership, and promoting right technology".

One of the new projects that the council is looking at including is CSSL Awards with the view of recognizing and motivating those who have served the industry. The new council is also exploring the options of proper certification programs for ICT professionals which have been a lacking area for recognition. A Resource Centre at the CSSL headquarters comprising of facilities for conducting seminars, meetings and discussions will be developed.

Rural workshops will drive activities to promote ICT in rural. CSSL also expect to form Chapters, which are more or less product or technology independent 'institutions' to serve different categories of users. Special Interest Groups (SIG) will discuss important topics within the ICT industry to help professionals grow their careers.

The CSSL will also carry out nationally important projects such as National IT Conference, IT Mastermind program, National Schools Software Competition and International Schools Software Competition.

The CSSL Strategy for 2012 well aligns with the national ICT objectives set out by the His Excellency the President in Mahinda Chinthana around creating a knowledge hub. The goal of the Knowledge hub has a lot to do with ICT. The Government has launched various programs to increase ICT literacy to 75% by 2016. In addition there is a target of reaching a total export revenue amount of USD 1 billion from this industry by that time. Currently it earns about USD 400 million in terms of export revenue. The CSSL is well aligned with this vision is strongly placed to support it.





External Affairs Minister G.L. Peiris has called for the strengthening of the Asian African Legal Consultative Committee with a view to harnessing the views and proposals of African and Asian countries to promote the vital interests of developing nations in both continents.

His proposal was made during a meeting with Abdoulaye Wade, the President of the Republic of Senegal, the Foreign Ministry said.

Peiris, who was in Dakar as a special envoy of President Mahinda Rajapaksa said that it was the initiative of The Asian African Legal Consultative Committee with regard to the concept of Exclusive Economic Zones which had provided the foundation for the Law of the Sea negotiations on the demarcation of the 200 nautical mile Exclusive Economic Zone. A forum of this nature should be strengthened to harness the views and proposals of African and Asian countries to promote the vital interests of developing nations in both continents, he had observed.

President Wade recalled with pleasure the meeting he had with President Rajapaksa in September last year on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly.

Minister Peiris had handed over a personal letter of felicitation from President Rajapaksa to President Wade who had warmly reciprocated the sentiments and said that he looked forward to working closely with Sri Lanka in the new situation which has arisen since the eradication of terrorism.

Peiris had referred to the resolve of Sri Lanka, as a significant feature of its foreign policy,to strengthen traditional and historic ties with countries in the continent of Africa.

Recalling the 50th Anniversary meeting of the Asian African Legal Consultative Committee, hosted by Sri Lanka in Colombo last year, he said had emphasized the strong bond between Sri Lanka and Senegal as countries which showed solidarity in applying the principles of the Non Aligned Movement in addressing current regional and global issues.

While expressing appreciation of the active participation of Senegal in the work of the Group of 15 of which Sri Lanka was at present the Chair,the Minister had thanked Senegal for its consistent support extended to Sri Lanka in multilateral fora.

He had also briefed the President of Senegal comprehensively on developments in Sri Lanka with regard to reconstruction and reconciliation initiatives, the Report of the Lessons Learnt and Reconciliation Commission, and the Government's plans regarding the way forward.

The Minister informed the President of Senegal of the new vistas of opportunity opening up in Sri Lanka for extended relations between the two countries in respect of trade, investment and tourism.





Brad Haddin has fired a sensational verbal shot at struggling India ahead of Friday's third Test in Perth, saying the tourists ''break quicker than anyone in the world'' and turn on each other when events are not going their way.

The Australian wicketkeeper revealed Michael Clarke's team had discussed the mental frailty of Indian players during the hosts' marathon batting performance at the SCG last week in a Test they won by an innings and 68 runs.

While Clarke posted a record-breaking 329 not out, and Ricky Ponting and Michael Hussey compiled centuries, India were made to sweat it out in the field for an eternity, playing into Australia's hands as a 2-0 series lead was established.

''We spoke about a bit of that when we were batting,'' Haddin said. ''The longer we could keep them out on the field the bigger chance we had of breaking them.

''We know this side can be as fragile as any team in the world if things aren't going their way and they can turn on each other and the media turns on them pretty quick.

''We knew if we could keep them out there and put the numbers like we did on the board we knew we'd get the rewards because they break quicker than anyone in the world.''

Haddin told Sky Sports Radio Australia had used India's fading resolve to their advantage.

Incoming fast bowler Ryan Harris also noted at the weekend that India were ''down and out already'' and being torn apart by internal divisions and it was reported yesterday that Indian management had banned its players from using Twitter.

There is also increasing external heat on India as they resume training in Perth. Amid a bombardment of criticism from former players and captains, the latest focus of scrutiny is veteran run machine V.V.S. Laxman.

Former Indian batsman Sanjay Manjrekar believes Laxman, 37, should be dropped at the WACA, allowing for a Test debut for the promising Rohit Sharma in the middle order and for fellow youngster Virat Kohli to retain his place.

While Laxman has had a forgettable tour Haddin also indicated Australia had found a weakness in the imperious armour of Sachin Tendulkar, whose quest for a hundredth international hundred will restart in Perth. Tendulkar has been by some margin the standout Indian performer in the first two Tests, making 226 runs at an average of 56.5, but he is still short of that elusive milestone.

''What we have found is if we can build enough pressure on him he wants to score and he wants to feel bat on ball and he wants to get into a rhythm,'' Haddin said. ''We find if we can push him a little wider, make him feel for the ball a bit we can build enough pressure to get a chance and it's worked in the last two Tests.''

Haddin told the Big Sports Breakfast programme that paceman Peter Siddle, in particular, could get under Tendulkar's skin. Siddle dismissed the Little Master twice at the MCG before James Pattinson and then, bizarrely, Clarke removed the 38-year-old champion in Sydney.

''We've found he can be a bit uncomfortable in the areas Siddle's been bowling to him,'' Haddin said. ''l knew if we could build enough pressure we can create a chance to get him. He's a great player and it's always a privilege to play against guys like this.

''There's been a lot of talk about his hundredth hundred but from our point of view it's our job to make sure he doesn't get it this series.''





I would like to ask the members of the GMOA and others who are opposed to private medical education in the country the following simple questions:

If your own child's score is a few marks less than the required cut off point mark to qualify to enter into medical education within the country, would you:

* Prefer to give him/her the opportunity to follow a course available within the country at a reasonable cost or send him to a foreign country to follow such a course at a much higher cost?

or

* now that you have the opportunity to become a doctor, may be because of free education deprives your own child the same opportunity (for the want of a few marks), if you are now in a position to meet the costs at a private medical school within the country?

Please remember that it is also equally unfair...

* to deprive a capable child the opportunity to follow his/her chosen field of studies because he/she is too poor and cannot afford the resources

* to deprive a similar capable child who can now afford to bear such costs

Please remember that these children who qualify by passing the GCE A-Level exam are all clever hard working children. Let those who at the very top in the merit order selected at whatever cut off mark have the opportunity of free education at the state institution (even if their parents are rich).

But please don't stand in the way of your own and others' children who are equally clever and capable of becoming doctors by blocking their opportunities at the private medical schools. Take an example from legal education . Those who do well enough in the GCE AL get admitted to the law faculty while many other children who are equally clever but miss by a few marks gain entry to Law College a fee levying institution and qualify as lawyer. Similarly there are many fee levying institutions both public and private conducting many professional programmes in the country and the children whose parents can afford make use of the opportunity for their children by providing the necessary resources sometimes with great difficulty. A strong viable private health sector has come to stay.

In the interest of your own and many other clever children in this country who are capable of following medical education please extend your support to the establishment of private medical education at reasonable cost within the country. By doing so you are you are not in any way depriving the less privileged from gaining admission to the free state government institutions. You are only helping those children who are competent and can afford, to gain from such education at a reasonable cost. Some of your own children may be among them.

All your efforts to ensure the quality of medical education provided at private and public institutions should be continued.





MELBOURNE, Australia (AP) — Venus Williams has withdrawn from the Australian Open, prolonging her absence from the tennis tour because of an autoimmune disease that can cause fatigue and joint pain.

The seven-time Grand Slam title winner announced Monday on Twitter and on her website that she wouldn't play in the year's first major tournament, which starts Monday. She added, though, that she plans to be back in action next month.

Williams hasn't played competitively since Aug. 29 at the U.S. Open. Two days later, she pulled out of that tournament, revealing that she'd been diagnosed with Sjogren's syndrome.

"I regret to announce that I am withdrawing from the 2012 Australian Open. After several months of training and treatment, I am making steady progress to top competitive form. My diet and fitness regimen have allowed me to make great strides in terms of my health and I am very close to being ready to return to WTA competition," Williams said in a posting on her website Monday. "I have every intention to return to the circuit in February."

Australian Open tournament director Craig Tiley said Williams was "very disappointed" that she was not able to play in Melbourne.

"She had hoped she'd be further along in her preparation but is not quite ready for Grand Slam competition," Tiley said in an email to The Associated Press. "She's an amazing champion and she's had a tough year battling illness and injury. We wish her all the best and look forward to seeing her back in Australia soon."





Michael Clarke is poised to sign a three-year contract with bat manufacturer Spartan Sports in what is likely to be the first of a series of deals that will ensure his 329 not out against India is remembered as the multimillion-dollar innings.

The Sun-Herald understands Clarke has a handshake agreement with Spartan, a family-owned sporting goods business, after he ended his 18-year association with Slazenger days before he spearheaded Australia to a comprehensive second Test victory in front of his home crowd at the SCG.

It is believed the plan is for Clarke's bat, and potentially other merchandise, to be emblazoned with his own ''MC'' logo, just as the great Sachin Tendulkar has his own ''ST'' brand, which adorns his adidas-sponsored bats.

Spartan also has a licensing agreement with Cricket Australia and factories in India, where its bats are manufactured.

Spartan consultant Ian Davis, a former Test cricketer, whose relationship with Clarke stretches back to his days as general manager of Dunlop Slazenger, said: ''We're very keen, we're talking with them [Clarke's management] and hoping to get it over the line ASAP.

''Michael has always been a really good cricketer ... and it would be fantastic for us to have him as an ambassador.''

Sports marketer Rob Horton, who negotiated a long list of major sponsorship deals for the likes of the Australian Rugby Union and West Indies cricket, said Clarke's ''humility'' would make him an easier sell than Brian Lara, the West Indies great he represented in Australia when Lara - who retained the highest Test score record of 400 - was at the peak of his powers.

''Lara was perceived in the Australian marketplace as a bit too cocky because of some comments he was reported to have said before a tour [here],'' Horton said. ''In Brian's defence I found he was very good to deal with.

''However, there's plenty of companies who'll see Michael Clarke as a viable proposition, especially after his gracious declaration where he didn't pass Don Bradman and Mark Taylor's score. He showed himself [at the SCG] to be a fine cricketer, extremely gifted and someone who has good judgment. I don't believe he declared to gain the public's acceptance ... I'm happy to think he wanted Mike Hussey to reach 150 and once he did Clarke put his personal milestones aside to give Australia the best chance of victory.

''Australians like that, and there'd be many people who might be thinking they'd judged Clarke a little bit too harshly before and they'd be looking at him in a different light. Australians don't like a smart-arse winner, they like their sports heroes to be gracious in defeat and humble in victory, and that's how Clarke is being viewed.''

Clarke's decision to end his association with Slazenger, the company that had sponsored him since he was 13, was a major talking point after he battered the Indian attack into submission.

A spokesman for Slazenger's parent company Pacific Brands said the relationship was terminated on the eve of Clarke's career-best innings because they couldn't meet his commercial demands.

But Spartan can deliver what he wants, and his signing would be in keeping with the company's apparent strategy to recruit a stable of ''faces'' who have widespread appeal with youngsters.

''The last I heard there was a handshake agreement and a contract for a three-year deal with Spartan worth seven figures,'' a source told The Sun-Herald yesterday. ''If you said the deal was worth well over a million dollars you wouldn't be wrong.''





The slide on the Colombo bourse continued for the sixth straight day yesterday on a turnover of Rs.534.3 million, up from the previous day's Rs.434.45 million, with both indices down – the All Share by 13.27 points (0.23%) and the Milanka by 24.95 points (0.50%) with 101 losers well ahead of 64 gainers.

Much of yesterday's business came off Environment Resource Investments (ERI) whose 2011 warrants have been converted with the new shares beginning to trade yesterday.

The ERI price dipped Rs.2.40 to close at Rs.27.20 with over 6.5 million shares done between Rs.25.50 and Rs.28.80.

ERI has postponed a warrant conversion due next month to Sept. 2013.

The warrants were converted at Rs.24 and there was a small profit for those who opted to sell new shares, brokers said.

While ERI generated a turnover of Rs.178.7 million, JKH followed with over 0.5 million shares done between Rs.165 and Rs.167 closing Rs.2 down at Rs.165 contributing Rs.91.1 million to turnover.

Other contributors included Tokyo (non-voting) down 40 cents to close at Rs.28.40 on nearly 0.9 million shares done between Rs.28 and Rs.28.50, Ceylon Leather up Rs.1.70 to close at Rs.102.10 on 0.2 million shares done between Rs.99 and Rs.102.10, Asian Cotton down Rs.6.60 to close at Rs.160 on nearly 0.1 million shares traded between Rs.150 and Rs.160.

People's Leasing Company lost 30 cents to close at Rs.15.20 on nearly 0.9 million shares, Nestle was up Rs.34.60 to close at Rs.910 on 12,700 shares while Aitken Spence Hotels lost 40 cents to close at Rs.66.20 on over 0.1 million shares.

Some banking stocks gained yesterday with Commercial Bank up 10 cents to Rs.100.30 on 52,800 shares, NTB up Rs.1.20 to Rs.59.80 on 88,700 shares and ComBank (non-voting) up 10 cents to Rs.45.40 on 65,300 shares. Seylan Bank (non-voting) was up 10 cents to Rs.29.60.

Aitken Spence where a mandatory offer is pending gained Rs.2.20 to close at Rs.114.30 on 23,600 shares.

People's Merchant Bank announced the appointment of three new directors, Mr. Thushan Wickremasinghe, Chairman of Capital Trust Holdings and MD of Capital Trust Securities, Mr. G. Ramanan MD/CEO of Capital Trust Financial and Capital Trust Wealth Management and Mr. Anil Weerasinghe, a former director of the People's Bank who had also served on the board of CDB and Lanka Cement.





Ranjith G. Perera who introduces himself as "practising Buddhist" in The Island of 5/1/2012 asks why UNP politicians go to Buddhist monks to solve their internal political differences.

He further says: "I strongly object to these Mahanayakas dabbling in party politics and ... the President too had gone to Kandy to pay obeissance to the high priests and explain and clarify certain matters to them. Cannot the Mahanayakas do something to unify the Sangha (the various sects) for betterment of the Sasana?"

The answer is they cannot. Why? Because Sri Lankan Buddhism is institutionally Casteist. Caste is the most important criterion to be ordained under the Malwatta or Asgiriya Chapters. Of course this is a flagrant violation of the Wasala Sutra in which the Buddha is supposed to have said that no one is born into a low caste or high caste but only one's actions make him so. "Kammanna wasalo hoti, kammana hoti brahmano." But in Sri Lankan Buddhism the caste system was introduced during the Kandyan Kingdom after some drummers, who had been ordained, rose from their seats when the king arrived. Thereafter the king ordered that only Govigama men should be ordained. That was the origin of the Siam Nikaya to which both Asgiriya and Malwatta heads belong. Men of a so-called lower caste have other Nikayas or sects.

Unlike the Christians and the Muslims, the Buddhists in this country are rigidly embedded in the caste system. The Buddhist clergy is therefore institutionally caste-minded and casteist. Till this caste system is removed from Sri Lankan Buddhism, one can shout till the cows come home. No Buddhist scholar, I bet, will deny this.





Trinity's Murad Ramzeen, Royal's Shehan Pathirana, Isipathana's Prasad Devinda all had one thing in common during last year's school rugby season. They were the central hub of which precipitated the success ridden routes for their respective outfits. Royal surged to the second Singer A division title in three years not least with an unblemished log in front, Trinity snapped up President's trophy with a trio of optimum class performances and Bradby on the back of a ruthless exhibition of power rugby in the second leg and Isipathana winded up the first half of the season illustrating that their game might be evolving back to those past glories.

It may be intricate to cull who the better man was -Ramzeen should be as the Bradby and President's trophy victories and having the luxury of captaining Sri Lanka youth side to the exotic stream of Junior rugby Asiad at Hong Kong would wave in admittance - but there was no overruling the fact that all three of them felt satisfied at the end of an unpredictably splendid six months.

There's nothing that depicted Royal's strength in their marathon run towards being crowned unbeaten league champions than their seemingly uncanny dexterity to hit back after taking a nosedive and ice-flowing bodies they were in crunch and liable situations to crumble. Isipathana, Wesley, St.Peters' and Science were all examples of those traits which are sure to please coach Asanga Rodrigo but the only black ink has to be the smashing in the return leg of the shield. In a landscape where both Trinity and Royal consider the possession of the Bradby as pivotal compared other inferiorities that defeat will rankle-especially after the intend laden effort in Kandy a fortnight ago- the minds but the unbeaten league would at least smother the broken hearts.

Isipathana's runner up positions in both premier events highlight the confidence that coach Viraj Prasanna always put forward when articulating the prospects of his team and Devinda was the architect of many a rides they pieced throughout the year. The twinkle-toed runs of wingers which Isipathana was renowned for made an appearance and it was somewhat cruel that what ceased their challenge in the President's trophy final was the dislike to keep hold of the ball. Last year has given them an encouraging start so that they could brainstorm about this year in optimism filled frame of mind.

Science's tale of the tape in 2011 was remarkable as much as it was a true reflection of determination. After only a court case could cement their existence in the top flight, they went on a crusade to prove to everyone the justification of their instillation. And prove they did. Science coach said that this was a statement and that they intend to continue this revolution. With St.Thomas submerging to the II division, Mount Lavinia has an animated and sprightly ambassador to fill the void for now.

Science showed as much resilience and enterprise in their play as the SLSRFA (Sri Lanka schools rugby football association) was weak in organizing the President's trophy-League champions Royal pulled out, scheduled opening match met it's crescendo as Thurstan pulled out at the eleventh hour handing a walk-over win for Isipathana- and the promise that they'll take tough stances to prevent hiccups this year augurs well. It may have already being put to practise as for the first time in sometime all three divisions will have ten teams each which safeguards the analogy that has been visibly lacking. As for now to profess that there's room for improvement is no fallacy.

Match of the year- Royal vs St. Peters' at St.Peters' college grounds, Bambalapitiya.

A scoreline of 51-40 invites deception for there's daylight between the two sides in terms of scoring but with during the final 10 minutes, St.Peters' was leading by two points and was seemingly on their way to break the unbeaten streak of the visitors, but a missed penalty surrendered the advantage which otherwise could have sealed the match and Royal looked back in anger with two tries in the late drama. The atmosphere was deafening, passing rugby vintage and the result was humdinger. It was characterized by the obsession of both teams to hit back whenever there was the slightest hint that the match was slipping away from their grasp. No spectator left the open entourage of Bambalapitiya glum-faced.

Trinity- was without opposition to it- the best side of the year on paper but it began the season in the most capable way of squashing those early predictions as Science pulled the giant-killing act to full effect and then lost the first leg of the Bradby in jumbling fashion. The omens weren't good and it was to their credit that they took the wind out of the sails of Royal with the famous rout at the complex. The signs were there, they were warming to the task at the fag end and it was summoned when Trinity precisely dismantled Dharmaraja, St.Peters' and Isipathana in dismissive semblance to pocket the knockouts trophy after a lapse of 19 years.

The power-packed performances were a treat and the way the players and the coaching staff embraced coach Neilfer Ibrahim after the final whistle amidst the fading lights at Royal complex on the first day of October portrayed how much they wanted this to happen.

It wasn't the most sunlit evening in Colombo and familiar Lion which Trinity skipper carries to the ground may have been deprived of the usual sunburn of a trip to the capital from the cooler climates of Kandy, with two victories to be rejoiced for years to come at the complex this year, not that he was complaining though.





The government has taken steps to provide free passports to Lankan refugees living in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu to assist them repatriate with minimum costs.

President Rajapaksa who is also the Minister of Defence and Urban Development has authorised to waive the Rs. 4,400 fee to obtain a Sri Lankan passport for refugees in Tamil Nadu.

An initiative by President Mahinda Rajapaksa, the move is aimed at encouraging the repatriation of a large number of Sri Lankan Tamils living in refugee camps in Tamil Nadu back to their homes in Sri Lanka.

According to the Indian government, some 69,000 Sri Lankan refugees were living in 112 camps in Tamil Nadu, while some refugees have also settled in their own homes. More than 90,000 Sri Lankan Tamils, predominantly from the North and East of the country, fled to Tamil Nadu during the country's three-decade war with the the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Ealam (LTTE). Since the government's victory over the LTTE in 2009 and the gradual demining of the former LTTE territory, Lanka has concentrated on a massive resettlement and development drive.

Under Sri Lanka's Immigration and Emigration Act, the refugees are required to have a valid passport to land in Sri Lanka.

According to the United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) there has been a steady return of Lankan refugees, mainly from India, back into their country since the end of the war two-and-a-half years ago. (Khaleej Times)





The Castle Street Maternity Hospital is accused of issuing a list of items to each expectant mother to purchase from outside though the hospital is required to provide them.

This practice was limited to hand written form earlier, but at present the hospital had begun to issue a printed list of items to each expectant mother, All Ceylon Health Services Union (LCHSU) General Secretary Gamini Kumarasinghe told a media conference held at ACHSU head office yesterday.

Kumarasinghe said that each expectant mother in Castle Street Maternity hospital admitted for confinement was being issued a list of items such as pads, blades, enema bottle and cord clamps. These items were issued freely by the hospital a few months ago. But free supply of these items had ceased to exist.

The items required for mother and baby were hitherto being issued through tax money. Mothers who were extremely poor could not afford to purchase the items. It was the responsibility of the Health Ministry to rectify the wrong practice carried out by the hospital forthwith. The Health Ministry was beginning to exploit innocent patients by asking them to purchase hospital items needed by pregnant mothers and infants. This was a flagrant violation of the Health Act, he charged.

When contacted, Additional Secretary to the Health Ministry Dr. Palitha Maheepala said that the practice of requiring pregnant mothers purchase items was totally unacceptable. Some essential items needed by mother and infant had to be purchased by the mother. He would get all the details from the Maternity hospital and then take corrective action.

Castle Street Maternity Hospital Director Dr. W. K. Wickremasinghe said that on some occasions stocks of pads, gloves, blades and cord clamps were out of stock. On those occasions the hospital issued a to issue a list of few items to each expectant mother to purchase from outside. "I have inquired into the matter. I found that enema bottles, blades, pads and cord clamps should be purchased by the mother. This practice has been going on prior to my tenure of office, but in future I will take action to provide these four items to each mother free of charge," Dr. Wickremasinghe said.





The Bocuse d'Or Sri Lanka, along with the support of Sri Lanka Tourism and hoteliers has selected Buddika Samarasekara the chef of Colombo Hilton and Isuru Sampath as the apprentice chef of Colombo Hilton out of 11 finalists in Sri Lanka for the finals of Bocuse d'Or Asia, 2012. The first stage of the selections were held on 9th Monday at the Sri Lanka Institute of Tourism and Hotel Management, Colombo 03, followed by a gala dinner at the Hilton Colombo to select the two finalists on the same night.

Bocuse d'Or Asia, the Asian Final of the Bocuse d'Or global contest, is to be held in Shanghai from 12th to 14th June 2012, with the intension of selecting participants for the 15th Bocuse d'Or global finals in Lyon, France on 29th and 30th January 2013.

In Sri Lanka, Otto Weibel, the president of Bocuse d'Or Asia and Christophe Megel the president of Bocuse d'Or Singapore were busy in selecting the best Sri Lankan contestant for the Asian Finals, with the support of Rohan Fernandopulle, President of Bocuse d'Or Sri Lanka, Anura Dewapura Promotion Manager-Bocuse d'Or Sri Lanka and Alan Palmer, the Official Coach-Bocuse d'Or Sri Lanka.

Ever since the beginning of the contest in 1987 and its arrival to Asia in 1989, this is the first time that Sri Lanka has had the opportunity to showcase its culinary skills in the Asian Finals.

With the record 855,000 tourist arrivals during the previous year, Sri Lanka is looking forward to the Asian Finals with positive ambitions. Due to the variety of Sri Lankan cuisine that derives from its Sinhala, Tamil and Muslim cultural roots, Sri Lanka definitely has an advantage in the competition. The competition will also provide a golden opportunity for Sri Lanka to promote its unique spicy food products to the world and thereby strengthen its confidence in achieving the forecast of 2.5 million arrivals in 2015.

Paul Bocuse is a highly respected icon in the Culinary World and Bocuse d'Or competition provides young chefs the opportunity to demonstrate their skills, offering them a tremendous springboard for their careers.





Indian paceman Ishant Sharma could find himself in hot water after giving a middle-finger salute to locals during the team's visit to a go-karting track in Perth.

The incident comes only days after batsman Virat Kohli was fined half his match fee for the same gesture towards the crowd during the SCG Test. Kohli claimed on Twitter that spectators were shouting abuse about his mother and sister, but later expressed regret via a Board of Control for Cricket in India spokesman after being charged by the ICC match referee.

The latest drama is the last thing India needs as it aims to prevent Australia clinching the Border-Gavaskar trophy in the third Test, starting at the WACA on Friday.

It is understood Sharma was reacting to taunts from members of the public that India would find themselves down 3-0 in the series by the end of the Perth Test. The Indians were leaving the go-karting venue at the time he flashed the middle digit, and the image was captured by a photographer from the West Australian newspaper.

MS Dhoni's team has had three days off since their innings and 68 run defeat at the SCG, and chose to get their minds totally off cricket by heading go-karting.

They resumed training on Monday while Michael Clarke's Australian also kicked off preparations for Friday by training at the WACA on Monday.





NEW DELHI (AP) — Forty-two percent of children in India younger than 5 are underweight and nearly 60 percent are stunted, a new survey found.

The Hunger and Malnutrition Survey monitored over 100,000 children in 112 districts across nine states in the country from October 2010 to February of last year.

Prime Minister Manmohan Singh released the report Tuesday and called child malnutrition the country's shame.

India's economy has boomed, with growth over the last few years averaging about 8 percent, but the country's development indicators continue to be abysmal.

Singh released a summary of the report's findings and more details on its findings were not yet available.

The survey conducted by a group of non-profits was the largest such study since 2004, when the Indian government had surveyed child malnutrition. It was the first study by the group so comparative numbers are not available.

UNICEF's latest data say one-third of the world's malnourished children younger than 3 lives in India, a rate worse than sub-Saharan Africa.





Emirates, one of the fastest growing airlines in the world, launched its new Dublin route on Monday 9th January 2012. It is the third new route to be added to Emirates' route network in the opening days of 2012 as the airline forges forward with its global expansion.

After the launch of Rio de Janeiro in Brazil and Buenos Aires in Argentina on 3rd January 2012, the Irish capital took its position as Emirates' 118th destination, opening up a new efficient channel via Dubai to key markets such as Australia, India, Thailand, China and the Philippines.

Emirates will serve Dublin daily with an A330-200, providing First Class, Business Class and Economy Class travel. EK 0161 leaves Dubai at 0700hrs daily and arrives at Dublin Airport's Terminal 2 at 1130hrs. EK 0162 departs Dublin at 1255hrs and lands in Dubai at 0025hrs the next day.

"Today's launch is a tremendous development for both Irish business and Irish tourism, said Tim Clark, President, Emirates. "We are now connecting Ireland not only to Dubai, but also to over 100 destinations throughout the world. Solid early bookings have demonstrated that the demand is there, opening up new markets for passengers and cargo to and from the Republic."





The Government Medical Officers Association (GMOA) decided yesterday to withdraw from all transfer boards of doctors due to irregular transfers by the Health Ministry.

GMOA in a media release said the decision was taken by its Executive Committee "until the implementation of transparent transfer policy without any bias".

"Government medical officers association made several representations to the Director General and to the Secretary of Health, highlighting the necessity of adherence to the accepted transfer policies and to the Public Service Commission (PSC) orders, with regard to transfer and appointments of all categories of medical officers.

"We regret to note that they have failed to rectify several irregular transfers, despite our repetitive presentations," GMOA Secretary Dr. Chandika Epitakaduwa said in the release.





South Africa's Media Manager Lerato Malekutu prior to yesterday's media briefing with A. B. de Villiers had a question for a touring Sri Lankan journalist. 'Is Thilan Samaraweera part of the ODI squad?' Don't be surprised if that exactly was the question on most of the South Africans' mind, leading up to the ODI leg of the cricket series between the two countries.

Samaraweera's has been some sort of a Cinderella Story. Despite being the best player in the side of spin bowling, he was dropped for the spin-friendly conditions in UAE against Pakistan and was initially overlooked for South Africa, one of the toughest tours in the world and later added only as cover for an injured player. And after coming here, he creates history by hitting back-to-back hundreds.

Such were Sri Lanka's struggles in the Tests series that captain T. M. Dilshan, his deputy Angelo Mathews and premier batsman Mahela Jayawardene managed just two half-centuries among them.

The festive season certainly had gone into Dilshan's head as he was in Santa Claus mood ever willing to throw away his wicket to whichever the South African bowler who sought it while Jayawardene is becoming famous in South Africa as a 'flat track bully' for in 45 innings in this country, in both Test and ODI cricket, he has managed just five half-centuries! So much for him being a better batsman than Aravinda de Silva!

Question of the absence of Samaraweera in ODIs has featured frequently since his second century on tour at Newlands when Sri Lanka's batting had collapsed twice in good batting conditions and Dilshan is sure to get a few more during the series.

Yesterday the question was asked again and Dilshan defended the selectors' decision. "Thilan has played Test cricket usually in the last few years. We want to groom a few youngsters for the next World Cup and that's why we have retained Lahiru Thirimanne. Guys like him need to get as much experience as possible and get ready for the next World Cup. That's the main idea. As selectors and senior players, we discussed and I think it's the right way to move forward," Dilshan told journalists yesterday.

Point granted. But the World Cup in Australia is not starting next year and there's no guarantee that the trio of Dilshan, Jayawardene and Kumar Sangakkara are going to be around for 2015 when it will be held. Plus, Dilshan's age is as same as that of Thilan while the two former captains are not far behind.

Ours is not a call to make Samaraweera a permanent member of the ODI squad in place of someone else. But it's a call based on simple logic. The World Cup is three years away and Sri Lanka's batsmen have had issues in the Test series in South Africa and those are the two reasons for Samaraweera to have been persevered with in the ODIs.

No one should, at the same time, get carried away with his exploits in Tests and call for his inclusion in the ODI squad. Take the case of Hashan Tillakaratne. He toured South Africa in 2002 and while the second Test in Centurion was in progress, the ODI squad was announced. Two days later, Tillakaratne became the first Sri Lankan to score a hundred in South Africa and the selectors, sensing that his experience would be useful, recalled him for the subsequent ODI series. Hashan at that stage had last played in an ODI three years before. Samaraweera meanwhile was part of Sri Lanka's ODI squad during the World Cup.

Furthermore, India's selectors recalled Rahul Dravid at the age of 37 in England after India suffered a 4-0 whitewash in the Test series. Samaraweera is 35.

But anyway, we thought that age is not an issue with the current selectors. It was the same lot that recalled Sanath Jayasuriya to play an ODI and a T-20 International in England a week before his 42nd birthday. And, having had the guts to do the unthinkable, less than six months after, why should they be complaining that age is in fact an issue?

Thilan Samaraweera has proved his critics wrong. Prior to this tour Sri Lanka's record in South Africa was horrendous. The team had lost six of the seven Tests played in this country before while only one Sri Lankan had scored a hundred here.

He gave us back-to-back Test hundreds batting in the toughest of conditions with world's number one ranked bowler Dale Steyn fired up. It was his efforts that helped Sri Lanka win a first-ever Test in South Africa. His 'bullets' after the Durban hundred may well have been targeted at some of the selectors who have had horror records playing for the country. While Don Anurasiri played 45 ODIs as a left-arm spinner and took 32 wickets, Ranjith Madurusinghe played 12 ODIs as an off-spinner and took just five wickets. The two men have put more years as national selectors than Sir Don Bradman, Sir Richard Hadlee and Sir Viv Richards put together. Thilan Samaraweera... take a bow sir!









Japan being one of the top shipbuilding nations in the world and Colombo Dockyard being a shipyard operating in collaboration with Onomichi Dockyard Company Limited of Japan exchanged views at great length about the shipbuilding/ ship repairing industry. Already Colombo Dockyard utilizes the efficient and reliable Japanese Supply network to good extent for the Shipyard's shipbuilding and ship repair projects.

On completion of the briefing, the entire delegation was taken on a guided tour of the Shipyard. HE Nobuhito Hobo was impressed with the performance and capabilities of the Colombo Dockyard and commended the good work being performed by the Shipyard and wished for future success.





Kulisa Nanayakkara becomes international rated chess player

January 11, 2012, 7:15 am

Kulisa Nanayakkara

Kulisa Saranath Nanayakkara of St. Nicholas International College, Negombo is one of the youngest Sri Lankan chess players ever to achieve FIDE ratings in newly published ratings list by the World Chess Federation. The 8-year-old Kulisa was able to reach this milestone within a short period of time in his career.

The youngster began chess by following the footsteps of his brother Gajitha, who was keen to learn chess and started playing the game at home. The little champion won his 1st gold medal at the Negombo Division Chess Tournament in 2011 (Under-8). This victory motivated him to improve in chess and drove him towards achieving international chess ratings later.

He won the Silver medal (Ur-9) at the National Rapid Chess Tournament 2011 and became the Equal Champion (Ur-8) at the 4th Mora Kings International Chess Tournament 2011, third equal at Ethugalpura International Chess Tournament 2011, champion at Gampaha District Chess Tournament 2011 and won either a gold, silver or bronze medal at almost every event he participated.

Kulisa is also one of the brightest students in his school. He always ends up ranked first at exams and wins lots of prizes at the School Prize-giving Ceremonies. Not only in studies, but also in piano music, he is showing talents which he has proven by obtaining Distinction Passes in piano music exams conducted by the Trinity College of London.

He learnt his chess from Mrs. Sanoja Perera and at present he is guided by Asiri Peramunugama. Kulisa is looking forward to be successful in year 2012 as well as he was in last year, under the guidance and blessings of his coaches.





After failing to resume generation of electricity since last Friday's fire, Norachcholai Power Plant or Lak Wijaya Power Plant General Manager, Saliya Panditharatne yesterday assured that the plant would be connected to the national grid last evening.

He said that it would be connected to the grid before the peak demand supply –after 7.30 p.m last night.

He told The Island yesterday that since the commissioning of the plant from last year, they were still in the process of rectifying defects.

"This very first coal powered plant the country is not an ordinary one. There are high probabilities for mistakes. However, since taking over we have learned a lot about it," he said.

The Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) promised to resume electricity generation within hours after the latest fire broke out at the Norachcholai Power plant in the early hours of last Friday. However, it has taken so far five days to resume operations.

The plant generates six million units per day and when it is out of order in its absence the power shortfall has to be met with costly thermal power.





The personalized stamp promoting the LTTE that was distributed in Canada by has never been printed by Canada Post it is a false representation says Canada Post Corporation's President and CEO Deepak Chopra in a communication to the Sri Lankan High Commissioner,Chitranganee Wagiswara in Canada.

He was replying to a letter sent by the High Commissioner to him and the Minster of Post by Canada concerning the alleged print of a personalized stamp bearing LTTE symbols by Canada Post.

The stamp in question published by Tamil Youth Organization – Canada (TYO) depicted a map of the land mass of the sovereign territory of Sri Lanka which the LTTE sought to establish a mono-ethnic racist state called "Eelam" for the exclusive residence of the Sri Lankan Tamils by force of arms including suicide terrorism. On the face of the stamp, the words 'I REMEMBER TAMIL GENOCIDE' has been printed from the top to the bottom on the left hand side.

The personal stamp referred to 'was not printed by our Picture Postge programe and is in no way part of our official philatelic program, which goes through a very careful selection process including approval by our Board of Directors", said Canadian Post CEO in his communication to the Sri Lankan High Commissioner in Canada.

Earlier La Poste of France also denied that similar stamps printed by pro-LTTE group there were official. La Poste issuing a statement also apologized for the lapse on their part which made it possible for pro-LTTE groups to use its name.





Financial markets found "some relief on the lack of specific negative news," analysts at Credit Agricole CIB said in a report.

Improving economic data out of the U.S. was another factor working in favor of markets, said Cameron Peacock of IG Markets in Melbourne. The U.S. added 200,000 jobs in December in a burst of hiring that drove the unemployment rate down two notches to 8.5 percent, its lowest in almost three years, and led economists to conclude that the improvement in the job market might just last.

"With all the problems of the last few years, and the emergence of China as a legitimate economic superpower, it should not be forgotten that the U.S. is still the world's largest and most influential economy," Peacock said.

Olympus Corp. soared 21.5 percent after the Japanese camera and medical equipment maker announced it was suing 19 current and former executives for damages over fraudulent accounting that took place to hide staggering investment losses in the 1990s. The stock is still trading at about half its value prior to the scandal.

But Japanese exporters continued to feel the pinch of a strong yen, which lowers the value of expatriated profits and makes Japanese products more expensive overseas.

Stocks jumped in mainland China for a second day, as investors continued to cheer Premier Wen Jiabao's promise last weekend to channel lending to entrepreneurs who have been battered by weak global demand.

European markets closed lower Monday. French and German leaders met to craft the regional fiscal treaty that they agreed to pursue last year.

The treaty would strengthen controls of spending by the 17 countries that use the euro. Excessive borrowing by nations such as Greece has hurt the European economy and roiled the financial industry.

Greece, Ireland and Portugal have all been bailed out but the fear in the markets is that much-bigger Italy and Spain may end up needing financial assistance. The yield on Italy's benchmark 10-year bonds on Monday continued to hover around the 7 percent mark, widely considered to be unsustainable in the long run.

Benchmark crude for February delivery rose 43 cents to $101.71 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract fell 25 cents to settle at $101.31 in New York on Monday.

In currency trading, the euro rose to $1.2790 from $1.2762 late Monday in New York. The dollar fell to 76.81 yen from 76.89 yen.





The government is under pressure to review a controversial formula under which four key state institutions, namely the Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB), Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (CPC), National Water Supply and Drainage Board (NWSDB) and the Sri Lanka Ports Authority (SLPA) are given substantial salary increases.

Ministerial sources told The Island that the national economy couldn't meet unions' demand for a staggering 15 per cent yearly salary hike for those employed at cash-strapped institutions. Asked whether any other state sector institution had given such an increment to its employees, sources said the aforesaid outfits got preferential treatment.

CPC, CEB, NWSDB and SLPA trade unions affiliated to the UNP, the JVP and the ruling SLFP are demanding a 45 per cent salary increase (15 per cent annual increase for a three-year period effective Jan. 2012).

Responding to a query, sources said that even at the height of the war those workers had been given huge salary increases, though others were asked to tighten their belts for the sake of the country.

In 2003, employees of those four institutions received 23 per cent increase, 33 per cent in 2006 and 22 per cent in 2009. Sources said that in Oct. 2011, trade unions demanded a staggering 45 per cent increase for 2012-2015 period warning of dire consequences unless the government met their demand.

The CEB pays PAYE tax of its employees while incurring staggering losses.

The Committee on Public Enterprises (COPE), too, has highlighted the failure on the part of the government to adopt a cohesive policy with regard to salary and other payments given to state-sector employees. COPE alleged that the government due to its short-sighted policy had created a super section within the public sector at the expense of the national economy.





Creating a major setback on the country's prospects at the forthcoming highly challenging Davis Cup tie against strong Thailand, scheduled for next February, Sri Lanka's predominant Davis Cup campaigner for the past seven years, Harshana Godamanna, yesterday told 'The Island' that he is not going to play in next month's Davis Cup due to personal commitments.

The Sri Lanka versus Thailand Davis Cup Asia-Oceania Zone Group-II tie is to be held at the Sri Lanka Tennis Association clay courts in Colombo from Feb. 10 to 12.

"I'll definitely not play for Sri Lanka this time in the Davis Cup. I might be able to play only in the 2nd round Davis Cup tie (scheduled for April 6-8, 2012) depending on my commitments to my university (in the USA)," said Godamanna, 26, who holds the best all-time Davis Cup record for Sri Lanka having an impeccable 48-15 win-lose record in this virtual men's World Cup of tennis.

Godamanna, since his Davis Cup debut in 2002, has been single-handedly carried country's hopes in this pivotal international tournament since 2005 while helping Sri Lanka regain the respectable Group-II entry twice.





HDFC bank expanded its branch network with the opening of its 30th and 31st branches in Gampola and Kuliyapitiya recently.

Gampola branch, located at No.134, Kandy road, Gampola was opened by the Chief guest, HDFC bank Chairperson Mrs. Siromi Wickramasinghe. S. Dissanayake CEO /GM was the Chief Guest of the Kuliyapitiya branch opening. The opening ceremony was attended by customers in the area, other distinguished guests and HDFC staff members.





The reformist group of the UNP accuses party leader Ranil Wickremesinghe of accommodating a UPFA agent in the decision making Working Committee, thereby making it easy for President Mahinda Rajapaksa to manipulate the main opposition party.

The Reformists are on the warpath over the appointment of Central Provincial Council member and head of the UNP women's arm, Lakvanitha organisation Shanthini Kongahage to the WC due to her husband, Sarath, being a government loyalist.

The Reformists pushed for the appointment of Ratnapura District MP, Thalatha Atukorale, the eldest sister of Gamini Atukarale, the late General Secretary of the party. Atukorale had incurred the wrath of the Wickremesinghe camp for joining forces with the reformists, sources said.

Asked whether the Reformists had credible information to prove that the Lakvanitha chief was passing on information to the government through her husband, sources emphasised that there couldn't be any secrets between husband and wife. The bottomline was that the government was running an agent in the party's highest decision making body, other than the Advisory Committee, set up in line with the new Constitution adopted by the UNP in 2010.

Sarath Kongahage was recently appointed as Sri Lanka's ambassador to Germany after serving as Rupavahini Chairman. The UNP shouldn't have considered Shanthini, twice unsuccessful UNP candidate at parliamentary polls, especially after Sarath caused a debilitating setback to the joint UNP-JVP project to help Gen.Sarath Fonseka win the Jan. 2010 presidential poll. Independent presidential candidate Kongahage launched an all-out attack on Gen. Fonseka to facilitate President Rajapaksa's victory.

During Kongahage's tenure as Rupavahini Chief, he came under heavy flak for backing Shanthini's political project.

The Rebels emphasised that Shanthini's appointment wasn't an isolated one. In fact, the Working Committee had been packed by Wickremesinghe's loyalists, such as the Opposition Leader of the Eastern Provincial Council, Daya Gamage and his wife and National List MP Anoma. Former Secretary General of Parliament, Priyani Wijesekera, too, has been appointed to the WC due to her loyalty to Wickremesinghe.

The Rebels said that no one except Wickremesinghe could be held responsible for the deterioration of the party. Wickremesinghe's implicit trust in the international community's ability to rein in the LTTE and the foolish handling of the CFA had caused the downfall of the party.





After successfully completing an event-filled 2011, Sri Lanka's leading menswear specialist Hameedia has embarked on a journey to further strengthen its position as THE total fashion solutions provider for all Sri Lankan males and significantly expand its reach across the country and region with an unparalleled product offering.

Led by the Deputy Managing Director Hussain Sadique and the top management, Hameedia staff started work for the New Year following tradition with multi-religious observances at the Head Office in Borupana Ratmalana. Taking a bottom-up approach the management has revised the Company's Vision and Mission, and established its corporate values. These were unveiled on the first day of work.

"Hameedia is a large family consisting of over 850 members. As a family we have steered the ship through calm and stormy seas. 2012 is going to be a promising and rewarding year for the entire Hameedia family as we take on the months to come with greater determination and zeal," Sadique said.

Staff motivation at Hameedia is high across the board. The eight hours of volunteer work by each employee adds up to 6,800 plus hours of community service work by the 850-strong team at Hameedia. This service rendered by the staff is both at individual and group level. They work in groups on community projects. As individuals they share their experience and knowledge with schools, charities, institutions. This exercise makes them 'self sufficient', thus reducing dependency on others and thereby enhancing the self-dignity of all involved. This will continue throughout the New Year adding value to the staff, the company and society at large.

Early next month will be the Awards Night at the Nelum Pokuna at which top employees who have contributed to the success of the Company will be rewarded.

Hameedia's Managing Director Fouzul Hameed (who is currently overseas) in his message said, "We've planned to re-invigorate our currently widest selection of world class brands & product offerings such as made-to-measure, ward robe consultancy, bespoke tailoring etc and thereby service our thousands of customers with aplomb. We have signed exclusive agreements with more international brands thus enabling Hameedia to be the master franchisee of a greater range of superlative products. Also in the pipeline are a host of customer-centric activities which will be unfolded in the months to come".

Harnessing the diverse talents of the staff will be the launch of daily in-house broadcasts. This will feature news, special messages, music etc which will be compiled and presented by the staff. Initially operative at the Head Office, Stores and Factory, this feature will subsequently be extended to all Hameedia outlets across the country during the year.

"Looking back on our multitude of employee centric activities in 2011, I believe the highlight was the fact that we engaged ourselves in corporate planning sessions in order to set the strategic direction of the group. We also re-launched the Hameedia song. The annual staff excursion was held at the Heritance Hotel Ahungalla to which the entire staff was driven along the newly opened Southern highway", said Manager Marketing and Sales, Leroy Ebert.

"As we seek greater prospects and explore more opportunities in 2012, our key focus will be on our staff. We believe that if we look after our employees well, they will, in turn, look after our customers ... and the rest falls into place", Sadique concluded.





NEW DELHI, January 10: A group of political activists protesting against Sri Lankan President Mahinda Rajapaksa today attacked Thirukumar Nadesan, husband of the President's niece and Member of Parliament Nirupama Rajapaksa, in Rameswaram in Tamil Nadu.

According to information reaching here, the attack occurred when Nadesan was coming out of a house after performing puja. He was on a two-day visit to Rameswaram to offer prayers at the Sri Ramanathaswamy temple.

Activists of Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK) and Nam Tamilar Iyakkam came to know about Nadesan's arrival, and laid seige to a house at Nadutheru, where he was performing puja.

As Nadesan emerged from the house, the activists led by MDMK youth wing's deputy secretary Karate Palanisamy attacked him with black flag sticks and their footwear.

The priests, who accompanied Nadesan from the house, promptly pulled him back into the house and closed the door.

The policemen posted at the place for providing security to Nadesan promptly swung into action and removed the agitators from the scene.

Details about the nature of injuries Nadesan suffered were not available. However, he reportedly received blows from the agitators.

To avoid further trouble, the police hurriedly escorted him to a hotel from the house. He vacated the hotel immediately, and resumed his journey with tight police protection.





Sri Lankans have happy memories of Paarl. The last time they were here at Boland Park eight years ago, they won an ODI with more than 45 overs to spare. The opposition was Canada and after putting them in, the Sri Lankan bowlers dismissed them for 36 runs, the lowest total in a World Cup match and the second lowest ever in an ODI.

The hero for Sri Lanka weren't the usual stalwarts, but fast bowler Prabath Nissanka, who ran through the opposition's middle-order.

Nissanka last played for Sri Lanka at the age of 22 and it's a shame that this promising talent from Matara could not blossom due to a combination of knee injuries and attitude problems. Today the political clout he enjoys has made him a 'prominent figure'in cricket circles taking on even the Minister of Sports. Nissanka early this year made the trip to India to strike a deal with Indian cricket officials so that country's IPL contracted players didn't return home early to go to England as per required by Mahindananda Aluthgamage.

Borland Park has not hosted any international games since the 2003 World Cup and a full house is expected for today's day-night encounter.

The players will have to adjust to playing in extreme heat here with temperature touching nearly 40 degrees Celsius. The Proteas yesterday opted not to train here and have their net session at Newlands in Cape Town instead. Paarl is about an hour's drive from Cape Town and the Sri Lankans made that journey yesterday to have a practice session that lasted for more than three hours.

Sri Lanka have not won an ODI series since beating West Indies in a home series early last year. Since then Sri Lanka have suffered series losses to England, Australia and Pakistan with middle order batting failing time and again.

"We played good cricket in those three series at times, but we weren't consistent enough. If we can be consistent here we can finish fell in this series. We have discussed a few things and the important thing is to start well tomorrow (today)," Sri Lanka captain T.M. Dilshan told journalists yesterday.

The Proteas will be led by A.B. de Villiers in the ODI series as the South African selectors decided to split the captaincy of the national team. Graeme Smith, the Test captain, is still a member of the ODI unit and will open batting.

De Villiers was appointed captain after South Africa failed to go beyond the quarter-finals of the World Cup in March last year, but he has not led the side as yet. He missed the home series against Australia last year due to injury and the Proteas were led by Hashim Amla.

"It has taken a while. I was disappointed to have missed out against Australia but it worked out really well for me. I got to see strategies from the side of the field and learn from that."

He was also asked on captaining Smith, who has led South Africa in all forms of cricket in the last eight years. "We are different people. I am younger, less experienced. You can expect a couple more mistakes. I won't be scared to try out new things and a bit of flair. We know each other very well and we've played a few years together. I know he will be on my shoulder but he has told me that he will let me captain the way I want to," De Villiers said.





