The fact that Indo-Lanka ties have continued largely unruffled over the past few years is proof of a constructive bent in the regional policy adopted by Sri Lanka since 2005. It is possible to make out that Sri Lanka is, indeed, at present, following a policy of 'friendship towards all' in relation to at least its closest neighbours in South Asia, and that this policy parameter is proving beneficial to the states considered.

The same cannot be said of Sri Lanka's relations with some of the foremost powers of the West and we hope President Rajapaksa would 'deliver' on a reassuring observation he made to journalists a few days back, while discussing foreign policy issues, that solutions' would be found to Sri Lanka's current strained relations with the Western powers concerned.

The earlier this damage-control exercise takes place the better because Sri Lanka's interests would not be served in the long term through a chronically troubled relationship with the West. The facts need to be faced squarely. Sri Lanka needs the West more than the latter needs it. This does not mean that Sri Lanka should cave-in to what are seen as unfair Western demands but that Sri Lanka should enter into a relationship with the West which is both of a constructive and creative nature. Sri Lanka's foreign policy establishment may have to 'think out of the box' and a consistent and earnest adoption of the policy of Non-alignment could prove beneficial in this undertaking.

The current global power balance is, of course, tilted strongly in favour of the West but India has, generally speaking, followed a policy of Non-alignment in its dealings with the international community and the equidistance it has managed to maintain in its inter-state ties has earned for it an exemplary degree of independence in foreign policy decision-making.

Sri Lanka may not be in a position to effectively ward off what is seen as pressure from the West on those sensitive humanitarian issues that the latter stages of its 'war against terror' raised last year, by forging closer ties with authoritarian regimes which have been driven by the West into 'international pariahood' over the years, because some of these states are themselves currently dialoguing with the West, on realizing the counter-productive nature of a policy of international isolation. The harsh realities of an unequal world cannot be wished away; they need to be lived with and remedied, if possible. What Sri Lanka needs is a more cordial approach to those 'overbearing' powers, which would, perhaps, pave the way for a reasoned dialogue on unresolved issues.

There are no simple answers to these issues. What should be amply clear is that Sri Lanka needs to follow a foreign policy which would promote international empathy with its lot. This calls for local foreign policy perspectives that generate a complex awareness of global realities.

Coming back to immediate neighbours, it should be clear that Sri Lanka cannot afford to get into an antagonistic relationship with any of them. The virtues of a constructive relationship with neighbours were driven home in the past months when both India and Pakistan offered unstinted assistance to Sri Lanka in a number of spheres, in its 'war against LTTE terror'. Besides, we need to remember that Pakistan too is currently a democracy and that its approach to particularly the West at present, is not without its lessons.

A priority for the Mahinda Rajapaksa administration in the emerging months, would be the revival of the 'SAARC spirit'. The urgency of this task is underscored by a tendency on the part of some South Asian states to succumb to the now notorious 'anti-India phobia'. This, does the thrust to forge harmony in the SAARC region considerable harm, because the 'phobia'-affected states usually give in to machinations from outside the region to drive a deep wedge between them and India. A ring of states hostile to India, would advance the aims of these 'extra-regional' powers to divide the SAARC states indefinitely and to undermine India's status as a principal economic, political and military power in Asia.

However, the proof is ready at hand that India bears no ill-will against smaller neighbours, such as Sri Lanka. If harming Sri Lanka's legitimate interests was on India's 'agenda', it could very well have done so at the height of this country's Northern war. But the opposite proved true and jingoistic opinion in particularly Southern Sri Lanka was proved wrong in the most conclusive terms. If Sri Lanka is to enter into a more constructive relationship with its neighbours, extremist opinion should be snubbed into silence. A constructive, mutually-beneficial relationship with India is very much within the realms of the possible.

Meanwhile, Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari is proving to be a deft handler of the West. Besides getting positive assurances recently from visiting US President's Special Envoy for Pakistan and Afghanistan Richard Holbrook, that the initiation of US drone attacks on Pakistani territory and a controversial US screening procedure for Pakistani citizens would be reviewed, the Pakistani President was forthright on the issue that development was what was most needed in Pakistan. The Pakistani President steered clear of the beaten track of the need for military aid to tackle the 'terror menace'.

Besides underscoring the need for 'mutual respect and trust' in US-Pakistani ties, Zardari is on record that 'democratic stability in Pakistan is contingent upon advancement of the development agenda in which the US and other industrialized countries could play a vital role'.

It was also pointed out that 'the economic cost of the war against terror had risen to US $ 35 billion over the last eight years' and that 'it has nearly paralyzed Pakistan's economy'.

Needless to say, this amounts to putting Pakistani realities in the correct perspective. It is development for all that would help contain the problems of quite a few Heads of State and government in South Asia, Sri Lanka's included. Our governments need to blare forth this message, rather than breathe fire about the need to put down 'terror' through the acquiring of more and more military hardware, which eventually only runs economies to the ground and bolsters the fire-power of rulers.





