The cloak of human rights for the purpose of intervention is a more recent invention of western paternalism enabling intrusion into societies not under we stern sponsorship such as Bosnia, Sudan, Somalia, Haiti, Sierra Leone East Timor, Congo, Iraq, Kosovo Afghanistan, and Cambodia. A unique feature on examination of the listed countries is that the turf is prepared for the human rights interventions always to weaker and underdeveloped states based on the philosophy of John Stuart Mills that the "civilising imperialism of western powers could help to protect the rights of the oppressed and backward elsewhere in the world". The case for human rights is based on the premise that in an increasingly globalized world there is the emergence of a universal citizen and human rights are on the same platform as international terrorism, drug trafficking, ozone depletion and HIV aids. De facto rule over a territory by a state is no longer held to legitimise the denial of justice and human rights which must be decided by an objective outsider. An elected government should no longer have the final say on what constitutes justice and rights of its own citizens. An act of war is said to be justifiable to defend human rights that are felt to under threat or to have been extensively violated. These military operations are deemed in the West as moral and ethical when conflicts occur between or within non western states.

The western powers carried a declared humanitarian war in Yugoslavia in a bid to protect the Albanian population from alleged Serbian persecutions within state boundaries. NATO warplanes conducted a 78 day air war which decimated the infrastructure of the country but the ethnic conflicts still continues to simmer. Already fragile boundaries after the war fragmented the country into several more states which was a European design to carve up the state of Yugoslavia once the vanguard of the non- aligned movement under Marshall Tito. These mini states of the former Yugoslavia are desirous of seeking admission to the European Union-undoubtedly an attractive proposition to Western interest. The next humanitarian adventure of the Western powers was the entry to Afghanistan to drive away a Taliban government on the pretext of violating the freedom of the Afghan people and introducing democracy but more weighted were the security concerns after September 11 and seeking a base to dominate Central Asia with new states emerging with the disintegration of Soviet Russia. The entry into Iraq was again on publicised humanitarian considerations such as providing people with freedom and democracy including the elimination of the non existing Weapons of Mass Destruction and the hunger thirst for the sprawling oil fields. The Western presence has caused more deaths and destruction than in period of Saddam Hussein and intensified ethnic strife between the Sunnis and the Shiites. All the wars fought in the name of human rights in Yugoslavia Afghanistan and Iraq were fought on extraneous causes taking priority over the sovereign rights of a nation state or the human rights of the people. These conflicts demonstrate the triumph of the new doctrine of human rights over sovereignty notwithstanding the breach of international law as these military campaigns were conducted without UN Security Council authorisation. The justification was on the basis that democracy freedom and human rights were being restored. But these same Western powers failed to recognise Hamas when it was democratically elected at an election that was declared free and fair and these champions of human rights punished the Palestinian voters for exercising their democratic rights by freezing funds and imposing sanctions on their economic necessities. Elections have been held in Iraq, Afghanistan East Timor, Kosovo and Bosnia but power still resides with the high priests of the invading forces without transferring it to the democratically elected representatives giving impetus to the theory that the Western powers are engaged in a subdued but effective form of human rights colonialism where they are no prepared to surrender their economic gains obtained in occupied territory. The powers that entered these countries have remained indefinitely.

A remarkable feature is that in the past, peace activists of the past who launched massive anti war demonstrations against wars conducted by powerful states of the west which made such an impact as to make America withdraw from Vietnam are now replaced by the NGO's as peace missionaries specialising in conflict resolution and peace education and in their curriculum humanitarian wars are an acceptable proposition. Therefore NGO activists such as Amnesty International, Medicine without Borders, Human Rights Watch are strong supporters of these humanitarian wars conducted by the Western Powers just as much are the political forces of the Social Democratic Left of European politics who have become the high priests of intervention. They have set their ethical agenda of human rights to portrait barbaric aspects of human nature reside in economically backward societies of the non Western world which has to be countered by just and honourable humanitarian military action of the western states.

Yet, during the Rwandan civil war, hundreds of thousands of men, women and children from Tutsi tribes were slaughtered by rival Hutus militias yet the American administration of Clinton refused to intervene but also influenced the UN Security Council to mandate the withdrawal of UN peacekeepers from Rwanda and block efforts to redeploy them. The subsequent catastrophe turned out to be such an embarrassment to the Washington administration that Clinton in 1998 made a formal apology in the face of the angry voices of condemnation on the ground they did not fully appreciate the reality situation. It appears both America and Russians are closing their eyes and ears to the human rights violations of each other while paying attention to the human rights violations of the others-otherwise how else could gulags of terror be established on foreign soil while preaching human rights at home.

The image of Pol Pot still lingers on as the Field Marshall of killing fields of Cambodia which accounted for the most grotesque forms of human rights violations in Asia but yet when his government was ousted by the Vietnamese forces and he took sanctuary in the jungles of Thailand; the UN on the instigation of the western powers decided to recognise Pol Pot wearing the butches apron in the jungle rather than the government in Phnom Penh with years in office. The UN recognition for Pol Pot meant international aid could not flow to the Cambodian people by the UNDP and allied UN agencies and health facilities could not be provided by the WHO to a country where by Western estimates 600000 had been killed previously by American carpet bombing when the US decided to destroy the Ho Chin Mihn trail which ferried supplies to Vietnam across Cambodia .It was the US bombing that enabled Pol Pot to come to power and led to the slaughter of two million people. The Cambodians were reeling under a double blow from the Americans and Pol Pot, became the only country on the planet denied aid and assistance due to UN continuing to recognise an ousted Pol Pot. To make it worse the US government decided to supply arms and the UN supplied food and seed convoys to the ousted Pol Pot the worst offender of human rights in Asia living in the jungles off Thailand while making preparations to re enter Cambodia. There was a common plank - Americans had killed a million Cambodians in a secret war that was not known to the American people or the Congress and Pol Pot had eliminated 1/3 of the Cambodian population. The role of the Human Rights Commission now headed by Louise Arbour on Cambodia is more bewildering as it refused to consider a report of 955 pages of testimony on mass violation of Human Rights in Cambodia. For 10 more years UN rejected all efforts by the Cambodian government to bring Khmer Rouge leaders to justice and from all official documentation at the Peace Talks at Paris where the UN was a participant, phrases such as 'crimes against 'humanity' and 'genocide' were deleted from the script to allow Pol Pot to gain recognition and respectability.The background was that Western Powers were anxious to enter the Chinese market at the relevent time, ASEAN nations were keen to pander to China who was supporting Pol Pot because a pro Vietnamese government was in office in Phnom Penh; and the Americans were still smarting after been defeated by the Vietnamese who were clients of Russia in a period the cold war was still in progress between America and Russia. It was 30 years later in guilt and shame that UN were prepared to hold a tribunal to investigate human rights crimes in Cambodian, and the chief culprit Khieu Samphan the political face of the Khmer Rogue was arrested by the Genocide Tribunal on Monday this week. Pol Pot was permitted to die peacefully in Thailand after having remarried. It was the pressure exerted by the western powers that saved the Khmer Rouge and Pol Pot from any form of inquiry for 30 years which reveals the extent the UN Human Rights Commission is manipulated by the desires of the Western Powers.

Firstly, we have allowed every prime issue to be internationalised from good governance to conflict resolution, poverty alleviation to forest conservation. This has brought the NGO caravans who have now pitched tent and become the mouth piece and the reporting authority to international forums.

Secondly, as an independent country without any alignment to any power block we are without a sponsor or guarantor .We also present our case poorly before international forums

Thirdly, we have by following incorrect policies made our country economically backward while holding untapped energy sources under the sea bed and being strategically situated in the major sea lanes attractive to predators.

Fourthly, due to poor governance, mismanagement, corruption, inefficiency and unstable political alignments attempts may be made to portrait us as a failed state.

Fifthly, our inability to control a terrorist movement which is causing wanton damage and the reluctance to examine and consider the relief that can be given to the legitimate grievances of the minorities.

Sixthly, in our midst is an elite society who are inviting intervention to improve their way of live which cannot be achieved due to lack of public support for causes they peddle

How do we overcome these obstacles?

Firstly-the foreign NGO's must be scrutinised and if discovered to be against national security should be expelled.

Secondly-the state must involve patriotic persons with skill, dedication and motivation to present Sri Lanka's case before international forums and not restrict to politicians and administrators who have not been successful.

Thirdly we must urgently attend to minority grievances within a unitary concept. Otherwise a tinkering of the constitution will be required which may not receive the sanction of the people at a referendum and the problem will continue to fester.

Fourthly, have an effective internal mechanism to check and stricture on human rights by establishing a genuinely independent Human Rights Commission with men of integrity, strength and wisdom.

For example in Pakistan in the province Baluch where Pakistan's natural resources are located a terrorist movement has been in operation for years seeking an independent state and where the Pakistan forces have been involved in aerial and land skirmishes. Pakistan has not permitted to permit the issue to be internationalised issue and it is virtually unknown to the NGO community. The main reason is because the Pakistan Human Rights Commission has acted independently and has not been afraid to stricture the government and the terrorists and recommended remedial measures.

Fifthly, to demonstrate positively our strengths of a vibrant democracy, independent judiciary and enforceable fundamental rights, active media, political dissent, high rate of literacy, universal health care and most significantly the government providing facilities to persons in areas under terrorist control and infrastructural benefits

Sixthly, the most important factor is to build public opinion against international intervention and motivate the public to rally against such possible intervention. Fortunately patriotic causes have always had public support which has been contrary to the elitist thinking in Colombo, which has saved the country. The silent majority has always being with the patriotic forces and the critical requirement for the present is to provide an enlightened leadership and lead the people with moderation. Historically where proper leadership was given the people have given their overwhelming support.





