In implementing a National Science and Technology Policy, institutions involved should harmonize with a common policy, Science and Technology Minister Tissa Vitarana said. They should be prepared to make certain attitudinal changes." Vitarana, was the Chief Guest at a ceremony organized by the National Science and Technology Commission (NASTEC), to present the National Science and Technology Policy, yesterday.

He said that in Sri Lanka the ICT literacy rate is about 18-20 percent, although it should have been increased up to over 50 per cent.

"Thus, intelligent young people become frustrated. Excellent documents need to be put into practice. Innovative people are not in a position to put their innovations into practice."

Vitarana thanked those involved in drafting the National Science and Technology Policy and especially commended the efforts put in by the Chairman of NASTEC, Professor Nalini Ratnasiri.

In developing this policy NASTEC has gone through an extensive consultation process and the policy deals with issues on two major aspects; development of Science and Technology in the country, and the application of Science and Technology for national development, he said.

He believes that the policy will form the basis of other detailed policies in specific areas in science and technology which will become incorporated into the strategic plans of the related institutions.

As the implementation will be under the purview of a range of science and technology institutions in the country, reporting to various line ministries, the policy recommends the establishment of an inter-ministerial committee chaired by the Head of State with the Minister of Science and Technology as the Vice Chairman.

The Ministry of Science and Technology will function as the executive arm of this committee to ensure the successful coordination and implementation of strategies and the achievement of policy objectives.

The policy has 10 objectives - fostering a science, technology and innovation culture, enhancing of capability in science and technology for national development, human resource base, research and development, developing of scientific knowledge and technologies for transfer to achieve progressive modernization of all sectors.

And to enhance the country's competitiveness in the world economy, ensuring of sustainable use of natural resources for development while protecting the environment, promotion of indigenous knowledge based technologies, developing of a culture of innovation and intellectual property and ensuring of protection of Intellectual Property Rights, ensuring of quality standards of products and promoting of science and technology for human welfare, disaster management, adaptation to climate changes, law enforcement and defence, to ensure human and national security.





