Commissioning of Moragahakanda-Kaluganga project Farmers will get a better yield - Minister Sirisena

Harischandra Gunaratna in Elahera

Agriculture Development and Agrarian Services Minister Maithripala Sirisena Sunday said that with the commissioning of the Morahagakanda- Kaluganga project, the yield in paddy harvest in the Matale district will be increased by 1/3 and the farmers will be able to cultivate a third season in the year. He was addressing a news conference held at Moragahakande to mark the completion of two years of the Moragahakande-Kaluganga project.

Already Kuwait and Suadi Arabia have confirmed that they will provide a major part of the funds required for the USD 617 million project and discussions are now being held with the officials of JAICA. The government is confident that the Japanese government will also provide funding for the project, he said.

Lack of water is a major problem faced by the farmers in the Matale district as well as Anuradhapura and Polonnaruwa districts as most of the rain water flows to the sea. As it is, 725 million cubic metres of water goes waste and with the implementation of this project, it could be reduced to 225 million cubic metres, the Minister explained.

"With the construction of the dam in Moragahakande across Amban ganga the flooding of certain areas could be reduced to a great extent," he said.

The project will consist a major dam and two saddle dams. Construction will be completed in 6 years, Director General of the project Ivan de Silva said.

It will also generate 30 mw of power, he added.

With adequate supply of water, with the implementation of the project, in addition to paddy cultivation, farmers in the area could engage in growing of vegetable as well as fruits, the Minister said.

Around 1,500-1,600 families living in Moragahakanda area will be re-settled in Medirigiriya to make way for the project. Each family will be given 1 1⁄2 acres for paddy cultivation and an acre of land for chena cultivation.

Others will be re-settled in the same district in the Laggala, Pallegama area.

"We are now laying much emphasis on providing water to those living in these areas since it has been a major issue for the last so many decades", the Minister said.

During the last four decades, priority was given to generation of electricity and hence, these projects have been delayed, but today the government is laying emphasis on agriculture development and increased food production, Sirisena said.

He said that opposition political parties had been misleading the masses for mere political gain, saying that these development projects will not see the light of day. Today the people of this country are convinced about who is right and who is wrong.

The Director General Ivan de Silva said that during the last two years, the government had used local expertise for the project with the Sri Lankan engineers and technicians in charge. The government used Rs 1,200 million local funds for the project.





