After a phenomenal second half in 2009 Stock exchange in need of new listings

By Devan Daniel

Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Director-General Channa De Silva said it was crucial for new companies to list on the Colombo Stock Exchange in order for the capital market to grow further.

"We cannot expect stock prices to double in 2010 as the market is almost fully priced. We will quickly have to bring in large and medium sized businesses. The market is liquid and there is money to accommodate new listings. This we know because the public offerings in 2009 were all oversubscribed," De Silva told the Island Financial Review.

After the war ended last May, the Colombo Stock Exchange recorded phenomenal growth as domestic and foreign investor confidence grew.

The exchange ended the year on a high with its All Share Price Index growing by 122 percent.

The Colombo Stock Exchange became Asia's best performing exchange, according to Bloomberg. It is the second best performing exchange in the world behind Russia.

There several initial public offerings (IPOs) after the war.

The first IPO to be announced after the war, the IPO of NAMAL Acuity Value fund had attracted Rs. 537.56 million.

Hemas Power made an IPO which was oversubscribed by more than three times. The final count of this IPO was 8,552 applications amounting to Rs. 2.3 billion.

The IPO of Renuka Agri Foods was oversubscribed within one hour. It offered 120 million shares at Rs. 2.25 each.

De Silva said the exchange would have to attract new listings in order to grow further.

"The current price to earnings ratio is about 15 percent, there is room for it to increase to 18 percent but for it to grow more than that there has to be newer companies listing in the exchange," he said, adding that market capitalization was now about 25 percent of GDP but could improve to 50 percent, provided, newer listings take place.

De Silva said the SEC would focus on improving the supply side of the exchange (new listings) and at the same time, promote the concept of investing to rural Sri Lankans.

He said new products such as derivatives, exchange traded funds and real estate investment funds would be introduced to the Colombo Stock Exchange as the year rolls out.





