PGA Tour commissioner Tim Finchem would love to see Tiger Woods back playing as soon as possible, but the world's best golfer is "doing the right thing" in taking time to sort out his personal life.

"We want our number one player back," Finchem said in a conference call Tuesday. "I think he's going to be huge when he comes back.

"But he's doing the right thing right now in dealing with his issues as he said he wanted to."

Woods last played in mid-November when he won the Australian Masters. Soon after, he was involved in a minor car crash outside his Florida mansion, which triggered revelations of numerous marital infidelities.

NYDailyNews.com reported Tuesday that Woods has checked into a Mississippi clinic for treatment of sex addiction.

While Finchem would like to see Woods back, he insisted there's a "misperception" his absence destroys the Tour's business model.

"People think because Tiger spikes (television) ratings, which he does, and spikes interest, which he certainly does, if he's not playing it just doesn't work," he said. "I've been answering the same question (its economic viability) not since November but really for the last 13 years (when Woods joined)."

Finchem noted that in those years Woods has played an average 17 tournaments a year on a Tour schedule of 47 events. He said those other 30 events have had more growth than the ones Tiger played.

"That's not to diminish the fall-off from Tiger not playing," Finchem said. "You want the number one player, not just in the sport but arguably the number one athlete in the world ... to play.

"And, when he does, he lifts all boats. It creates more interest, more focus. But week-in, week-out, the PGA Tour provides value."

Finchem made his comments after announcing the new $4 million (all figures U.S.) McGladrey Classic tournament in Sea Island, Ga., in October. It follows Monday's news that the Tour had a title sponsor, Farmer's Insurance, for next week's San Diego Open at Torrey Pines, which was vacant after Buick dropped out in the auto collapse.

This week's event, the Bob Hope Classic, has lost Chrysler as its sponsor, though Finchem said he's confident he can get someone in place for next year.

Finchem said even without Woods teeing it up, Tour events still attract large, affluent audiences both at the tournament and on television, which is good news for sponsors. And, though Woods missed the second half of 2008 while recovering from knee surgery, the Tour set an all-time mark of $125 million raised for charity.

Prize money this year will be up slightly from 2009 and the level of funds raised for charity is "rebounding" back to the $116 million to $118 million range, he said.





