Fort Magistrate Lanka Jayaratne yesterday refused the bail application of Wellington Dehea Trenton Chigo, a Director of Hicorp (Pvt) Ltd who was arrested under the Public Property Act for allegedly submitting false documents to the Sri Lanka Army in connection with procuring arms from an overseas arms supplier and remanded him till February 3.

The Magistrate considering the submissions of the Attorney-at-Law Misba Sathar who appeared for the suspect allowed copies of the proceedings and the subsequent order to be given to the respondent Attorneys-at-Law.

The Magistrate further ordered that the CID be handed over two copies of the same documents.

He observed that the applications had been allowed under the Section 443 of the Penal Code.

Attorney-at-Law Misba Sathar in his submissions requested the CID to reveal the name of the person who gave the order to the CID to take the first suspect in when there are two directors in the respondent entity.

The use of fraudulent documents in transactions had not been confirmed. The duty of Police is to investigate.

He submitted that though the CID had submitted a secret report to the Court, the details of its contents were published in the media. The matter came up in Parliament.

Magistrate: Publishing in the media is not relevant to the inquiry.

He added that apart from the suspect, the present position of Lakshman Abeysekera the other Director of Hicorp, the respondent entity who was subject to inquiry by the CID is unknown.

The CID must take steps to produce all directors in the non summary inquiry. This course of action on the part of the CID places the first suspect at an disadvantageous position thus aggravating his mental condition.

Chief Inspector Mohan Siriwardena CID said that the B report is filed in respect of offenses coming under the Public Property Act.

In the course of investigations of the respondent entity, the CID found that the data base of computers destroyed leaving no evidence. The CID had also taken some documents from the Army.

At this juncture, there is no necessity to take Lakshman Abeysekera into custody.

A secret report had been submitted taking into consideration the situation of the country.

Attorney-at-Law Shiraz Noordeen and Nanayakkara also appeared for the suspect.





