Young players struggle because they want technical perfection – Aravinda

by Rex Clementine

Having walked to Lord's to make his Test debut before his 19th birthday, it must be very hard for Aravinda de Silva to see Sri Lanka's junior cricketers losing to Bangladesh heavily these days. In recent times, Sri Lanka have never threatened to beat any major teams in Youth World Cups and what's more embarrassing is that Sri Lanka is becoming an easy target for some of the minnows too.

The country's cricket authorities have realized the need to remedy the situation and as a result, brought in Aravinda de Silva as the team's batting coach, leading up to the Youth World Cup in Malaysia in March. Since the new year, de Silva has been working with the country's Under-19 cricketers and having taken a first hand look at the youth cricketers, de Silva noted a few pertinent points that ails country's junior cricket.

"There's absolutely no problem with the talent we have. I feel the kids we have have the potential. What they lack probably is guidance. They are very keen to work hard, which is a good sign, but when it comes to match situations, maybe coaches at some schools are confusing them," de Silva, who stormed into the national team from being a prolific school boy cricketer at D. S. Senanayake College, Colombo said.

"But then, they are not in a position to walk into the national side and replace any of the players there. I am not taking anything away from the school coaches, they have done their best to teach the young players the basics, but I feel we should try to build on strengths rather than be too technical and confuse these kids," he added.

"They seem to be more confused on techniques and theories and as result fail to be their natural self. They are all trying to be technically perfect, which is not something that we should encourage. I want them to be mentally strong and be able to handle situations. I firmly believe that unorthodox players can win matches and the best example is Sanath Jayasuriya," de Silva felt.

De Silva felt that young players needed to be told how to make runs while taking minimum risks. "I am trying to make them realize that batting is all about making runs and how you do that is by making less mistakes. How to take away the risk element when making runs is important. I don't want to change the styles the players have. When playing one-day games, players get out by either playing premeditated shots or by panicking. Those are the things I am trying to see whether we can avoid."

He also felt the need to have sessions to educate coaches. "We need to have regular sessions with junior coaches and educate them. That's where we have gone wrong. The coaches seemed to have worked on how to protect one's wicket; I am trying to tell them how to make runs while protecting the wicket. What I see in most games is that batsmen panic and play a bad shot and get out," he added.

De Silva also stressed the importance of working on the physical fitness of the players. "Fitness is something that is not in our culture, and that's something that we need to build on. For Under-19 kids, they are too slow and they need to work on their strengths and fitness," de Silva pointed out.





