



MELBOURNE, Australia (AP) — Novak Djokovic got his Australian Open title defense off to worry-free start, breaking Paul-Henri Mathieu's serve in the opening game and going on to beat the veteran Frenchman 6-2, 6-4, 7-5 Monday at Rod Laver Arena.

Djokovic, who broke Mathieu's serve at 5-5 in the deciding set, is attempting to be the first man in the Open era to win three consecutive Australian titles. He won in 2011 and '12 to go with his title here in 2008, which was also the first of his five majors.

With Rafael Nadal not playing due to a virus, Djokovic's major threats at Melbourne Park are expected to come from No. 2 Roger Federer or No. 3 Andy Murray.





Maria Sharapova swept aside any fears about her fitness with a ruthless 6-0 6-0 victory over Olga Puchkova on Monday as a trio of top women progressed with ease on the first morning of the Australian Open.

Sharapova, the 2008 champion and runner up to Victoria Azarenka last year, was quickly joined in the second round by Venus Williams and Li Na after both the former losing finalists also enjoyed emphatic wins. Despite the record temperatures which have gripped Australia for the last couple of weeks, the year's first grand slam opened in mild conditions under overcast skies at Melbourne Park.

There was nothing mild about Sharapova's demolition of Puchkova on Rod Laver Arena, however, and after saving a couple of break points in the opening game, she powered her way to victory over her compatriot in just 55 minutes. Smashing winners at will, particularly off her forehand, the Russian showed no signs of the collar bone injury that saw her pull out of the Brisbane warm-up.

"I was happy with the way I started, considering I didn't play any matches coming in," said the 25-year-old. "It was just one of those matches where I didn't try to worry about her too much, I just tried to think about what I had to do. "

American Williams could meet Sharapova in the third round and proved she could be a handful for the second seed by winning 12 successive games to beat Kazakh Galina Voskoboeva 6-1 6-0. Williams, playing in an eye-catching self-designed dress inspired by watercolours, lost her only Australian Open final to her sister Serena in 2003. Serena, an odds on favourite to clinch her sixth title this year, gets her campaign underway on Tuesday.

China's Li Na was losing finalist in 2011 a couple of months before she won the French Open and underlined her fine early season form with a 6-1 6-3 victory over another Kazakh, Sesil Karatantcheva. Li, who won the inaugural Shenzhen Open two weeks ago, will face Belarusian Olga Govortsova in the second round as she continues to thrive under the guidance of Justine Henin's former coach Carlos Rodriguez.

"He's not only a teacher about tennis, not only about technique, he's also helping me get my mind stronger on court," Li said.

France's Julien Benneteau, raised into the 32nd and final seeding position after the withdrawal of John Isner, was the first man to taste victory in Melbourne this year when he thrashed rising Bulgarian talent Grigor Dimitrov 6-4 6-2 6-4.

Dimitrov, 21, has been nicknamed 'Baby Fed' because of his precocious talent but has yet to get past the second round at a grand slam in 10 attempts.





The Lawyers Collective has decided to challenge the appointment of the new Chief Justice before the Supreme Court by filing a fundamental rights violation case.

They would seek a Quo warranto (by what warrant/authority) writ against the new appointment and that such appointment be declared illegal, President's Counsel Dr. Jayampathi Wickremaratne and J. C. Weliamuna of the Lawyers' Collective said.

Addressing a media conference in Colombo yesterday, Dr. Wickremaratne said that the Executive and Legislature had deliberately ignored the constitutional interpretation by the Supreme Court. The same had happened to the Court of Appeal order quashing the decision of the impeachment report by the members of the Parliamentary Select Committee that probe the charges mentioned in the impeachment motion against Dr. Shirani Bandaranayake, he said.

The appointment of a new Chief Justice in contravention of the determinations of the Supreme Court and the Court of Appeal was therefore illegal, Dr Wickremaratne said.

He said that the Lawyers Collective wanted Shirani Bandaranayake to remain as the Chief Justice, in spite of being unconstitutionally removed and they would not accept another appointee in her place in violation of the provisions of the Constitution.

Dr. Wickremaratne said that every citizen had a fundamental right to go before the Supreme Court against breaching of the Constitution and the Lawyers' Collective would exercise that right and would seek to obtain a Quo warranto writ annulling the appointment of a new Chief Justice.





Further proposals for Education Reform

The Care of Children - Part 26

January 15, 2013, 7:46 am

by Prof Rajiva Wijesinha

I wrote some weeks back about some welcome proposals for Reform decided on at the Parliament Advisory Committee on Education. I will now look at some other proposals that are also welcome, though I have written as follows to suggest they should be fleshed out in an imaginative fashion to ensure effectiveness.

a) 1.2.9 & 7.8 – The Principal is the backbone of the school, and should be empowered to decide on expenditure. Strengthening Principals and allowing them to run the school without constant reference to Education Offices is vital. However this should be accompanied by clear guidelines as to administration and accountability. Appointing an Administrative Secretary (4.2.4) to each school is an excellent idea, but there should be very clear job descriptions, and performance contracts for both the Principal and the Secretary. A strong School Development Society should be established, but with strict provisions against financial involvements, with heavy penalties to prevent contractual connections. Accountability should also be increased through reports to Grama Niladhari headed committees and through these to the Women and Children's Units of Divisional Secretariats.

b) 1.2.15 – Private sector participation in education is desirable, with appropriate quality controls. This should be encouraged at all levels, including the training of teachers. The opportunity to teach in state schools should be subject to certification through state evaluation, but private and non-profit agencies should be encouraged to set up teacher training institutes, in particular for Science and Mathematics and Languages, and for English medium teaching.

c) 2.1.5 – An institution should be developed to promote professionalism in teachers. This is essential, but whether yet another institution should be created is a question. Rather that responsibility should be assigned to the Research and Development branch of the National Education Commission, which should incorporate professionals rather than relying only on members of the teaching profession to decide what makes a good teacher. Officials responsible for education must realize that the quality of their products is best judged by society and future employers, not by the producers themselves.

d) 2.1.13 – Textbooks should be available for purchase in the open market. This provision should be accompanied by competition with regard to textbooks, since the current monopoly has proved expensive, while students do not always get good textbooks. Professional publishers, including international ones, should be encouraged to produce textbooks in line with local syllabuses. Initially these can be used as supplementary readers, in fulfillment of the recommendation regarding classroom libraries (3.2.3)

e) 2.1.14 – National Colleges of Education should be upgraded. This is essential, but it makes no sense to think in terms of a four year degree course. Rather, after two years of intensive training, students should start teaching with capable mentors, and should develop initiative and problem solving skills, which will be tested in the field and through analytical case studies. They should while teaching follow weekend courses at Teacher Centres in English and Computing and Counselling, and other skills necessary for professional development.

f) 3.3.1-5 – Parents should decide on the mother tongue of children, and English medium should also be permitted on this basis. Secondary education should be bilingual and all teachers should be able to teach in English as well as another language. There seems to be some contradiction here with an earlier proposal (1.2.7) that English can be taught as the link language. This should be clarified, preferably on the basis of allowing choice by parents in the best interests of the child, and with the proviso that all children must qualify in at least two languages at the Ordinary Level Examination. Principals must be responsible, provided sufficient teachers are supplied, for ensuring students are able to communicate in at least two languages, and entrance to universities should require two languages in addition to mathematics.

g) 3.10.1 – The school environment should be attractive and learner friendly. This should involve school gardens, the upkeep of which should be undertaken by students. Other extra-curricular activities should include developing the profile of the school through the electronic media where possible, and social service projects with reference to community needs. For this purpose the twinning of schools should be encouraged, with emphasis on building links with students of different communities.

h) 4.3.3. – Assistance should be on the basis of MOUs. This is desirable for transparency as well as clarity of purpose, but government must encourage aid programmes, and in particular the use of volunteer teachers from other countries for English and other subjects for which external inputs are useful. Education Ministries must establish an office to actively seek international cooperation, and target this at schools in need, though without discouraging schools that have developed links on their own, or which have active Past Pupils' Associations in Sri Lanka or abroad.

i) 5.1.6 – All teachers should be proficient in English. To ensure good teacher training in English, it is essential to have good trainer training programmes. This was envisaged when the National Institute of Education was started, with a Higher Institute of English Education producing high quality English Trainers. Such an institution should be set up again, with provision to re-employ on a contractual basis those members of staff still available, and can revive institutional memory about the programmes conducted in that earlier period. They should also be entrusted with developing English Teacher Training programmes and General English programmes for other teachers, with follow up activities at Regional English Support Centres.

j) 8.8-9 – Students taking vocational and related training programmes in schools should have ready access to further training and obtain diplomas and degrees based on these foundations. Internship programmes in work organizations should be encouraged. Such qualifications should be made available by public and private and non-profit institutions. State universities providing qualifications in technical and vocational education should adopt a modular approach and give credit to courses offered by other institutions, subject to quality controls. School based courses would thus provide foundations for extra mural degree courses that would include practical training and work experience components.





Integrating Sri Lankan Industry into the Indian Supply Chains - Part I

Excerpts of a preliminary study carried out by Prof. Sirimal Abeyratne, Professor in Economics, University of Colombo, for the Pathfinder Foundation.

January 14, 2013, 6:48 pm

Sri Lanka – a small country with 20 million population is unlikely to sustain a rapid growth momentum in isolation; it needs to grow on the basis of deeper integration with global production processes and international markets. However, the current growth scenario of Sri Lanka appears to be a peculiar one. While there are paradoxical outcomes in respect of trade-growth nexus over the past decade or so, the post-war economic fundamentals depict that the economic take-off is yet to be seen. Despite the smallness of the island, it is located close to India – one of the fast-growing biggest markets in the world. Besides the close geographical proximity between the two countries, their economic ties were conditioned by policy reforms and trade agreements during the past 25 years as well as long-standing non-economic and historical factors. As it appears, all factors underlying economic relations between Sri Lanka and India remain strong in favour of deeper integration.

The studies, however, show quite paradoxically that Sri Lanka's trade with its neighboring countries in the South Asian region continued to remain marginal (Abeyratne 2012, Ahmed et. al. 2010, Banik and Gilbert 2008, Behera and Mukherji 2011). With over a decade of experience under the bilateral Indo-Lanka Free Trade Agreement (FTA), one would anticipate well-established and fast-growing economic integration between the two countries. Despite the greater scope for deeper integration in merchandise trade, investment and trade in services between the two countries, the studies portray a slow and lopsided pace of transformation.

Growth of international trade has been overwhelming, but it is no longer the "inter-industry" trade analyzed in traditional theories of comparative advantage or the "intra-industry" trade analyzed in modern trade theories. As Ferrarini (2011:1) stated, "the progressive integration of world markets has led to the fragmentation of production across countries and the formation of global supply chains". It is the production and supply of parts and components by different countries and, then assembling the final good in a different country – a phenomenon that exhibits a different kind of comparative advantage and that dominates a significant part of the modern international trade. In other words, this is a modern phenomenon in international trade under which different countries enter into a supply chain of a product at its different stages either through supplying different parts and components or undertaking the assemble activities of the final product. The slicing up of the value chain and international outsourcing have become increasingly important facet of economic globalization over the past three decades (Athukorala 2011, Athukorala and Menon 2010, Ferrarini 2011, Kimura 2006). The phenomenon has been made possible by the liberalization policy reforms, technological changes in production processes, and the decline in transport costs – all that allowed countries to find best locations for production of parts and components and, to enhance mutual benefits of integration. The new phenomenon of international trade has ousted the validity of the old concept of value added production.

Indo-Lanka trade relations...

The strengthened economic ties between India and Sri Lanka over the past few decades were influenced significantly by the trade liberalization policies in both countries as well as their regional and bilateral agreements. Sri Lanka embarked upon policy reforms towards establishing a liberalized trade regime as far back as 1977. India together with other South Asian countries started off the reform process in the early 1990s. While the unilateral policy reforms in both countries paved the way for trade expansion and integration, there were various attempts for greater cooperation and integration in the region since the inception of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) in 1985. This was followed by the implementation of two important regional agreements by the SAARC countries – the South Asian Preferential Trading Agreement (SAPTA) in 1995 and, the South Asian Free Trade Area (SAFTA) in 2005. In the midst of the slow progress of regional agreements, there have been various bilateral arrangements among the South Asian countries which were, indeed aimed at even deeper economic cooperation and integration.

While Sri Lanka continued to remain a member of the regional agreements for economic integration, it also entered into bilateral free trade agreements with India and Pakistan. The Indo-Lanka FTA was implemented in 2000 and, the Pakistan-Lanka Free Trade Agreement in 2005. The proposed comprehensive economic partnership agreement (CEPA) with India in 2003 and, another with Pakistan in 2008 of which the implementation was delayed continuously, envisaged extending the bilateral economic integration covering trade in services.

In respect of Sri Lanka's bilateral trade with India, the FTA surpassed the regional trade agreement (SAFTA) in terms of the depth of free trade, its time span of progress and, the rules of origin. This means that Sri Lanka's bilateral trade with India after 2000 has performed under the Indo-Lanka FTA that made SAFTA ineffective. The Indo-Lanka FTA is now fully effective after Sri Lanka completed the time period for tariff liberalization under Indo-Lanka FTA in 2008, while India had completed its tariff liberalization in 2003.

Merchandise Trade...

Given the policy reforms and measures for regional and bilateral integration, the groundwork had been set fourth for greater cooperation and integration between Sri Lanka and India. As far as Sri Lanka's trading partnership is concerned, one notable change is the elevation of India as a destination market for exports as well as a source market for imports. As of 2010, India is the third largest export destination, while USA and UK being the first and the second largest export markets. Moreover, India is the largest source market for Sri Lanka's imports, accounting for 19.0 percent of the country's total imports in 2010. The value of imports from Singapore which is the second largest source market with 11.6 percent of total imports is greater than that from the EU which account for 11.3 percent. In fact, it appears that Sri Lanka has shifted away from its traditional source markets for imports – the Western countries to East Asian and Southeast Asian countries as well as to India in the South Asian region.

Sri Lanka's trade in the SAARC region is explained largely by trade with India which accounts for about 85-90 percent of the country's regional trade in the past decade. The share of Sri Lanka's exports to US has declined from about 40 percent of total exports in the early 2000s to little over 20 percent by the end of the decade (Figure 1). However, this decline has been compensated partly by an increase in Sri Lanka's export share to EU, which has improved from about 28 percent to 35 percent. The export share to SAARC countries has increased from around 3.5 percent to 7.2 percent during 2000-2010, while this improvement could largely be attributed to the increase in exports to India.

The share of Sri Lanka's imports from US and EU has declined from about 20 percent of total imports in 2000 to about 13 percent in 2010, while the decline has been greater for imports from US than the imports from EU. The share of imports from the SAARC region has increased sharply from about 11 percent in 2000 to 21 percent in 2010, exceeding 25 percent in 2008. Moreover, the sharp increase in the share of imports from SAARC could be attributed to the rising imports from India more than other countries in the region.

Growth of exports to and imports from SAARC countries have increased in the decade of 2000s, compared to that in the previous decade of 1990s. Moreover, the average annual rate of export growth to India has more than doubled from 14.8 percent to 31.4 percent and, that of imports from India continued to remain high in the 1990s as well as in the 2000s. The importance of the US and EU as the traditional trading partners of Sri Lanka has also declined. Growth of exports to and imports from the EU has slowed down, with a contraction in exports to and imports from the US.

Trade Performance under FTA and Emerging Issues

The Indo-Lanka FTA (2000) has brought about a significant share of the products that were exported to and imported from India under free trade through a gradual process of phasing out tariff barriers. As Sri Lanka Customs reported, 91.8 percent of total imports from India (6522 products) and 85.7 percent of total exports to India (1765 products) were covered by the Indo-Lanka FTA. The value of imports covered by the free trade agreements is, however, not as great as the amount of products covered by them. The Indo-Lanka FTA covered only 56.3 percent of imports from India, indicating that the non-FTA imports also remained significant. In fact, under the Indo-Lanka FTA, Sri Lanka's negative list covered 1220 products (at HS Code 6-digit level) affecting Sri Lanka's imports from India, compared to India's negative list of 431 products, affecting Sri Lanka's exports to India.

Sri Lanka's bilateral trade with India before and after entering into the Indo-Lanka FTA as well as within and outside the FTA has revealed peculiar characteristics of the country's regional trade expansion. After the implementation of the Indo-Lanka FTA in 2000, trade expansion during the first half of the decade (2005-2010) was remarkable – on average per annum exports grew by over 300 percent and, imports by nearly 200 percent. During the second half of the decade (2005-2010), exports contracted by 2.7 percent, while imports grew only by 12.8 percent, presumably due to both internal policy changes and external shocks. The expansion of FTA exports was greater than the non-FTA exports in the first half of the decade, but not in the half of the decade. In spite of Sri Lanka's lengthy negative list affecting imports from India, the expansion of non-FTA imports was greater than the FTA imports throughout the decade.

It is clear that the Indo-Lanka FTA was more important for export expansion than for import expansion. As was confirmed by some other studies as well (Abeyratne and Ranasinghe 2004, Samarajiva and Herath 2009), Sri Lanka has been diverting its import trade from the rest of the world towards India in the past two decades due to cost differences, while the post-1990 liberalization policy reforms in India has been instrumental in this respect. As Sri Lanka also imports a bulk of intermediate goods and raw materials from India, the particular pattern of production specialization in Sri Lanka could be an underlying factor of the changes in import growth. Compared to the import growth that picked up in the early 2000s and continued to remain high throughout the decade (except in 2009), export growth reflected a steady decline after its initial increase in the early 2000s and, remained negative for some years after 2005.

Trade expansion under Indo-Lanka FTA has been accompanied by substantial changes in export and import composition. Prior to the Indo-Lanka FTA, Sri Lankan exports to India were dominated by primary goods, paper waste and scrap and, ferrous waste and scrap. After the implementation of the agreement, there has been an increase in the share of manufactured exports to India. Some of the manufactured exports were new products entered into the Indian market including animal feed, fiberboard, furniture, and ships and boats. Some of the fast-growing exports, particularly copper and copper products and, fats and oils (vanaspathy in particular) grew in response to the tariff concessions under the FTA, but declined after reversing the trade restrictions. Among the non-FTA exports, natural rubber accounted for over 60 percent and, apparel and clothing for nearly 25 percent of total non-FTA exports to India in 2010. Ten years ago in 2000, it was plastic and rubber articles and, synthetic filament yarn that dominated the non-FTA exports, accounting for about three-fourth of total non-FTA exports to India.

Sri Lanka's import mix from India has always been much more diverse than the export mix even prior to the Indo-Lanka FTA. Pharmaceutical products, cotton yarn, woven cotton fabrics and, iron and steel have been the dominant FTA imports in 2000. Even after the implementation of the Indo-Lanka FTA, these imports remained important, although their share of total imports appeared to have declined. One notable increase in the share of imports has been reported by motor cycles, parts and accessories of which the share of imports increased from 2 percent to 10.5 percent of total FTA imports. Among the category of non-FTA imports, the share of petroleum and passenger vehicles have increased significantly, and together accounted for more than half of the total non-FTA imports by 2010. While the oil price hike as well as the entry of Indian oil industry to the Sri Lankan petroleum sector may have contributed to the increase in the share of petroleum imports, the rising demand for cheaper Indian motor vehicles would have caused the increase in the share of vehicle imports.

Service Trade and Foreign Investment

During its post-1977 liberalization period, Sri Lanka experienced a rapid expansion in its service sector in terms of output, employment and trade. It is not surprising that as a "small open economy" operating in a market-oriented policy framework, the service sector contributes 60 percent of GDP and employs 43 percent of work force of the country as of 2010 (CBSL 2010). Despite the overwhelming importance of the service sector in the country's output growth, its share in international trade as well as in regional trade continued to remain insignificant (De Mel 2009). While export income of services account for 23 percent of total exports of goods and services and, import expenditure for 12 percent of total imports of goods and services.

The economic integration of Sri Lanka with India has been rapid during the past two decades and has extended beyond trade in goods, covering port activities, aviation, tourism, health, education and investment. Although the focus of the multilateral and bilateral agreements was on free trade in goods, as a byproduct of the same agreements and as a result of greater trade facilitation, the integration through service trade and investment appeared to have got accelerated.

Sri Lanka's service trade is dominated by traditional service sectors, particularly the travel and transport sectors which together contribute about 70 percent of service exports as well as service imports. Apart from that, on the export side another 20 percent of the service exports emanates from two sectors: computer and information services and, other business services. On the import side, other business services alone account for about 20 percent of the import of services. The overwhelming importance of the travel and transport sectors is associated with the country's port and aviation activities as well as the tourism industry, while trade with India plays a major role in these service sectors as well.

Tourism Industry

During the past three decades, in spite of greater potentials, Sri Lanka did not emerge as an attractive tourist destination mainly due to the internal political conflict. Even under depressed conditions, however, India emerged as the top tourist-originating country for Sri Lanka in 2002, ousting traditional Western tourist-originating countries such as United Kingdom and Germany and, continued to be so throughout the subsequent years of the decade. This was followed by a sudden influx of Indian tourists by more than 100 percent in 2002 mainly in response to the implementation of Sri Lanka's liberal immigration policy of "visa on arrival" for tourism purposes extended to the SAARC countries in that year. Although, the number of Indian tourists is as large as about 19 percent of the total number of 654,476 tourists, it is only about 1 percent of more than 12 million outbound tourists from India, showing a greater potential source market that Sri Lanka has not yet entered (Abeyratne 2011).

Port and Airport Services

Port and airport services are major activities of Sri Lanka's service trade, while a large part of the output of these two sectors exported to India. Despite the fact that Colombo Port and Airport are rather small by international standards, they continued to operate as attractive and efficient hubs in the South Asian region. With about 3.5 million annual TEU container traffic, Colombo Port occupies only 30th ranking position among the international ports in Asia (AAPA 2009). With about 5 million annual passenger traffic, Colombo Airport appears to be one of the smallest in Asia, compared to busy airports such as Singapore, Bangkok and Dubai which handle nearly 40 million passengers (ACI 2009).

While more than three-fourth of container traffic in Colombo Port in 2010 consisted of transshipment cargo portion, about 90 percent of the transshipment volume originated from India alone, indicating that the very existence of Colombo Port activities rests largely on the Indian transhipment activities (Ratnayake 2011). Bulk of Indo-Lanka trade and transshipment cargo are mainly between Tuticorin or Cochin and Colombo. Because of the relative efficiency of the Colombo port, transshipment via Colombo port has so far become cost-effective and time-effective.





The shocking execution of young Lankan housemaid Rizana Nafeek in Saudi Arabia, close on the heels of the unspeakably horrifying gang rape and killing of a female student in the heart of New Delhi may be purely coincidental but both harrowing happenings bring into focus the continuing, unconscionable repression and exploitation of women in particularly those parts of the world which are seemingly economically dynamic. It is not proper, on the part of this journalist, to comment on the judicial process which led to the Nafeek execution, but it is no secret that local women workers suffer terrible deprivations both locally and abroad.

The relentless repression and callous violation of the dignity of women is all too evident in the New Delhi savagery and one could only hope that states, civil society and international organizations, would, from now on leave no stone unturned until the blight which is rape is contained. But the execution of Rizana Nafeek even in the face of pleas for clemency, from particularly the Lankan state, helps surface, perhaps, some of the less evident dimensions in the more poverty-hit woman's lot in the so-called developing regions of the world.

For many of those women from what may be referred to as the less privileged social strata of Sri Lanka, 'employment in the Middle East' has proved over the years to be a dire necessity because this is a perceived path to the usually elusive Pot of Gold, the rainbow which is the market economy has conjured-up. For these women, this pursuit of comparative material wellbeing turns out to be disastrous, but one cannot fault them excessively for opting to work in what turns out to be nightmarish conditions abroad because economic equity cannot be denied them in polities that claim to be democratic and egalitarian. They are as entitled to affluence as others in a democratic polity and neither the state nor any other quarter could stand in these women's way in this pursuit, particularly if market economics have gained legitimacy and are supported by the state as an essential pillar of the economic order.

However, it is up to the state and its agencies to ensure that local women working abroad enjoy maximum security and wellbeing. If this has not been afforded to these migrant workers over the decades, it is the state and connected quarters which should be held accountable for the miseries and torments unrelentingly visited on these workers. Very many of these women have been 'returning to Sri Lanka in coffins' over the years but it is an open question whether anything substantial has been done to prepare them fully for the lives that await them overseas, for instance. Besides, the foreign governments concerned and these workers' employers abroad must be stringently held responsible for the safety of these workers. Could one be satisfied that these conditions of employment are fully met?

As is well known, our migrant workers contribute a very substantial quantum of funds to the public exchequer. In fact, we are direly dependent on 'foreign remittances' and we would not be exaggerating the case if we say that the earnings of our women migrant workers keep our economy in relative good health. In other words, these workers contribute in no small measure towards the sustenance of the national economy and help keep the wolves of economic ruin from the doors of the local polity. These fundamental truths should compel the Lankan state and its agencies to be unrelenting in their efforts to ensure the security and wellbeing of our workers abroad. It is not clear whether the state and its agencies had gone well over 'the extra mile' to secure the release of Rizana, whereas, her case called for exertions on this scale.

Ideally, young Sri Lankan women in particular should not be compelled to see employment abroad in vulnerable capacities as a livelihood option unless and until they and the state could assure themselves that the wellbeing and dignity of the workers concerned could be absolutely guaranteed. The social costs locally of permitting female labour migrations abroad are only too obvious to merit reiteration here and it should be clear to the Lankan polity that it is advisable to end the practice of permitting such work abroad provided the complete wellbeing of the workers is guaranteed. The Rizana tragedy, we hope, would prompt a rethink on these issues on the part of the Lankan state and other quarters who ought to be concerned.

Let it not be forgotten that we are living in an age of advanced global capitalism. In such a dispensation, one cannot expect humanity and caring from the owners of capital and their agents. Essentially, the world is seen as one expansive 'market' that offers capital almost unlimited opportunities of amassing wealth, by hook or by crook. Given this backdrop, it should not come as a surprise if local women migrant workers are compelled to work abroad, in some 'markets', in veritable slave labour conditions. In most cases, economic desperation drives these women abroad, and this initial, huge drawback renders them vulnerable to a plethora of exploitative practices adopted by employers.

Unfortunately, successive Sri Lankan governments seem to have chosen to overlook the vulnerabilities of our migrant female labour in particular because their earnings are pivotal to the sustenance of the national economy. The migrant workers are the proverbial goose that lays the golden eggs, which the state would dare not disable lest the economy suffers a huge setback. However, the truth is that many of these migrant workers are suffering in silence. In the case of very many of them, unspeakable indignities are heaped on them by employers but they are in no position to react to their condition because they are disempowered and vulnerable in a range of ways.

Hopefully, the Rizana Nafeek tragedy would lead to renewed public discourse locally and internationally on how the lot of Third World female migrant labour in particular could be alleviated. The worst that Sri Lankan governments could do is treat this category of our workers as yet another export commodity, whose passage abroad should be facilitated, but whose condition could be viewed with a Nelsonian eye of crass indifference because they help bring in the 'greenbacks'.





NEW DELHI: India and Bangladesh may sign a liberalized visa agreement and extradition treaty later this month when home minister Sushilkumar Shinde visits Dhaka for three-day home minister-level talks between the two countries, beginning on January 28.

The new visa agreement, called revised travel arrangements, will remove some restrictions on visit of each other's businesspersons, senior citizens above 65 years of age and children below 12 â€" on the lines of the new visa regime between India and Pakistan.





Government borrowings from the Central Bank picked up in November 2012 and borrowings from the domestic banking sector grew marginally while private sector borrowings from the banking sector picking up as well, data released by the Central Bank on Friday showed.

Credit to the government from the Monetary Authority amounted to Rs. 10 billion in November 2012, as against a Rs. 12 billion settlement the previous month. Borrowings from the domestic banking sector amounted to a low Rs. 300 million, compared with loans amounting to Rs. 22.6 billion the previous month.

New loans to government from the Central Bank amounted to Rs. 45.3 billion during the first eleven months of 2012 and Rs. 116.5 billion from the domestic banking sector.

Commercial bank loans to the private sector amounted to Rs. 25.8 billion in November, from Rs. 19.4 billion in October. New loans during the period January to November amounted to Rs. 336.3 billion. New loans generated in 2011 amounted to Rs. 487.7 billion and Rs. 290 billion in 2010.

Total outstanding net credit to the government amounted to Rs. 1.05 trillion as at end November 2012, up 31.6 percent year-on-year, with the growth rate dipping from 42 percent from a year earlier. Outstanding net borrowings from the Central Bank totalled Rs. 330 billion, up 52.5 percent year-on-year, slowing down significantly from a 163.5 percent growth rate a year earlier.

Net credit to the government from the domestic banking sector amounted to Rs. 72.4 billion, up 24.7 percent year-on-year, picking up from a 21.7 percent growth rate the previous year. FCBU borrowings amounted to Rs. 135.6 billion, up 20.7 percent year-on-year, compared to a growth rate of 19.7 percent a year ago.

Net credit to public corporations from the banking sector amounted to Rs. 72.4 billion as at end November 2012, up 5 percent from a year earlier while foreign currency borrowings grew 71 percent year-on-year to Rs. 188.8 billion.

Outstanding net credit to the private sector as at end November 2012 amounted to Rs. 2,157.8 billion, up 22.3 percent year-on-year, slowing down from a 35.3 percent growth rate a year earlier. Net credit from foreign banking units amounted to Rs. 190.7 billion, up 5.3 percent year-on-year, down from an 18 percent growth rate a year earlier.

Earlier this month the Central Bank eased monetary policy rates in a bid to spur economic growth after credit growth was contained last year following a balance of payments problem.

According to the Central Bank, net credit to the government from the monetary authority is estimated at Rs. 3 billion in 2012 and Rs. 142 billion from the domestic banking sector, mainly to finance the CPC and CEB.

Broad Money growth is expected to decline to 16.2 percent as at end December 2012, down from 19.1 percent a year earlier. End November 2012, Broad Money growth was 18.1 percent amounting to Rs. 2,880.7 billion, down from a 20.6 percent growth rate a year earlier.





Whilst skipper Chandana Surjiyarachchie scored two half centuries, Desapriya was Man of the Match on two occasions and was named Man of the Match in the match against the West Indies. Dimuthu Ravindra was named Man of the Match in the match against Nepal and R. Madushanker was the Man of the Match in the game against Bangladesh.

In addition, Lal Dhammika Seneviratne officiated as the umpire for several matches and D. S. K. Athulathmudali officiated as Match Referee. The team was coached by J. Rajapaksha, while Norbert Silva was the manager of the team.





A 38-year-old mother who allegedly dumped the remains of her three-day-old baby daughter near a canal, at Kottagoda, was remanded till January 22 by the Welimada Acting Magistrate.

The woman, who has a 12-year-old son, was arrested by the Uva Paranagama police yesterday. She confessed that she had had a clandestine affair with a married man, who came to work near her house and the child was his. The woman's husband had abandoned her.

Investigations into the death of the child had not been completed and the mother was in Welimada hospital, under remand custody, for an examination of her health conditions, police said.

Police spokesman SSP Prishantha Jayakody told The Island that a body of the newborn baby girl had been found near a canal around 6.05 p.m. on Sunday.

According to the mother, the infant was found to be dead when she pulled it out while in the process of delivery, as she felt severe pain. She had given birth to the child in the kitchen and her only son had not been there at the time.

The infant's remains had been sent to the Nuwara Eliya hospital for the postmortem, police said.





On a day where Ethiopia dominated all four races, 20-year-old Merima Mohammed overcame leg problems and cold, wet conditions to run the second-fastest ever women's race at the Chevron Houston Marathon on Sunday (13), while countryman Bazu Worku, 22, ran away with the men's title.

World bronze medallist Feyisa Lilesa defended his title in the men's Aramco Houston Half Marathon and Mamitu Daska, the 2011 Chevron Houston Marathon champion, won the women's crown. Daska is the first-ever woman to win the marathon and the half marathon at Houston.

Mohammed's late break proves decisive

Mohammed ran the first half of the race with fellow Ethiopians Bizunesh Deba and Meskerem Assefa and that trio stayed together through 33km, when Mohammed made a strong move and broke away. She stretched her lead to 47 seconds over Deba by the 40km mark and crossed the line in 2:23:37, missing the course record by 23 seconds.

Deba, the runner-up of the 2011 New York Marathon, finished second in 2:24:26, which is the fifth-fastest time in race history. Showing great range for an athlete who boasts PBs of 2:02.12 and 4:02.12 for 800m and 1500m, Assefa finished third on her marathon debut in 2:25:17.

"I had a problem with my left leg," Mohammed told reporters through a translator while massaging her left calf. "It was hurting badly. It was a very painful situation."

Worku wins by more than two minutes

Worku, who had been running in a pack of nine early in the race, came through the half-way mark in 65:25 with five others. But by 25km, he had opened up a 50-second lead over team-mate Solomon Molla.

Worku continued to stretch that lead with every mile and finished in 2:10:17, winning by more than two-and-a-half minutes. Teferi Balcha claimed runner-up honours in 2:12:50, while Molla held on for third in 2:14:37.

Daska and Lilesa take half-marathon titles

Course record-holder Lilesa ran side-by-side with Deriba Merga until the pair entered the home stretch, where Lilesa used his superior speed to win in 61:54. Merga, winner of the Houston Marathon in 2009, was second in 62:00, while Kenya's Wilson Loyanai made a late surge to take third in 62:12.

Daska took command early in the race, leading through 5km in 16:18, and then doubled her margin by the 10km mark, reached in 32:42. At 15km, she had a 1:27 lead over Caroline Kilel of Kenya and her margin of victory was 2:05 when she crossed the line in 69:53, the fifth-fastest time in race history.

Kilel finished as the runner-up for the second year in a row, finishing in 71:58 as her team-mate Hellen Jemutai was third in 72:34.





India's army chief on Monday accused Pakistan of planning an attack in which two Indian soldiers were killed in the disputed Kashmir region last week, and warned of possible retaliation.

Gen. Bikram Singh's strong words are a clear message that India believes the Jan. 8 attack was a deliberate provocation and not an unintentional skirmish of the kind that often breaks out along the Line of Control, the de facto border between the two archrivals in the Himalayan territory.

Pakistan did not immediately respond to the comments, which are likely to raise tensions further.

The tit-for-tat fighting began Jan. 6 when Pakistan accused Indian troops of raiding an army post and killing a soldier. India denied attacking the post, and said its troops fired across the border in response to Pakistani shelling that destroyed a home on the Indian side.

On Jan. 8, India claimed Pakistani soldiers, taking advantage of heavy fog, crossed the border and killed two Indian soldiers and beheaded one of them.

Pakistan denies India's allegations and has suggested U.N. monitors in the region conduct an inquiry — a call that India rejected, saying it didn't want to internationalize the issue.

"The attack on Jan. 8 was premeditated, a pre-planned activity. Such an operation requires planning, detailed reconnaissance," Singh told reporters. He said India reserved the right to retaliate at a "time and place of its choice."

Singh urged his troops to be "aggressive and offensive in the face of provocation and fire" from Pakistan.





The Law Entrance Students Union (LESU) together with the Bodu Bala Sena Organisation will stage a protest, opposite the Law College in Hulftsdorp today, demanding re-scrutiny of the entrance examination 2012 answer scripts.

Organising Secretary of the Bodu Bala Sena, Vitharandeniye Nanda thera told The Island that earlier, Law College Principal Dr. W. D. Rodrigo had sent a letter to the Examinations Commissioner General W. M. N. J. Pushpakumara asking him to re–scrutinise the results when Buddhist monks protested, but had now reversed that decision.

The Law College entrance examination was held in August 2012 and the results were released in the last week of December. There was suspicion of malpractice.

Nanda Thera said last week that they protested opposite the Law College demanding the postponement of new registrations, which was scheduled to start on Jan. 08, till the allegations were looked into.

"However, the principal postponed the registration by two weeks," Nanda Thera said, adding that they were still demanding the re-scrutiny of the answer scripts.

Secretary of the LESU Wasamba Madawala said that the Criminal Investigations Department had also commenced an inquiry to find if the Law Entrance exam paper had been leaked before hand.

He said that they would continue their protests until the results of law entrance examination 2012 were cancelled.









St. Joseph's College, Darley Road will take on St. Benedict's College, Kotahena, while Colombo International School (CIS) will encounter Royal College, Colombo in the semi-finals of the Under-17 inter-school 'A' Division Basketball Tournament in the evening at Reid Avenue today.

Royal College, Colombo edged out D.S. Senanayake College, Colombo by 65-52 in the quarterfinal, after leading 29-21 at the half way mark yesterday. Julian Gunasinghe top scored for the winners with 25 points, while Shamaz Shiraz scored 18 points.

For DSS Mihad Jayah scored 11 points.

St. Joseph's College, meanwhile defeated their arch rival St. Peter's College, Bambalapitiya in a thrilling contest to secure their semi-final spot. The Jose were trailing 63-64 with just one second left in the game when Mark Fernando scored three points to secure the game (66-64).

St. Benedict's College overcame Lyceum International School, Nugegoda, while CIS did well to beat Asian International School, Colombo 68-54 in their quarter-final matches. (RS)





Henry Williams, one of the players who testified against disgraced South Africa captain Hansie Cronje at his match-fixing trial, has now reportedly said he was coerced into lying about his skipper.

Williams, who played for the Proteas in just seven ODIs, originally told the King Commission that the now-deceased Cronje had offered him $15 000 to play badly in a game against India. But he now, according to the Sunday Times, has said that his lawyers told him what to say and that Cronje never mentioned a monetary figure.

He said in the newspaper: "When we testified to our lawyers what the story really was, they came up with a threat that we could be prosecuted for doing something like this."

Herschelle Gibbs was another player who gave evidence against Cronje, and both he and Williams were banned from the game for six months. Williams now says he was pressurised into making his statement.

But Mike Fitzgerald and Peter Whelan, the lawyers in question, have denied Williams' accusations, saying the player told the truth once Gibbs had done so, after they tried to lie their way out of the situation.

Whelan said: "Henry certainly came along for the ride. I didn't think he was lying initially, but he came out when Herschelle did."

In the end, Cronje admitted to match-fixing and was banned from the game for life. He was killed in a plane crash in the Western Cape in 2002, after carrying on with his life as a businessman.





I read with much interest the article in the The Island of January 7 titled "Do we need Sampur?" Of course we need Sampur. And several other coal power stations. We have to electrify railways, instead of wasting foreign exchange importing oil. It is very foolish building expressways and importing more and more cars. Sri Lanka is a poor country and we cannot afford to give every family a car. Nuclear power is insane as Sri Lanka is a small island which has had tsunamis and earthquakes in the past. If there is a nuclear accident we'll have to vacate half of Sri Lanka. And where can we go? South India is already over-crowded. So nuclear power is just out.

If we build coal power stations in Galle and Hambantota, we can electrify the southern railway. Similarly we can electrify the railway from Colombo to Kandy and from Colombo to Jaffna. That is the possible future. Electric trains within a country are even faster than aircraft as you do not have to go to the airport and come back from the airport.





My only sister Lila was an old girl of Musaeus College (1921-1932). She was born in Aug. 1916 and passed away in Nov. 2006.

This is my sister's sixth death anniversary and I thought I must write an appreciation about her, as she was both a sister and a mother to me. I was 15 years junior to her and I lost my mother 60 years ago. I still miss my sister very much.

My sister had her entire education at Musaeus College-the prestigious Buddhist educational institution — which started in 1891.She started her schooling at the young age of four years and was a hosteller too, as my father was then Post Master, Gampaha. I remember my mother mentioning that they had to engage a special 'ayah' to look after her.

Sometime after my sister entered Musaeus, my cousin Jessie Gunewardena, both of whom were very close as cousins, also joined Musaeus and was also a hosteller and they were together once again. Evidently, the time my sister was at Musaeus was a memorable period in my sister's life, because even in the twilight of her life she used to recall vividly stories like acting in the play 'Pandukabhaya' and her role in it and how the costumes were borrowed from Tower Hall and so on.

My sister Lila was at Musaeus from the 'Baby Kindergarten' until she passed the English School Leaving Certificate (E.S.L.C.)-the equivalent of our 0/Ls now. Sister used to relate to me and her children numerous anecdotes and events at Musaeus in her time and many of them revolved around that visionary educationist and founder of Musaeus College, Mrs Marie Musaeus Higgins. She had been a 'Mother Musaeus' in the true sense of the word.

She used to describe how after dinner, Mrs Higgins left her bungalow, which was within the school premises, and came to the hostel to relate bedtime stories to the young ones.

As the years passed by, Mrs Higgins had been confined to a wheel chair, but her routine visit took place, much to the joy of the children who used to wait for her arrival. Another story she used to relate was how the hostellers were taken for a walk every Sunday evening, and on their return they stop by at the Principal's bungalow, where Mrs Higgins waits for them with a huge bowl of pudding to serve the girls and how my sister used to eat it with relish.

I must say that my sister Lila and her cousin Jessie had been the beneficiaries of the best of education at Musaeus. This was way back in the 1920s and 1930s.They were indeed extremely proud that they were Musaeites. Three teachers she used to mention were, Miss Liya, Miss Rosalind and the piano music teacher, Miss Cuthbert. One classmate she talked of much was the late Mrs Vivian Gunewardena and she used to refer to her as 'Vivi'. She used to relate how when my father collects her and my cousin and brings them home for the school holidays, he used to give a lift to Vivi too. This was when he was stationed at Kalutara.

She also remembered well her courting days. In later years my sister visited Mrs Vivian Gunewardena to get her help over an official matter and we accompanied her and it was only that day that we realized the warmth and depth of their friendship, when we saw how she leapt from her seat, hugged her and welcomed sister. Needless to say, she fulfilled my sister's wishes, which was a matter concerning her daughter.

Not only was the quality of the education they had remarkable, it was also well-rounded.

Their English was impeccable and so was their general knowledge. We in fact had a habit of referring to my sister when we were in doubt. The school had also contributed so much for their personal growth- the simple value system they had, humaneness , not hurting anyone by word or deed and above all, to be devoid of avarice and be a true Buddhist. Musaeites of that era were so accomplished too.

We still have in our family house at "Dorville", Kalutara, paintings of my sister's hanging on the walls of the sitting room oil paintings, water colour paintings, stencil paintings etc, and that's not all, on special occasions we see displayed the teapot covers with fine embroidery work. It was such a well-rounded education she had at Musaeus. I am sure the College maintains those same standards and I am indeed happy to mention that the second generation-my sister's son's granddaughter Monadi Gunewardena is now a Musaeite.

Something came to my mind and I thought I should mention it because of its cultural relevance too. I remember we used to tease sister about a certain event in her life. That was the era of the 'Magul Kapuwa' and my sister's was an arranged marriage. In order to display her accomplishments, she had to play a piece on the piano and the music piece she played was "Silvery Waves'. This was for the first young man who visited, whom she eventually married .This was in 1936 and I was the Flower Girl at the wedding and my husband, now deceased, was the Page Boy. All I remember was that I wept bitterly when my new brother-in-law took my sister away.

My sister spent the last few years of her life in the home of her daughter and son-in-law and this gave us an opportunity to visit her almost daily. My husband and I dropped in one morning in the usual way, but she had fallen asleep after breakfast, so we left without disturbing her only to find that we had bade farewell to her. The sad message reached us before we got back home.

My sister was a beautiful person in every sense of the word-she was very popular among all our cousins and relatives. She was gracious, kind and lovely. I miss her very much.





Half centuries by Kasun Madusanka (80) and Roshan Anuruddha (54) helped Gurukula College post 219 for eight wickets declared against formidable Trinity College on day one of their match at Asgiriya yesterday.





Leg spinner Tharushan Iddamalgoda rattled Nalanda College batting line up with a six wicket haul as Lumbini College created history, recording a stunning 59 runs victory over the home team at Campbell Place, yesterday.

Given a target of 178 runs to win, Nalanda crumbled for 118 runs in the penultimate over as Iddamalgoda and Chamara Nishantha shared nine wickets between them.

Lumbini recovered from a dramatic first innings collapse (74) to record victory as they did well to restrict Nalanda to 76 runs and post 179 for seven wickets declared in the second essay.

According to Lumbini officials it is the first time in history that the school recorded a win against Nalanda.

Spinners Amitha Kaushalya and Irshad Umer took five wickets apiece and Dileepa Samarasekara scored an unbeaten 37 runs as Zahira College beat Mahanama College by two wickets in their match at Maradana, yesterday.

Javed Bongso (184 in 233 balls with 16x4s, 1x6s) and Thilaksha Sumanasiri (119 in 133 balls with 13x4s, 3x6s) scored centuries and put on a third wicket partnership of 232 runs for S. Thomas' College to amass 413 for five wickets at close in the match against Ananda College at Ananda Mawatha yesterday









We thank the government for gifting a beautiful park for the residents of Nawala and Nugegoda in the form of a Wetland Park. The people of these two bustling townships will be ever grateful to Mr. Gotabhaya Rajapaksa for this magnanimous gift. All these years the residents had no suitable place for relaxation and recreation, no place to walk for health reasons, except on the busy, narrow roads choking with fumes from vehicular traffic.

There are two more urgent needs of these townships, to ease the traffic congestion at two bottle- necks. One is a new broad bridge near the Open University and the other is a set of traffic lights at the Nawala road- Narahenpita road junction. I hope the good Defence Secretary will provide these as well in the near future.





Australia's captain Michael Clarke and Test regulars David Warner and Matthew Wade will return to the team for the third and fourth matches in its one-day series against Sri Lanka.

The trio missed the first two matches of the five-match series which is tied after Australia won the opening match by 107 runs and Sri Lanka the second match by five wickets. The third match is in Brisbane on Friday.

New South Wales allrounder Moises Henriques, who has played two one-day internationals, has also been recalled.

"Moises Henriques also comes into the squad as a genuine all-rounder whose bowling will be suited to conditions often found at the Gabba (in Brisbane),'' selection chairman John Inverarity said.

"Moises is a young man who has shown promise for some years with both the bat and the ball. This will be an opportunity for him to impress as we look for a good seam bowling all-rounder.''

Steve Rixon will take over as head coach for the third match in Brisbane while Mickey Arthur returns to South Africa to spend some time with his family. Arthur will re-join the squad in Sydney on Saturday.





Early Sinhala films were almost as crude as Maname. They reeked with songs and dances.

Today, most Ceylonese realize that songs and dances in a serious film are bad, and in good modern Sinhala films, like Duhul Malak, Palagetiyo and Hansa Wilak, songs have been almost completely eliminated.

But, for some mysterious reason, many Ceylonese still think that songs and dances in a play are a good thing. This is probably due, at least partly, to the influence of Maname.

Songs and dances in a serious play are just as bad as songs and dances in serious cinema for precisely the same reason, in that they interfere with the development.

In civilized countries, songs and dances were eliminated from serious plays centuries ago.

It would be obvious to any intelligent and educated person that the world's greatest plays are Dialogue Plays, (not Pantomimes) and that their value lies in their dialogue.

We would urge Sinhalese playwrights, if they want to produce anything of value, to cut out unnecessary songs and dances and say what they have to say in dialogues – that is provided they have anything to say.

Ceylonese wit and humour

Ceylonese wit and humour are of an extremely low level. We have seen Sinhala plays and films where a man jumping up or falling down, limping, or stammering, coughing, or even sneezing, or defecating, are presented as funny. Here are some examples of Ceylonese humour:-

1. From Vessantara

King (to clown):Why are you late this morning?

Clown: My wife made kiribath and sang a song. And while I was eating the kiribath and listening to the song, I completely forgot that I was due at the palace.

Queen (to clown) Why, is your wife's kiribath so tasty?

Clown: My word! If you eat two pieces of that kiribath, you don't need to eat anything else the whole day.

The clown then gives an allegedly comic dance, which ends with his falling to the great merriment of the audience.

2. From the film Colomba Sanniya

The film opens with a man defecating. While defecating, he sees a gem. He is so excited that he takes the gem and rushes to the village, forgetting even to wash himself. A crowd of villagers gathers and a little boy remarks:-

Little Boy: Hm! Hm! Parippu!

This is about the closest Sinhalese drama usually gets to wit.

3. From Ralahamy Plays

Ralahamy: I am going to Kandy tomorrow

Friend: How are you going?

Ralahamy: By helicopter!

The audience, including most of the most prominent members of Ceylonese society, simply roars with laughter.

4. From the Ralahamy Plays

Mrs. Ralahamy: We are going to Australia

Friend: What will you do in Australia?

Mrs. Ralahamy: I will drop my fan.

Again the distinguished audience roars with laughter.

Perhaps, the reader may not think that these passages are very funny. Nor do we. In fact, they are allusions, in rather poor taste, to trivial incidents involving well known persons.

No prizes are offered for identifying these incidents. Any future edition of the Ralahamy Plays will have to be very heavily annotated to explain the jokes.

5. From Kelani Palama

Woman: I am hungry.

Man: Don't worry. In six months your stomach will be full.

The intelligent reader will see that there are centuries of civilization between this sort of thing and the brilliant wit of civilized writers, e.g.

1. From Aristophanes (5th Century B.C.)

A son strikes his father and then undertakes to prove that it is right that fathers should be beaten by their sons.

Son: And first I ask: When I was young

Did you not strike me then?

Father: Yes, for I loved and cherished you.

Son: Well, solve me this again:

Is it not just that I, your son,

Should cherish you, alike,

And strike you, since as you observe

To cherish means to strike? Etc.

2. From Sheridan:

A father to his son:-

Sir Anthony Zounds! Sirrah! The lady shall be as ugly as I choose. She shall have a hump on each shoulder; she shall be as crooked as the Crescent; her one eye shall roll like a bull's in Cox's Museum; she shall have the skin of a mummy and the head of a Jew – she shall be all this, sirrah, yet I will make you ogle her all day, and sit up all night writing sonnets to her beauty.

3. From Sir W.S. Gilbert: What! Never?

Well, hardly ever

4. From Bernard Shaw:

Roman officer to Christian prisoners: If you cannot sacrifice to our gods as a matter of conviction, I suggest to you that you might at least do so as a matter of good taste.

5. From Sir Noel Coward:

Amanda: I have been brought up to believe that it is beyond the pale for a man to strike a woman.

Elyot: A very poor tradition. Some women should be struck regularly, like gongs.

We would urge would-be playwrights and script writers in Sri Lanka to read, mark, learn and inwardly digest the world's classics.

Then some day, we hope, some Ceylonese playwright may write a witty play, or even a witty line.

Stage décor

In civilized countries, stage décor has become an art in itself. It has been carried to an extremely high degree of development, complexity and finish.

The stage décor in European dramatic works, and particularly operas, is magnificent. And, however magnificent, it is in good taste.

J.D.A. Perera's attempts to imitate European stage décor were excruciatingly crude and vulgar. Gold paint was liberally splashed here, there, and everywhere. The stage was draped with tinsel. Coloured lights – all the colours of the spectrum-flashed on and off at the least provocation, and often without any provocation at all. The scenery though lavish, was in "decidedly weak prospectrive" etc.

Prof. Sarathchandra thought of a brilliant solution. The best way to eliminate the extreme vulgarity of J.D.A. Perera's stage décor was somewhat like Mahadenamutta's solution to getting the goat's head out of the pot; cut off the goat's head and smash the pot.

We suggest that a better solution might be to learn the art of stage décor – but this will take time, effort and the cultivation of both intelligence and taste.

Costumes, make- up, lighting

In civilized countries, stage costumes, like stage décor, have become a highly complex and developed art. Large books have been written about it. Some shops in Europe deal exclusively with theatrical shoes, wigs, etc.

Make-up has been carried to a very high degree of finish. Some people make a profession of theatrical make-up. There are centuries of civilization between the extreme crudity of make-up in Maname, and the extreme skill of make-up in European and American plays and films.

Lighting also has been carried to a high degree of complexity in Europe and America. Any European or American theatre has a large battery of lights, not only of various colours, but capable of being directed from all angles to any point of the stage. In any good production these are used to heighten the dramatic effect of the play. Nor are they used all at the same time, or in rapid succession, but judiciously, with intelligence and taste.

Drama in civilized countries, like Astronomy, has been developing for centuries, and has become a highly complex and many-sided art, very far removed indeed from the barbarous crudity of the Sinhalese Nadagama.

The future of Sinhalese drama

As we have said, early Sinhalese films were almost as crude as Maname.

But it is very encouraging to see that in 25 years Sinhalese films have made great strides forward. Unfortunately, while Sinhalese films were making great strides Sinhalese plays were making great strides backwards, under the leadership of the author of Maname.

Now that he himself has realized the error of his ways, we sincerely hope that Sinhalese drama also will begin to move forwards instead of backwards.

There is dramatic talent in our country, some of it of very good quality. But it needs to be guided in the right direction – which is forwards and not backwards.

The example of Japan

The example of Japan is very interesting, instructive and encouraging.

The Japanese also were till recently with barbarous forms of drama, the NO and KABUKI, very similar to the Sinhalese Nadagama.

In the 19th century an American ship sailed into a Japanese harbour and sank some Japanese boats.

The Japanese then made up their minds to acquire civilization. They sent thousands of students to Europe and America with explicit instructions to learn as much as they could and to come back and civilize their country.

This they did, and so effectively that in the 20th century, Japan is not only producing most cars, aeroplanes, etc. but is producing films like Rashomon, The Seven Samurai, Daydream etc. which have won the admiration of the world.

We would do well to follow the Japanese example.

There is a well-known saying, "You can fool ALL of the people SOME of the time. You can fool SOME of the people all of the time. But you simply cannot fool ALL of the people ALL of the time".

This applies precisely to Maname.

Prof. Sarathchandra and his friends have succeeded in fooling ALL (or nearly ALL) of the people for 25 years. They may succeed in fooling some of the people (the barbarous and vulgar) all the time. But they simply cannot fool all the people all the time.

Now, an increasing number of people are beginning to realize that the emperor has no clothes. Indeed the emperor himself has realized it.

We, therefore, hope that Sinhalese drama will now revive and that it will procure something of value in the not too distant future.

Sinhalese astronomers, who had to be taught that the earth is round and not flat, are now making useful contributions to astronomy.

We sincerely hope that Sinhalese dramatists also will learn the rudiments of drama and make some useful contributions to drama.





PORT ELIZABETH, South Africa (AP) — New Zealand lost 6-54 on the final morning of a one-sided test series against South Africa on Monday, as the Black Caps' weaknesses were ruthlessly exposed over two weeks in a 2-0 whitewash by the world's top-ranked team.

The tourists were out for 211 in their second innings in the second test at St. George's Park for an innings and 193-run defeat — and their second innings loss in a complete mismatch of a two-test contest.

"They were very professional and very big wins for us," South Africa skipper Graeme Smith said. "I like to think we outplayed them in the series."

That was never up for debate.

South Africa's spearhead pace man Dale Steyn — the game's top-ranked bowler — had match figures of 8-65 in Port Elizabeth and 5-17 in the Black Caps' first-innings 121 all out. The Proteas' bowling unit bullied No. 8-ranked New Zealand into near-submission through the entire series.

South Africa's dominance was clear from the first innings in Cape Town, when the visitors were humbled for 45 all out for their third lowest test score.

South Africa's batting was also way too good for the New Zealanders' fledgling bowling attack as three South Africans made centuries in a formidable 525-8 at the start of the second test. New Zealand's combined totals at St. George's were still nearly 200 runs short.

Only wicketkeeper-batsman BJ Watling and Dean Brownlie came out with any lasting credit for New Zealand. But their stubborn, temporary resistance and 98-run partnership in the final innings never threatened to disrupt South Africa's march to a fifth straight series victory since early 2012.

"I thought in this test series we came up against a team at the absolute top of the cycle of performance," New Zealand captain Brendon McCullum said.

Morne Morkel had 2-36 in the second innings as he and Steyn quickly wrapped up the test and the series with the best part of two days remaining in Port Elizabeth, where the pitch had been tipped to play lower and slower and blunt some of Steyn's spite.

Not so, as Steyn still undoubtedly led South Africa's rampant performance in both tests, taking 13 wickets in the series and combining speed, swing and aggression in a near-unplayable mix that underlined his status as the world's best bowler. It has also been a major factor in South Africa's ascent to the top of the team rankings.

"He (Steyn) has a great ability to drive a bus through a wall," Smith said. "If a batter gives him a sniff, he has that killer instinct. He sets the tone for all of us. He's that guy for us."

Left-arm spinner Robin Peterson and recalled seamer Rory Kleinveldt also had two wickets each as New Zealand capitulated for the final time on Monday, and Jacques Kallis 1-18 to break the Brownlie-Watling partnership.

All South Africa's bowlers found success in the final innings against a fragile New Zealand batting lineup that was dismissed for scores of 45, 275, 121 and 211 in the two tests.

"I've never been challenged like that at the crease by a group of bowlers," McCullum said.

South Africa also only needed to bat once in each test for its dominant victories and was never bowled out during the series.

In Port Elizabeth, Faf du Plessis (137), Hashim Amla (110) and newcomer Dean Elgar (103 not out) batted New Zealand out of the series before the Black Caps even had a chance at retribution at St. George's Park.

For New Zealand, BJ Watling made 63 and 63 in his two innings in the second test and Brownlie 53 in the second knock. But with New Zealand continuing on 157-4 overnight, Steyn, Morkel and Kallis ensured they didn't make lunch on the fourth day with the last six wickets falling in less than 20 overs in the morning.

New Zealand lost its last five for 29 in a final humiliation and will limp home hurting badly — following a three-match one-day series — to prepare for three tests against No. 2-ranked England at home next month.

"It's now what you do with it," McCullum said of the series. "You've got to learn from the experience rather than wallow in the defeat and feel sorry for yourself."

South Africa is now unbeaten in its last 11 series dating back to the 2009-10 season and, littered with world-class players, has set its sights on continued success.

"We had to build and go through phases to get to where we are today. It's great to have the quality of personnel we have to choose from," Smith said. "I think this team has a wonderful opportunity to create something special, to be a part of something special."





Huynh Buu Quang, Head of Global Trade and Receivables Finance (GTRF) HSBC Asia Pacific (International) arrived in the country for a four day business visit. Huynh will meet clients from both the public and private sectors, engage with HSBC employees in the Bank's Global Trade and Receivables Finance business as well as focus on connectivity within the region across key trade corridors, providing enhanced support to HSBC clients' international activities.

As a senior banking executive with over 16 years of experience Quang has held positions in Credit Cards, Marketing, Retail Banking and Wealth Management, Global Payments and Cash Management, Business Development, Credit Risk Management, Commercial Banking and Global Trade and Receivables Finance. He is currently responsible for executing HSBC's GTRF strategy and driving revenue in Brunei, Japan, South Korea, Mauritius, New Zealand, Philippines, Sri Lanka, Taiwan and Thailand.

Prior to taking up his current role, Quang was Head of Commercial Banking in Vietnam, and was instrumental in driving the growth of HSBC's business during the last six years. Quang obtained his Master of Business Administration (MBA) from Shidler College of Business of the University of Hawaii, USA. He holds a Diploma in Financial Service Management from the Institute of Financial Services, UK and a Bachelor of Economics from the University of Economics Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam.





The International Air Transport Association (IATA) released traffic results for November 2012 which showed an improvement in both passenger and air freight demand. Air travel was 4.6% higher compared to November 2011, up on the October result of 2.9%. Air freight volumes edged up 1.6% over the same period after declining 2.6% in October, year to year. Passenger capacity rose 3.2% and load factor improved one percentage point to 77.3% compared to the year-ago period.

"November brought some positive signs for air transport demand—particularly for air cargo. It is premature to consider this a turning point for air cargo markets in terms of bouncing back and regaining lost ground. But, when coupled with positive economic developments in the US and an improvement in business confidence in recent months, the conditions are aligning to see a return to growth in 2013. In 2013 we expect that cargo volumes will grow 1.4%, and passenger traffic will increase by 4.5% worldwide," said Tony Tyler, IATA's Director General and CEO.

"Passenger markets have held up better than cargo in the face of adverse economic conditions. But the current level of air travel is just 2% higher than at the start of 2012. This is considerably weaker than the long-term average growth rate," said Tyler.

Compared to October, November passenger traffic grew 0.6%. The majority of growth came from domestic markets, particularly China. November air freight volumes increased 2.4% on October. This reflects a shift in seasonal shopping to online retailers, which depend heavily on air cargo. It also shows improved consumer confidence in the US. Seasonally-adjusted air freight volumes have now risen back to the levels of mid-2012, after declines in the third quarter.

International Passenger Markets

November international passenger demand grew 5.6% compared to November 2011. However, the month-on-month increase was only 0.2%, indicating that year-on-year growth was more likely owing to depressed demand a year ago. Nevertheless, emerging markets in particular continued to perform well, and capacity increased 3.1% compared to a year ago. Load factor rose 1.8 percentage points to 76.3%.

* Asia-Pacific carriers experienced the strongest growth among the major regions, with demand up 6.2% year-on-year, on a capacity increase of 2.5%. Some of this growth, however, likely reflected depressed results in 2011 owing to flooding in Thailand. The growth of 1.7% in November compared to October could be due to volatility in the data given the extended period of slower growth since early 2012. Airlines in the region have experienced increased competition on long-haul markets, and continued improvement in the month-on-month growth would be needed to determine a change in trend. Load factor surged 2.6 percentage points to 75.7%.

* North American airlines' demand was up 2.6% compared to November 2011, an improvement on the weak 0.2% growth in October, when Hurricane Sandy impacted international flights across the North Atlantic. Airlines in the region have experienced some of the slower growth rates in international traffic throughout the year, but that is largely a result of tight capacity management rather than particularly weak demand. Capacity climbed 0.4%, pushing load factor up 1.6 percentage points to 79.6%, the highest for any region.

* Middle East airlines' demand expanded 10.5% compared to November 2011, second best among the regions, continuing the exceptional growth throughout the year. However, this was outstripped by a capacity increase of 11.2% which resulted in the load factor falling 0.5 percentage points to 73.5%. Month-on-month growth was 0.3%.

* Latin American carriers posted demand growth of 11.0% compared to November 2011, the strongest of any region. Although the Latin American economy has suffered from the Eurozone crisis and China's slower growth this year, strong domestic demand in several major economies has provided continued support to air travel. Capacity climbed 9.8% leading to an improvement in load factor of 0.8 percentage points to 76.3%. Compared to October, traffic rose 2.9%.

* African airlines saw demand expand 5.0% year-on-year but capacity growth was held in check, at 4.4%. Load factor rose 0.4 percentage points to 64.7% but remains the lowest of any region. Compared to October, African traffic was up just 0.1%.

Domestic Passenger Markets

Domestic markets rose 3.0% compared to November 2011, an improvement over the 2.4% year-on-year growth reported in October. However, the month-on-month increase was just 1.2%. Capacity growth of 3.3% outstripped demand and load factor dipped 0.2 percentage points to 79.1%.

* US demand travel was up 1.1%, but capacity expanded 2.7% leading to a 1.3 percentage point drop in load factor to a still industry-leading 82.1%. Demand rose just 0.6% compared to October.

* Indian demand fell by 6.5%, reflecting the slowing economy and sinking business confidence. Month-on-month traffic increased by 3.2%, the second month of positive growth in a row. However, it is not clear if India has turned the corner as business fundamentals remain weak.

* Japan traffic grew 4.4% year-on-year, eclipsing a 1.5% increase in capacity and pushing load factor up 1.9 percentage points to 67.3%—which was still the weakest for any market. Compared to October, demand rose 3%.

Air freight markets rebounded strongly in November, expanding by 1.6% after a 2.6% year-on-year decline in October. Although some of this increase reflects the impact of the Thai floods in the year-ago period, the month-on-month increase of 2.4% is a positive sign.

* Asia-Pacific airlines were responsible for almost half the rise in total volumes compared to October. The 2.4% rise in month-on-month volumes for the region was in contrast to a 1.5% decline compared to November 2011. Freight capacity fell 2.8% over the period. North American carriers increased freight traffic by 1.7%, and cut capacity by 0.6%, compared to November 2011. European airlines' year-on-year freight traffic was flat, and capacity grew just 0.3%.

* Middle East carriers' freight showed the strongest year-on-year growth of any region, up 16% on just a 6.1% rise in capacity. Load factor surged to 46.7%, up 4 percentage points.

* Latin American airlines' freight grew 4.2% year-on-year, but capacity grew at more than twice the rate, up 8.5%.

* African carriers grew freight volumes by 4.4% compared to November 2011. Although they kept the capacity increase to 3.6%, the load factor of 26.2% was still the weakest of all regions by a wide margin.

The Bottom Line:

"The recently-ended holiday period serves as a reminder of the value aviation provides. Travel made possible by aviation brought seasonal goods to markets and re-united friends and families around the globe to celebrate.

2013 is the 100th year of commercial aviation. Over that century, through an ever-expanding network, air transport has transformed the way we live, work and play, providing jobs for some 57 million people and supporting $2.2 trillion in economic activity by connecting people and goods on 35,000 routes.

But continued connectivity growth is not guaranteed. The industry's expected margin in 2013 of 1.3% is very weak. Furthermore current returns on investment are less than half the industry's cost of capital, which continues to erode shareholder value.

In the New Year, governments should resolve to bring down the barriers to connectivity growth. This can be done by addressing excessive taxation, high infrastructure costs, onerous regulation and improving the capacity and efficiency of airports and air navigation services. A strong air transport sector is in the self-interest of governments eager to support economic growth and development. Trade is the key to growth. For that connectivity is critical. And it is aviation that makes connectivity happen," said Tyler.





Trading for the week opened with both indices closing marginally lower. The ASPI and the S&P SL20 closed at 5,746 and 3,120 respectively with both indices closing lower by almost two points. Price drops in high market cap counters such as HNB, Chevron, Bukit Darah and Commercial contributed to this effect negating the 1.3% gain witnessed in JKH. A modest turnover of Rs 557Mn was recorded with blue-chips, JKH and Commercial Bank witnessing foreign buying interest. Top contributors to turnover were JKH with Rs 218Mn, Commercial Bank with Rs 94Mn and Aitken Spence with Rs 44Mn. JKH increased by Rs 3.10 to close at Rs 223.00 while Commercial Bank lost Rs 0.30 to close at Rs 104.60. The share price of Aitken Spence closed flat at Rs 120.00. Continued retail interest in Panasian Power was witnessed with the counter closing flat at Rs 2.90. Net foreign inflow stood at Rs 199Mn.

On Tuesday, the indices closed higher with the ASPI gaining 6 points to close at 5,752 and the S&P SL20 gaining 4 points, to close at 3,124. Price gains in JKH, LOLC helped counter the indices to post gains. An improved turnover of Rs 1.2Bn was recorded on the back of a crossing in Asiri Central amounting to almost 50% of the day's turnover. Continued interest in the banking sector and foreign participation in JKH was witnessed. The top contributors to turnover were Asiri Central with Rs 563Mn, Commercial Bank with Rs 254Mn and JKH with Rs 155Mn. The price of Asiri gained Rs 22.00 to close at Rs Rs 248.00 while Commercial Bank closed flat at Rs 105.00. JKH gained Rs 1.50 to close at Rs 224.50. Retail interest in Panasian Power was witnessed while Muller & Phipps witnessing renewed interest. A net foreign outflow of Rs 409Mn was witnessed.

Wednesday saw the indices closing marginally lower due to profit taking by investors. The ASPI lost 7 points to close at 5,745 while the S&P SL20 lost 3 points to close at 3,121. Treasury bill yields dropped across the board for the 5th straight week which in turn will help improve the condition of the market. Deals on Asiri Hospitals and Asiri Hospital Holdings helped boost the market turnover to Rs 497Mn while Dialog Axiata witnessed some selling pressure towards the end of trading. The top contributors to market turnover was Dialog Axiata with Rs 111Mn, Asiri Hospital Holdings with Rs 52.7Mn and CT Holdings with Rs 34Mn. The share price of Dialog Axiata closed flat at Rs 8.40 while Asiri Hospital Holdings increased by cents -/10 to close at Rs 11.50. CT Holdings increased by Rs 2.10 to close at Rs 130.10. A net foreign outflow of Rs 31Mn was recorded.

On Thursday, continued pofit taking in JKH and banking stocks resulted with the ASPI closing 13 points lower while the S&P SL20 witnessing a marginal increase of 0.66 points. An improved market turnover of Rs 1Bn was recorded, boosted by deals in blue-chips, JKH, HNB, Distilleries, Sampath and Nestle while retail participation remained subdued. HNB headed the top contributors list with Rs 256Mn followed by Distilleries with Rs 188Mn and JKH with Rs 160Mn. The share price of HNB gained Rs 1.60 to close at Rs 145.00 while Distilleries gained Rs 5.00 to close at Rs 175.00. Meanwhile JKH lost cents -/10 to close at Rs 223.90. The net foreign inflow stood at Rs 140Mn.

On the last trading day of the week, both indices recorded gains with the ASPI closing higher by 14 points at 5,746 and the S&P SL20 closing 12 points higher at 3,134. Low activity was witnessed with a turnover of Rs 454Mn being recorded for the day. Interest in blue-chip counters continued with JKH leading the top contributors list contributing Rs 79Mn. Distilleries and Ceylon Tobacco were also amongst the top contributors, contributing Rs 56Mn and Rs 45Mn respectively. The share price of JKH lost cents -/60 to close at Rs 223.00 while Distelleries gained Rs 5.20 to close at Rs 180.20. Ceylon Tobacco closed at Rs 852.00, gaining Rs 1.10. A net foreign outflow of Rs 15Mn was witnessed. With the Treasury bill rate continuing their downward trend steers the markets on to a positive direction. Throughout the week, retail participation continued to be subdued whilst private deals on blue chips helped boost turnover.





The Ministry of Co-operatives and Internal Trade yesterday reassured the public that there was no reason to panic over rumours of a shortage of rice, as the harvesting would begin by the end of this month. A spokesman for the Ministry said yesterday that a rice shortage had been predicted on previous occasions as well, especially during last year's drought, which affected the 'Maha' harvest (October–January).

The rains experienced at the end of last year and the beginning of this year have caused fear among the people of an impending rice shortage, due to floods during the Maha season. To add insult to injury, wholesale dealers have increased prices of rice while the retail shops had to adhere to government price controls which stipulated that a kilo of red rice should not be sold above Rs. 60 and a kilo of samba should not be sold above Rs. 70.

The Spokesman said however that this was the normal scenario during this period. They increased their prices owing to the upcoming harvesting period. With the 'Maha' harvest prices would go down again.

The spokesman added that the government had no intention of importing rice as its warehouses were well stocked.





The UNP will go to Court this week against 18 of its MPs who had violated the party whip and voted in favour of the impeachment resolution against Chief Justice Dr. Shirani Bandaranayake in Parliament last Friday.

Senior Vice President of the UNP Lakshman Kiriella told The Island that the 18 MPs, including members of the SLMC, CWC and DPF, who had contested on the UNP ticket, but crossed over to the government after the last parliamentary election, would be taken to Courts this week for violating a written communication from the UNP General Secretary that the party had decided to oppose the impeachment resolution and they were duty bound to abide by it.

"The papers are being drafted. Action will be instituted in the District Court during the course of this week," MP Kiriella said, noting that the said MPs had even instituted legal proceedings to preserve their seats which were obtained under the UNP banner.

Everyone, including the apex court judges were bound by the recent Supreme Court ruling that the Constitution was 'Supreme' and the subsequent Court of Appeal order quashing the Parliamentary Select Committee (PSC) Report, which found the CJ guilty of three of five allegations pertaining to her official and personal conduct, on the grounds that a PSC did not have the authority to probe the conduct of a judge, he noted.

Kiriella said that as an extension of their decisions, the UNP would not participate in the Parliamentary Council meeting today, which was scheduled to appoint a new CJ, based on the Presidents recommendation.

Accordingly, the two UNP members, Ranil Wickremesinghe and D. M. Swaminathan, would boycott the Parliamentary Council deliberation, he said.





In 2012 around 860 million paracetamol tablets had been issued to patients by the State-run hospitals, Health Minister Maithripala Sirisena revealed yesterday. He added that in general, about 560 to 570 million such tablets were issued per year, but the sudden rise in the use of the drug last year was a matter of great concern. Minister Sirisena had instructed Medical Supplies Division Director Dr. Kamal Jayasinghe to appoint a Committee to investigate the increase.

Minister Sirisena told The Island that the issue of paracetamol (analgesic) for fever, headache and bodily pain had seen a big rise last year. There could be many deaths that could be attributed to an over-dose of the drug.

He pointed out that two tablets, per dose, of paracetamol should be taken once every six hours, but the people were taking two tablets every four hours to relieve pain and that had become a common practice. Because of this, many health complications could emerge. Bowel, bodily and mental complications were some of the disorders identified.s

Minister Sirisena added that it had been found that some hospital staff were stealing paracetamol tablets from the hospitals and selling them to the private pharmacies. He had instructed MSD Director to find the root cause of the sudden increase in the issue of paracetamol.





Education in this country, both Primary and Secondary are plunging towards a dark abyss, the depth of which cannot be foreseen. My analysis of this calamity is given below.

As far as School education is concerned, one finds that the opinion of the Teachers Trade Union leaders of state schools, get centre stage and they get considerable prominence in the media. They continue to blame the Education Ministry and the Department of Examinations for all the ills in the education field. The Z score messup, the leakage of a Year 5 Scholarship Exam paper, and more recently the leakage of some questions in the G.C.E.O.Level Science paper by a Tuition Master have been highlighted in the media by these Trade Union leaders. Most certainly the above mentioned institutions should take a part of the blame for these shortcomings. In my opinion these shortcomings pale into insignificance when compared with the poor performance and negligence of thier duties by a large number of Teachers in State Schools. The lack of commitment and inadequacy of teaching by these teachers have resulted in a large percentage of school children being compelled to follow tuition classes to make up for the inadequacy of teaching at school. Very often these tuition classes are conducted by the teachers of the students themselves. I know of several parents of children who attend "prestigious" schools in Colombo whose children attend tuition classes in many subjects. One of these parents tells me that he spends over Rs 30,000 as tuition fees per month for his two children.The above mentioned parents have told me that some school teachers make very little effort to cover the syllabi in the respective subjects during school hours.

If this is the situation prevailing in the "prestigious" schools in Colombo, one can imagine the plight of the students of schools in the outstations with less facilities.Many of the parents of these children cannot afford to pay tuition fees. Having said that, I must admit that most of the teachers in the outstation schools are more diligent than their counterparts in the big cities. Professor Rajhiv Wijesinghe in an article that appeared in the Island of 1st January titled "Tuition and Ethics" has this to say inter alia - Quote: "What happens is that teaching in class is neglected, to be made up afterwards in private classes. - - So perhaps the Minister, without any inconsistency, could ban tuition by schoolteachers for their own students.

If such a principle is introduced and monitored carefully, I am sure the quality of teaching in schools would improve and the present breakdown of work as well as discipline in the school system could at least to some extent be remedied."Unquote.

Professor Sarath.B.S.Abeyakoon, a senior Professor at the University of Peradeniya, a former member of the University Grants Commission and a former Vice Chancellor, has this to say inter alia in an article that appeared in The Island of 2nd January. Quote: " We do have a habit of coming out with patchwork solutions to many of the major problems in education and higher education in Sri Lanka - not that we are lacking in adhoc measures in other spheres under government control.

In fact there are plenty. However I believe extreme care should be exercised when one deals with education as we have had more than sufficient ill prepared schemes that have already ruined more than one generation of our children.

There is no doubt that tuition is a menace, a huge one at that, and it is time that someone has a look. It is necessary to realise, that in order to have free education for all, there should not be any tuition classes.- - - If the ministry is serious about controlling evils that affect our education system, with special reference to public examinations, it needs to base reforms with the aim of the comp[lete eradication of the tuition menace." Unquote. Professors Rajhiv Wijesinghe and Sarath Abeyakoon have made very valuable suggestions in addition to those I have quoted. The Minister of Education,nay, the President himself must seriously consider the suggestions made by the learned Professors and other educationists and get their valuable advice and put education on the correct path, before we ruin another generation, having already ruined one generation as stated by Professor Abeyakoon .I have been constrained to air my views on the prevailing calamity in the education system having gained some experience in the field of education,as the Chairman of the Board of Trustees of a private fee levying Girls School ( Sinhala medium) which is registered with the government, situated in the outskirts of Colombo, for the over 10 years. This School has been run by a Board of Trustees (BOT) for over 50 years and I have served in the BOT for over 20 years on a voluntary basis.

The school has a student population of over 1800, and has classes from Pre-school to G.C.E.O.Level. In spite of restrictions placed by the Dept. of Education, one of which compels us to follow the time table of State schools, our school has gained pre-eminence in the academic field, where the school has achieved excellent results in the recent Year 5 Scholarship Examination and the G.C.E O Level Examination. Our School, namely St John's Girls School Panadura, has been judged as having come 1 st in the island in theYear 5 Scholarship Examination where 123 students( 52 % ) obtained marks beyond the "cut - off" point.

We had over 90 % passes in the G.C.E O level Examination. I would take this opportunity to thank the Principal and teachers of our school for the undivided attention and commitment towards the education of the students, and their perseverence and paying special attention towards the education of the weaker students.We have also embarked on a programme to make all our students law abiding and good citizens of this country. Our vision is to make our school a model school not only education-wise but also to prepare a grounding for our students to be exemplary citizens of this country.

On behalf of the future generation of students in this country, I would appeal to the intellectuals in the field of education and civil societies to meet the President and warn him of the calamity that will befall this country unless there is a radical change in the manner in which Education in this country is being handled at present, othertwise his dream of making this country the "Wonder of Asia" will remain a day dream.





Should a person who, in the name of his professional duties, appears for terrorists against the Sri Lankan Army during the war, be called a true professional or traitor? Whichever euphemism you tag on him, he earned a thumping professional fee from an NGO, which was hell bent on halting the war and prosecuting the Army. At that time his intentions were quite clear. He appeared not only for the highly inflated fee he received, but also with the expectation that the government would fall and another regime would be installed so that he would be the prime candidate for a plush office in the new, Tiger-affiliated, government.

Today, he has become the saviour and the enlightened emancipator of the present government, saving it from the infamous imbroglio it fell into by impeaching the Chief Justice. He, being a member of the Executive Committee of the Bar Association, is striving to mislead the highest in the land by bringing a theory of an international conspiracy hatched by none other than his nemesis, the law faculty of Colombo.

According to him, the 'raison d' etre was to cause a regime change through an international conspiracy hatched by the faculty of law, which believes that in this country, for the well being of the both communities - Sinhalese and Tamils – ought to be bifurcated; the Chief Justice is a lady who could be trusted to act in such a contingency and would permit such legal authority and sanction such a bifurcation by the instrument of law. She could hasten such an eventuality and the faculty of law has joined hands with the international and national traitors to protect her, for this and no other reason. He also makes the Executive believe that this group is being actively funded by European countries and the US.

Even the most astute, intelligent and cunning leader would fall prey and believe in such an outlandish theory. Our man, the informant would receive the plums of office as either the chairman of a large corporation or at least have his name added to the band of jokers, who were appointed recently to be in the silken legal fraternity. The real rationale is that this Polliwog, who contested various elections from three parties and strenuously struggled to come within the last three on the preferential list, has dreamt of intellectual prowess, written a thesis and submitted it to the faculty of law to earn a doctorate. The examiners took days and weeks to decipher the voluminous tome, and found that no one could understand a head or tail of this platitudinous hollow thesis. It was like his political discourse – at one time praising the Tigers and at another praising the heroics of the Sinhalese. Every time it was difficult to understand which side our man was on, and as his thesis was of similar jocularity, which the senate rejected, the man appealed to the human rights commission on violation of his fundamental rights and discrimination.

After the commission rejected it, he filed a case, which was laughed out of Court. The polliwog was awaiting his transformation and soon he got the opportunity with the impeachment of the Chief Justice. He, in order to take revenge, wove a tangled web of deceit and lies and spewed it around the faculty of law, which, according to him, was trying to bifurcate the country and impeaching the chief justice ought to be resisted under all circumstances. The lie seems to have worked as he got access to the high and mighty. But, he has forgotten that very soon he would be exposed.





Development is important, but the speed of it is more or equally important

January 14, 2013, 6:44 pm

Welcome

Welcome to the one hundred and twenty fifth (125th ) edition of the regular column "The Catalyst". It is actually a milestone for the column. 125 columns, regularly and weekly. That wasn't easy, I have to say. Anyway, I enjoy writing, so somehow I find the time to do the column in time for the next issue. The feedback from you, the readers has been extremely positive as well, and that keeps me encouraged to continue writing.

Thanks for reading!

Any feedback, suggestions or complains, please send to yvabeywickrama@gmail.com

Kandy Road

I visit Kandy quite frequently for work related activities. At least twice a month. If you leave Colombo in the early hours, it takes 4 hours to get there. In the evenings when there's more traffic on the road, it takes 5 hours to get back home. That is nine or ten hours on the road. All that for just 115 kilo meters (72 miles) each way. Ideally this should take only one hour each way. That is only if we had a proper highway. Colombo to Galle is of similar distance and that travelling time was cut down to just one hour with the development of the southern highway.

A couple of weeks ago, some dozen of us professionals attended a workshop at a down south hotel. We took the southern express way and it took only a couple of hours to get there and we still had plenty of energy to get on with work. If we had need to use the old Galle road, we would have wasted a good 3-4 extra hours, burning fuel and wasting our energy on travelling rather than spending it on productive work that will help this country.

Basically, we need more highways. Definitely one to link Kandy and also one to link the southern and northern parts of the country. And another to link west with east. In terms of reconciliation with the north and east, this is important. Highways actually help to flow and connect economy and cultures together.

10 hours of travelling when you are on a business or work purpose is just wasting productive hours of this country. That time could have been used for something useful. Something productive. Think of all the delivery vehicles that are wasting their time lagging behind vehicles and making their way through all the towns along the way. And then the amount of fuel wasted. And then the amount of environment pollution. The sound pollution.

I think reasons for highways are too many to mention.

Airport Road

We appreciate that the government in fact built the first highway of this country. Also the airport highway is just around the corner, although it is 30 odd years behind the schedule. I remember rushing to the airport through heavy traffic about a year ago where we almost missed the flight. I hope that the highway would be opened soon. Airport road is the first thing tourists experience when they come to a country. And we all know that first impressions matter, and that we have to get that right pretty soon if we are to become the tourist destination that we are dreaming to be.

We've been hearing of the Kandy-Colombo highway for a long time too. I checked the Ministry of Highways website and it says that "A feasibility study was completed in 2001 for this expressway and Environmental clearance has also been granted for the selected road trace by the Central Environmental Authority (CEA)." That is some 12 years, isn't it? Is this real or are we joking? How can it take so long? Even after 13 years of approving feasibility, I don't think a single stone has been laid for the new Kandy highway. When it comes to national level planning, that's a bit poor, I feel.

Why is all this delay?

The website doesn't give an end date for the project. So it can come any time in the next decade or may be even later, I guess.

Appreciation

Of course we appreciate that there has been a development drive in the country in the last couple of years. Road development including carpeting has been incredibly efficient. So, from the extreme low speed of development, we have improved the speed immensely. The coverage has been fairly broad as well. We can even bluntly say that we have not in our lifetimes seen road development of this scale and nature. So what has been done and achieved has to be appreciated.

Speed Issue

But when it comes to highways, there's a lot more to be done to connect the country together. Do we have the right attitude and technology to do them faster? Do we actually have a proper national plan and do we stick to it? Or do we change the plans all the time so that it never gets done?

Possibly political intervention gets in too. Certain politicians might want the roads to go through certain areas so that their electorate is covered. They even might want a certain road not go through certain areas so that theirs' or their supporters' properties are saved. I think this is where national planning has to come into play. We need national level plans for things like national highways, as they are of national importance, and then stick to them and implement them no matter what. I think that's the role of a strong development oriented government.

Development is important but the speed of it is more or equally important.

Do we have the laws right? For example, for doing the land acquisitions faster. If this is a bottleneck, which I am not sure, the government has to change laws and move forward. Singapore did that, and that's why they are where they are.

Private and Foreign Investment

Kandy city traffic is really bad. Colombo is no better. The improvement in transport and infrastructure would help. For example, we have heard of projects such as mono-rail and rail projects. None really have seen the light of day. I believe more private and foreign sector development with investment should be encouraged. Of course they will earn money but people are ready to pay a price for good service and infrastructure. Look at the Southern Express way again, people are willing to pay without complaining for what it offers. More encouragement is needed for those who are interested in these sort of projects.

I think gone are the days where everything is expected and can be provided by the government. Government can facilitate things but other parties can implement them.

I recently came across this beautiful quote. I would finish today's column with that. I think it might be meaningful in this context and also be meaningful broadly for our lives.

"The problem is not the problem; the problem is your attitude about the problem"

Thanks for reading 'The Catalyst' !

See you next week!

The Columnist

Yasas Vishuddhi Abeywickrama is an entrepreneur, trainer, writer and speaker. In 2011 he was recognised as one of the Ten Outstanding Young Persons (TOYP) in Sri Lanka. He co-founded Lanka BPO Academy (www.lankabpoacademy.lk). Yasas is an Executive Council Member of the Computer Society of Sri Lanka (CSSL – www.cssl.lk). He is a regular resource person for 'Ape Gama' program of FM Derana and '100% Youth' program on TV Derana.









Teachers are threatening to go to Court challenging the transfers recently made by the ministry. They allege that it was in violation of the Teachers' Transfer Policy.

General Secretary of the JVP-led Ceylon Teachers' Service Union (CTSU) Mahinda Jayasinghe told The Island that although the education ministry announced that they transferred teachers, who worked over 20 years in one school, some teachers who had worked only for 2 – 3 years in one school had also been transferred.

He said that according to the teachers' transfer policy, a teacher could serve only eight years in one school, but a teacher who worked in Hungama Vijayaba College, in the Hambantota District, for only three years was transferred to the Kalawana National School.

That teacher conducted over 35 classes a week, Jayasinghe said.

He said that a 58–year–old teacher was transferred to the Hungama Vijayaba College from Ratnapura Ferguson Balika, but teachers over 57 years of age could not be transferred, according to the Teachers' Transfer Policy.

Citing another example, he said a teacher who handed over retirement papers from Meegalewa Maha Vidyalaya, in the Kurunegala District, in October last year had been transferred to Eppawala Maha Vidyalaya. Jayasinghe said that those were only some examples, but such things happened countrywide.

"We asked the government to set up teacher transfer boards before it made transfers, but they didn't do so," he said.

Jayasinghe said that a teacher serving in the Hingurakgoda Maha Vidyalaya was already in the process of filing a fundamental rights petition and the CTSU would file a separate case.

When contacted by The Island, Additional Secretary of the Education Ministry H. M. R. B. Herath said the ministry focused only on transferring those who worked over 20 years in one school.

"Some mistakes have been made in affecting the transfers, but those will be corrected," Herath said.





Deputy Speaker Chandima Weerkkody yesterday said that the appointment of a new Chief Justice would be done by the President and that appointment could not be challenged before a court of law.

Deputy Speaker Weerakkody said that when the then President Chandrika Kumaratunga appointed Shirani Bandaranayke, a Supreme Court judge in 1996, some parties had challenged the appointment in the Supreme Court which had given a determination that the Presidential appointments could not be challenged.

He told The Island that it was upto the lawyers or judges to accept or not the new Chief Justice and added that Shirani Bandaranayake had been already removed from office and therefore she could not work in that capacity anymore.

He said that he was confident that Shirani Bandaranayake was well aware of the laws and would not take any immature decisions and there would be no need to send army officers to remove her forcibly.





The police Special Task Force on Sunday nabbed a notorious underworld character, suspected to be involved in many crimes, with plenty of incriminating evidence in the Embilipitiya area.

He was arrested around noon along with a T-56 assault rifle, two magazines, a forged identity card, a police log book, a forged identity card of military intelligence, 17 SIM cards, several cell phones, imitation gold jewellery, and more than Rs. 90,000 in notes.

He had earlier been convicted of holding up a jewellery store at Kiribathgoda and being in possession of a grenade. He was due to be produced before the Embilipitiya Magistrate after interrogation.

He was arrested by a team headed by the OIC of the Suriyawewa police commando camp, Inspector S. K. Abeysinghe on the directions of Senior Superintendent of Police J. M. Rishad.

The suspect is a 34 year-old resident of Morantuduwa, Bandaragama and a father of one. He is being grilled by a team led by Assistant Superintendent of Police Basil Krishantha.





Saudi Arabia criticised world reaction to its beheading a Sri Lankan maid convicted of killing her employer's baby, the official Saudi news agency SPA reported.

Riyadh "deplores the statements made... over the execution of a Sri Lankan maid who had plotted and killed an infant by suffocating him to death, one week after she arrived in the kingdom," the government spokesman said.

Rizana Nafeek was beheaded on Wednesday in a case that sparked widespread international condemnation, including from rights groups which said she was just 17 when she was charged with murdering the baby in 2005.

Nafeek was found guilty of smothering the infant after an argument with the child's mother.

The case soured diplomatic relations with Sri Lanka which on Thursday recalled its ambassador to Saudi Arabia in protest.

The government spokesman condemned what he called "wrong information on the case," and denied that the maid was a minor when she committed the crime.

"As per her passport, she was 21 years old when she committed the crime," he said, adding that "the kingdom does not allow minors to be brought as workers."

He said the authorities had tried hard to convince the baby's family to accept "blood money," but they rejected any amnesty and insisted that the maid be executed.

Saudi Arabia "respects ... all rules and laws and protects the rights of its people and residents, and completely rejects any intervention in its affairs and judicial verdicts, whatever the excuse," the spokesman said.

The UN's human rights body on Friday expressed "deep dismay" at the beheading, and the European Union said it had asked the Saudi authorities to commute the death penalty.

Human Rights Watch said Nafeek had retracted "a confession" that she said was made under duress. She said the baby accidentally choked to death while drinking from a bottle.

Rape, murder, apostasy, armed robbery and drug trafficking are all punishable by death under Saudi Arabia's strict version of Sharia law.

Last year the ultra-conservative Muslim kingdom beheaded 76 people, according to an AFP news agency tally based on official figures, while HRW put the number at 69.





The United Kingdom recognizes and welcomes progress made in Sri Lanka as the absence of conflict has brought greater security and opened up economic development, Foreign Office Minister for the Middle East and North Africa Alistair Burt has said recently.

Speaking at the UK parliamentary debate on "Sri Lanka and the UN responsibility to protect" last week Burt said, UK officials have visited all nine provinces of Sri Lanka in the past 12 months and have seen much to welcome.

The Foreign Minister told the British MPs at the debate the absence of conflict has brought greater security and opened up economic development. Among the many he mentioned, were the progress in demining with UK financial support, rehabilitation of thousands of ex-combatants, including child soldiers, resettlement of the displaced people, and reduction in troop numbers.

However, he said there is more to be done to ensure that there is lasting peace and prosperity.

During the debate, Democratic Unionist Party parliamentarian from North Antrim, Ian Paisley, said he has visited Sri Lanka on a number of occasions, both as a private individual and on a cross-party parliamentary trip and his experience was very different from what he has heard from "propagandists not in Sri Lanka."

"The people on the ground gave a very different message from the out-of-touch one that I have heard from the self-appointed diaspora, both in Canada and here in the United Kingdom," the MP said.

He said in many aspects, Sri Lanka has made more measurable gains post-conflict than Northern Ireland.

"That is what I have seen on the ground, and we should recognise it and stop the suffocation of a country by its past and help Sri Lanka to move forward to a better future," the parliamentarian stressed.

Addressing the progress of the implementation of recommendations of the Lessons Learnt and Reconciliation Commission (LLRC) the Foreign Minister said he will be visiting Sri Lanka in a "couple of weeks" to see if Sri Lanka will consider implementing all the LLRC recommendations and how they will be implemented.

Responding to the suggestions by some parliamentarians that UK should boycott the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM) to be held in Sri Lanka in November, Burt said it is too soon to talk about UK's attendance plans for the meeting.

He noted that Sri Lanka was scheduled to host CHOGM in 2011, but given ongoing concerns about the humanitarian and human rights situation, the UK and other Commonwealth members did not support its bid.

However, Commonwealth members decided that Sri Lanka would host in 2013, he said adding that to reopen that decision would require a consensus of all member states and he does not think that is likely.

He pointed out to the MPs calling for a boycott that a decision on the location of CHOGM is decided by the Commonwealth and not UK.

"The meeting will discuss many issues, not just Sri Lanka, but as Sri Lanka well knows it will inevitably shine a spotlight on the host country, demonstrating either its progress or lack of it. It is up to Sri Lanka to choose what will be seen," Burt noted.

"We expect the Sri Lankan Government to demonstrate that they uphold the values of the Commonwealth," he emphasized.

Dismissing the suggestion by some MPs in the debate that UK should not let the Queen attend the Commonwealth meeting, the British minister clarified that the Queen, will attend the meeting as the head of the Commonwealth, not as the UK head of state.

"Her attendance is not a decision for the UK Government. If she were to ask for advice, it would be from all Commonwealth members," he said.

Recognizing that process of reconciliation following the resolution of the conflict is not easy, the British Minister said, unless long-term reconciliation is achieved the problem will come back at some stage to haunt everyone in Sri Lanka.

Although some progress has been made in implementing some of the recommendations in the LLRC report, more needs to be done, Burt said and told the debate Sri Lanka needs to be given time and good will must be there on all sides to see the process through.

"We are mindful of what has happened in the past and of the wishes of all Sri Lankans for the future," the Foreign Minister said. (Priu.gov.lk)





Attorney General Mohan Pieris is tipped to be sworn in as the 44th Chief Justice of Sri Lanka this evening.

Reliable sources said last night that President Rajapaksa had nominated Pieris to the Parliamentary Council (PC) yesterday evening.

Accordingly, the PC, which meets this morning, with Speaker Chamal Rajapaksa in the chair, is expected to approve the appointment of Pieris as the new CJ.

An old boy of St Joseph's College Colombo and Royal College, Pieris entered the Law College. On passing out as an attorney-at-law, he served as a junior to President'sCounsel Daya Perera and senior attorney-at-law D. R. P. Gunatillake. He later served as a solicitor in Wales. In 1981 he joined the Attorney General's Department as a State Counsel and later served for about 15 years as a Senior State Counsel.





President Mahinda Rajapaksa has acted swiftly after the impeachment of Chief Justice Shirani Bandaranayake by Parliament to issue a Presidential decree that removes her from office. This letter has been delivered to the Chief Justice. However, there is considerable support from the legal fraternity that she remains Chief Justice regardless of the Presidential letter. This is on account of a Supreme Court ruling that the impeachment process was not in conformity with the law. A group of leading lawyers has said, "The Lawyers Collective categorically reiterates that Hon. Dr. Shirani Bandaranayake remains the Chief Justice, notwithstanding being unconstitutionally removed." What will eventually transpire in the days ahead is unclear.

The impeachment has polarized the political parties in Parliament. The division of votes in Parliament was on party lines with only the government members voting in favour of the impeachment. But there were also signs of cracks within the government coalition. For the first time since President Rajapaksa assumed office a handful of MPs, numbering five, did not vote along with their compatriots but chose to abstain. These included Prof. Tissa Vitarana, who headed the All Party Representatives Committee that formulated a political solution to the ethnic conflict at the height of the war. Others included the leader of the Communist Party, D E W Gunasekera and Liberal Party leader Prof. Rajiva Wijesinha, who has been one of the most eloquent defenders of the government on other controversial matters.

There is also a horizontal divide within the population at large. The government may still be able to convince the rural masses of the people about its position on the impeachment and its theory of an international conspiracy through the government-controlled propaganda machine. This accounts for the absence of mass mobilization on the issue of the impeachment. However, the urban intelligentsia appears to be united in opposition to the impeachment. There is no ethnic polarization on the issue of the impeachment as there was on the issue of the war. There is no independent professional, religious or civic organization that has been supportive of the impeachment. All these groups have issued statements either condemning it or urging the government to step back.

GOVERNMENTAL ANXIETY

President Rajapaksa's decision to sign the removal decree contradicted his assurance some weeks earlier that he was considering an alternative to acting immediately on the report of the Parliamentary Select Committee. The President said that he was considering appointing an independent committee to advise him on the next steps. This was in the context of the Appeal Court and Supreme Court taking the position that the findings of the Parliamentary Select Committee were a nullity in law. The appointment of an independent committee to advise the President would have given a breathing space, and cooling off period, in which there could have been sober discussion about the possibilities of a compromise solution.

The President's decision to go ahead with the removal of the Chief Justice in hasty circumstances can be best explained in terms of the insecurities felt by the government leadership about a zero-sum game, in which one side must lose all. After the government and judiciary collided it has became virtually impossible for either side to back down. If the government had backed down, it would have given the judiciary the opportunity to take action on a number of outstanding issues, including instances of corruption, abuse of power and even regarding human rights violations that took place during the war. On the other hand, having ruled that the impeachment process is outside of the law, the judiciary also cannot accept a process that gets rid of its head in an extra-legal or illegal manner.

An issue that could be causing considerable anxiety to the government is the assertion by the UNP that it would go to the courts and take legal action against those MPs who won election on the UNP ticket on the proportional system, and later crossed over to the government side. In reality they no longer represent the voters who once voted for the Opposition. Earlier Supreme Court decisions denied the right of the UNP to sack their members who crossed over to the ruling party. This enabled the Government to obtain a two-third majority in Parliament. The UNP has now taken the position that these crossover MPs violated a party call to vote against the impeachment. A newly assertive Supreme Court, conscious of the grave harm that this artificial two thirds majority in Parliament gives, may take steps to remedy this situation. The loss of the 16 crossover MPs would deal a major blow to the government and strip it of its 2/3 majority which it has been using to steamroll its way in the political decision making.

MOB RULE

The most important feature of a democratic system is the integrity of its institutions. The government decision to override decisions of the Supreme Court at its discretion, will lead to the judiciary becoming another administrative department of the government to carry out its decisions rather than go by the intrinsic merits or otherwise of the matters in issue before them. In this context there is an increasing fear that Sri Lanka may be heading towards a failed State situation where there is no Rule of Law or supremacy of the Law and the Constitution. Sri Lanka is therefore in a constitutional crisis even though most people in the country may be unaware of this.

Already mobs have celebrated the impeachment outside the Chief Justice's residence. Earlier mobs with clubs in their hands also threatened and assaulted protesting lawyers and civil society activists in the presence of the police who stood by. Photographs of these ugly incidents were published in the media. There is cause for grave anxiety that the ground is being laid for non-democratic processes to gain strength. It is ironic that in attempting to decapitate the Supreme Court, by removing its head, the importance of the judiciary as a check and balance on the abuse of power has also been revealed. If the legitimacy of the national judiciary and Rule of Law is not speedily restored, the case will grow stronger for international judicial interventions in the internal affairs of the country.

There may be no doubt that life in Sri Lanka in general has improved after the end of the war for which the government can claim credit. However the undermining of public institutions is bound to make this improvement unsustainable in the longer term. Where the Rule of Law breaks down, it is inevitable that mob rule will eventually prevail. It is reported in the media that the President had approached several eminent legal personalities and even sitting judges to take on the position of Chief Justice, but so far without success. The Bar Association has decided not to welcome any new Chief Justice appointed under these circumstances. It would be judicious if the President were to try and get a consensus amongst all political parties and the Bar Association regarding the future of the judiciary.





The new-look Harshana Godamanna, better known as 'Godda' among the local tennis fraternity, is now seen in action at the Queen's Gymkhana Open Ranking Tennis Tournament in Colombo. He is here to play in next month's Davis Cup tie against Pakistan, amidst his ongoing academic commitments in USA, after his memorable show at last April's Davis Cup in Hong Kong - China. The most prolific player to emerge from Sri Lanka during the last decade or so, 'Godda' was pictured playing his stormy forehand drive by Kamal Wanniarachchi yesterday at the country's first Open Ranking 'A' Grade event at Queen's Gymkhana Club.

The quarter-finalists of Men's Singles were found by yesterday, January 14, at the first 'A' Grade annual Open Ranking Tennis Tournament of the year, the Queen's Gymkhana Club Open, now being held at the Club clay courts in Colombo.





The Cosmetic Devices and Drug Regulatory Authority (CDDRA) last week cancelled the license of a leading private pharmacy in Nuwara-Eliya as it had been found possessing a drug which carried the government logo.

The drug in question was the mixtard insulin injection for diabetic patients.

Following investigations conducted by the Health Ministry, Minister Maithripala Sirisena instructed the CDDRA to cancel the licenses of errant pharmacies which were engaged in similar offences and prosecute them.

Minister Sirisena told The Island that the real culprits were diabetic patients who obtained the mixtard insulin injection from the Nuwara-Eliya main hospital's diabetic clinic. The diabetic clinic issued the mixtard injection to the patients who in turn sold the drug to the private pharmacy. He said he had also received complaints that some hospital employees were stealing various kinds of government drugs and selling them to the private pharmacies.





Students who sat the GCE (A/L) examination 2012 for the second or third time and received letters asking them to participate in the leadership training programme according to the 2011 exam results, fear that they would have to register with a university if they participate in the programme.

If they register with a university according to the 2011 results, they will not be able to reverse the course, even if they get better results at the 2012 examination.

The 'Z–Score' rankings of the 2011 A/L examination have been changed according to a Court order and the university intake has been increased by around 5,000 students. However, the University Grants Commission (UGC) has yet to release the cut – off mark for the university intake based on 2011 results.

Some students sat the examination again last August and the results are pending.

"We received letters to participate in the next stage of the leadership training programme, scheduled to start tomorrow, but we are in a quandary as to whether to attend it or not, since we expect better results this time," one student said.

When contacted by The Island, Secretary to the Higher Education Ministry Dr. Sunil Jayantha Navaratne said that there was no need to fear participating in the leadership training programme.

"Students could participate in the leadership training programme," Dr. Navaratne said adding that it was not mandatory to register with a university after participating in the leadership training programme.

He said that if they participated in the leadership training programme once, they need not participate in it the next time if they qualify to enter the university, based on the 2012 results.

The first batch of the leadership training programme concluded on January 12. The second batch will begin their training tomorrow at 22 centres countrywide. About, 7,860 students will undergo the leadership training programme in the second batch.

The third batch will begin their training on February 12 after the second batch completes theirs on February 01.

This time 26,721 students will undergo the leadership training programme in three batches. There has been an increase of 5,609 students over that of the previous year due to the Supreme Court decision in the aftermath of the Z–Score fiasco in 2011.

If there are any questions on the leadership training programme, students can contact the ministry on 0112399314 and 0112435306.









Another goal from the prolific Lionel Messi helped Barcelona to a 3-1 victory over Malaga in La Liga as the leaders ended the first half of the season with a record points haul. Robin van Persie was on target as Premier League table-toppers Manchester United got the better of Liverpool but Juventus's lead in Serie A was cut once again after they were held 1-1 at Parma.

SPAIN

Unbeaten leaders Barcelona ended the first half of the season with a record 55 of a possible 57 points when Messi scored one goal and had a hand in two more in a 3-1 win at Malaga on Sunday.

An 18th victory in 19 games for Tito Vilanova's side restored their 11-point lead over second-placed Atletico Madrid, who earlier secured a 10th win in 10 home matches this term with a 2-0 success against Real Zaragoza.

Barca's win also extended their advantage over arch rivals Real Madrid to 18 points after the stuttering champions, mired in third, were held to a 0-0 draw at bottom side Osasuna on Saturday.Messi's goal was the World Player of the Year's 28th in the league this season and the ninth straight game he has scored, a personal best and one short of the La Liga record last achieved in the 1996-97 season by former Barca striker Ronaldo.

ENGLAND

Manchester United maintained their seven-point lead at the top of the Premier League with a 2-1 home win over Liverpool where hotshot Van Persie opened the scoring before a nervous finish.

Nemanja Vidic put United 2-0 up without knowing much about it then substitute Daniel Sturridge gave Liverpool a lifeline and nearly snatched an undeserved draw.Second-placed Manchester City won 2-0 at Arsenal, their first league win there since 1975, thanks to Laurent Koscielny's 10th-minute red card and goals from James Milner and Edin Dzeko.City captain Vincent Kompany was also harshly dismissed in the second half.

Chelsea are third after a 4-0 triumph at Stoke City's usual fortress after two Jon Walters own goals while fourth-placed Tottenham Hotspur drew 0-0 at former boss Harry Redknapp's bottom side Queens Park Rangers.

ITALY

Juventus, eight points clear at the top of Serie A before Christmas, had their lead cut to three by Lazio after they were held 1-1 at Parma.Andrea Pirlo gave put Juventus ahead early in the second half with a free kick which was deflected in by Jonathan Biabiany but Nicola Sansone kept Parma's unbeaten home record intact with a 77th minute equaliser.Lazio took advantage of the result by beating Atlanta 2-0 with a controversial second-half goal from Sergio Floccari, who appeared to control the ball with his hand, and an own goal by Davide Brivio.Napoli stayed two points behind Lazio in third with a 3-0 win over Palermo while Cagliari's 2-1 win at home to Genoa lifted them out of the relegation zone.

FRANCE

Olympique Lyon reclaimed the Ligue 1 top spot with a 2-1 win at struggling Troyes thanks to centre back Samuel Umtiti's first league goal. Lyon are on 41 points from 20 games, two ahead of Paris St Germain who could only manage a 0-0 home draw against lowly Ajaccio after Thiago Motta was sent off on the stroke of half time.Olympique Marseille are third on 38 after their four-game winning run in all competitions ended with a 3-1 defeat at 17th-placed Sochaux.Girondins Bordeaux moved up to fourth with a 2-0 win at Stade Rennes, who fell to sixth. Both clubs are on 32 points, along with Nice who were inspired by striker Dario Cvitanich's brace in their 5-0 home hammering of Valenciennes.

PORTUGAL

Benfica and Porto scored twice each in a goal-filled opening 20 minutes of a match that ended 2-2 at the Luz stadium to keep the Portuguese Premier League title chase wide open.The Lisbon club lead the table with 36 points from 14 matches, three ahead of Porto who have a game in hand.Third-placed Braga missed the opportunity to close in on the pace-setters, losing 3-2 at Nacional, and are 10 points behind Benfica.





CHITTAGONG – In the port of Chittagong, containers pile up like colorful cubes of sugar. Dozens of ships scurry down the estuary of the Karnaphuli, the river that winds around the economic capital of Bangladesh to finally stream down into the Bay of Bengal.

The port is bustling. The newly built mooring container terminal (NCT) is beautiful, with an extension of five berths. The company was built by the China Harbour company – a symbol of China's multiplying contributions to the development of Bangladesh. A little further upstream, a 950 meter-long four-way bridge was built by the China Major company. Towering over shantytowns and wooden fishing boats, the majestic structure is Chittagong's symbol of modernity.

Nowadays in Bangladesh, it's hard to miss all the Chinese constructions. In October, there was yet another Chinese delegation signing deals and offering subsidized loans for a water treatment facility, a private power plant and an international airport in the fishing port of Cox's Bazar.

But mostly, China is building a spectacular deep-sea harbor in the island of Sonadia for an estimated cost of $5 billion. There is also a tunnel under the Chittagong River, a China-Bangladesh highway via Burma (Myanmar), and the project of a new industrial park.

"China is supporting us through their big projects," says Raisul Haq Bahar, the Chittagong Daily Star's editor-in-chief. "They have the know-how, the people, the money and the technological investments." Amir Khasru Mahmud Chowdhury, the former minister of commerce and regional head of the BNP (Bangladesh National Party) believes that "the Chinese are developing a real strategy, anticipating on the next 30 years. They are selling their country, their products and services. While the westerners are busy attending fancy diner parties in Dacca, the Chinese are working. They will soon be the world's first economy and a country like Bangladesh cannot ignore that."

Today, the Chinese focus on the strategic sector of transportation can be seen in Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan, Burma, Sri Lanka and Pakistan. All of these countries surround... India. In a region where it has always been very influential, the Indian government was quick to suspect the Chinese expansion of hiding an "encirclement" strategy. The two Asian giants are locked in a struggle for regional domination. "In the way it deals with China, India has aligned itself with the U.S.," says Amir Khasru Mahmud Chowdhury.

The "small" nations of the Indian subcontinent have always been wary of their Indian big brother, whose domination they resent. "Indians don't bring us any interesting deals," says this former member of the Bangladeshi government. The Chinese alternative seems more appealing. So much so that India is thinking about changing its strategy to become more pragmatic. Salman Khurshid, the Indian minister of foreign affairs admitted this recently: "New Delhi must accept the reality of the Chinese presence in many sectors previously considered as India's exclusive domain."

Chinese investments are visibly geared toward improving maritime transport infrastructures. In Chittagong, China has big plans: "Our goal is to replace the port of Singapore!" says lieutenant-colonel Moazzem Hossain, head of security at the Chittagong port authority. This summer, he went to the ports of Le Havre (France) and Hamburg (Germany) to take notes. "They are very clean and organized," he admits, "but our port here in Chittagong is getting more modern by the day and will be the next reference in South Asia." Ninety percent of Bangladesh's import-export passes through here, mostly textile bound for Europe and the U.S.

China's interest for harbor projects stretches to Sittwe, in Burma, where there is the project of a gas pipeline between the port and China. There is also the brand new Hambantota port in Sri Lanka, the construction of which started during the civil war (1983-2009), when Beijing was providing weapons to Colombo against the Tamil separatists.

In the Maldives, the Chinese projects didn't pan out but a Chinese embassy was built in the capital, Male, in 2011. Pakistan, on the other hand, has commissioned a Chinese company for the construction of its new port in Gwadar, on the Arabian Sea. Being present in every port has a purpose: it's the famous "string of pearls" strategy, which consists in China getting exemption from port of call taxes and securing trading routes for Middle Eastern oil while asserting its commercial influence. For now, China's involvement in Bangladesh is undeniably a positive thing, as it is a symbol of dynamic development. (Wordcrunch.com)





The Bar Association of Sri Lanka (BASL) would work with the new Chief Justice to be appointed shortly but boycott the ceremonial induction and welcome address of Dr. Shirani Bandaranayake's successor, BASL sources said last night. Former Attorney General Mohan Peiris is tipped to succeed the impeached Dr. Bandaranayake.

"The BASL will have to cooperate with the new Chief Justice as official work of the Judiciary will have to continue independently, sources told The Island last night.

Responding to a question whether the BASL had softened its stance on the new CJ, sources said, the association was left with no alternative.

Meanwhile, President Mahinda Rajapaksa told the members of the BASL, at a meeting at Temple Trees yesterday, that he had submitted his nominee for the post of Chief Justice to the Parliamentary Council and it was expected to be ratified this morning. That was confirmed by Presidential Spokesman Mohan Samaranayake.

"Now that President Rajapaksa has nominated another candidate to be the new CJ, we have decided to soften our stance but we will boycott the ceremonial induction," the BASL source said.

President Rajapaksa explained to the BASL that former Chief Justice Dr. Bandaranayake had been impeached in accordance with the existing Constitutional provisions and a two-thirds parliamentary majority.

However, when the BASL had pointed out that the two apex Courts – the Supreme Court and the Appeal Court had held that the Standing Orders in Parliament had no power impeach a Chief Justice, President Rajapaksa had assured them that there would be amendments to the Constitution which would ensure that there will not be a repeat of the circumstances which led to the impeachment of Dr. Bandaranayake, the BASL sources said.

The President requested the BASL membership to preserve the sanctity of the Judiciary and not to turn the precincts of the superior courts complex into a venue of protests like the Lipton Circus.

The BASL also voiced its concern to the President over a steep rise in stamp duties for affidavits and land registrations and others through the Budget 2013. The President requested the BASL to submit a proposal to him on how those could be reduced and he would consider it seriously.





The police are said to be in a quandary over impeached Chief Justice Dr. Shirani Bandaranayake refusing to budge from her post and reportedly demanding heightened security from the Inspector General of Police.





