From time immemorial, people were able to come to the towns in search of better facilities which were supposed to be available in urban areas. Businesses, job opportunities, health and educational facilities were some of them.However,with the increase of population in these areas, people are confronted with various social and cultural problems for which no solution seems to be easily available.

The increase of population in this way has spawned a lot of problems such as garbage, congestion of roads, lack of housing facilities, environmental problems, competition among youth for job opportunities and competition among parents for admitting their children to prestigious schools.

The solution for increasing garbage including degradable items is not to be found in spite of the fact that recycling is an accepted solution. There is no proper method of keeping bags of garbage in urban areas near the roads in urban areas until such time that they are disposed by the CMC authorities The stray dogs tear these bags spread the garbage all over the road. The ever increasing number of vehicles has led to the congestion of roads in the urban areas in spite of the fact that building of fly overs and introduction of one way roads seem to be a solution to some extent. For example,the vehicles coming towards the Colombo city through Kollonnawa and Dematagoda have caused inconvenience to the general public due to the narrowness of this road.

As far as housing facilities are concerned , it is said that males sleep outside their houses, letting the women and children sleep inside the houses in some areas in Colombo due to the lack of space. The environmental pollution due to urbanisation has reached an unprecedented level. The waterways that carry away rain water begins to stink as a result of blocks caused by polythene and discarded items thrown in by the people. Blaring horns of the vehicles in the congested streets deafen the urban dwellers. It is said that the motorists in the developed countries do not toot horns in that manner. Noise pollution is so bad that it has retarded the efficiency and performance of the working people.

The competition among the youth for jobs in urban areas has aroused frustration and disgust with the existing governments because rural youth are unable to find jobs according to their qualifications and capabilities.The parents are also engaged in an endless battle to admit their children to recognised colleges in the cities.They use dishonest means like changing their addresses.

There are solutions for these social problems if the authorities take steps to encourage the people to live rural areas, by giving them same facilities as those who live in towns.





