The Island-Business"At a time, when the world is to face an oncoming economic crisis, the attraction of mega shipping lines to SLPA stabilizes its reliability and stability in the region, where a number of mega port development projects have been launched.

We could do that by building confidence in shipping companies and by going beyond the traditional methods of operation and equipment. Bringing container shipping company, American President Line (APL)back in to the Jaya Container terminal (JCT) is a great achievement." said Dr. Priyath Bandu Wickrama, Chairman of Sri Lanka Ports Authority, briefing the media, on the signing of the agreement between SLPA and APL.

APL had previously called at SLPA terminals, in fact the first container ship to be serviced in Sri Lanka was owned by APL.

But later during the latter part of 2003 it moved its three services out of JCT. Now the SLPA has improved its own operations, offering superior service and vastly improved productivity with faster turnaround times at competitive rates. The return of APL to SLPA terminals was negotiated by the new SLPA management. APL is the world's seventh largest container shipping line controlling almost four percent global container movements. It is a wholly owned subsidiary of Singapore based Neptune Orient Lines, a global transportation and logistics company engaged in shipping and related businesses.

Addressing the media, Abraham Elias, Managing Director, APL Pvt Ltd thanked Chamal Rajapaksa, Minister of Ports, Aviation, Irrigation and Water Management and the management of SLPA for this opportunity given to them and that they look forward for a strong partnership.

The move will result in the SLPA – managed terminals gaining a huge increase in container throughput, with a resultant increase in revenue.

The return of APL is considered another achievement of the process to develop SLPA under its three year plan, launched by the Chairman to improve efficiency and productivity of SLPA. Chairman and Managing Director Capt. Nihal Keppetipola and the SLPA team are putting their best efforts thus ensuring high operational productivity levels in the port.

APL now operates a total of five services (four mainline vessels and one feeder vessel) through Colombo Port and with the return of the line to SLPA, its annual throughout is expected to be increased to about 250,000 Twenty –foot Equivalent Units (TEU) during the years to come.

, Minister of Ports, aviation, Irrigation and Water Management, Chamal Rajapaksa added that they are planning to expand the ways of bringing more profits and requested the support of all SLPA staff in working out their plan.

Abraham Elias, Managing Director, Roshan Joseph, manager-Operations of APL Lanka Pvt Ltd; with Priyath Bandu Wickrama, Chairman of SLPA and Capt. Nihal Keppetipola, Managing Director of SLPA signed the Terminal service Agreement between APL and SLPA witnessed and affirmed by Minister Chamal Rajapaksa on the 31st December and will see APL operating with JCT from 2009.



