UA empowers sales staff with laptops and tabs

January 11, 2013, 7:19 pm

Union Assurance (UA) recently launched a programme to empower a further 1,000 sales staff with laptop devices in an effort to strengthen its distribution efficiency. The company hopes to present laptops to its complete sales force in the future. Providing convenient insurance solutions for potential as well as existing customers is the company's focus and improving communications between insurance advisors in the field, customers and the organisation. By empowering the sales force on the field, the company also hopes to reinforce its promise of transparent insurance solutions.

The laptops will assist all insurance advisers of Union Assurance to share information on products and services instantly, track premium payments, obtain information on customer policies. It will also assist the advisors to build and strengthen customer relationships while in the field.

Union Assurance recently introduced the Digital Advisor Toolkit (DAT), a tri-lingual application compatible for both laptops and tablet phones. It was developed to assist the field force of UA who are now able to utilize DAT to propose different insurance solutions and covers to their valued customers. Advisors are also able to email the PDF version of the quotation to the customer with all required information which includes the plan details, illustrations, Financial Need Analysis (FNA) and the quotation.





Emirates upgrades Zambian and Zimbabwean service

January 11, 2013, 7:20 pm

Emirates, one of the world's fastest growing international airlines, will add more than 1,600 seats a week on its Lusaka and Harare routes when it introduces a Boeing 777-300ER on its daily flight from Dubai commencing 1st February 2013.

A 354-seat Boeing 777-300ER, the longest passenger aircraft ever to touch down in Lusaka and Harare, will replace a 237-seat Airbus A330-200 on the route - a capacity increase of more than 50 per cent. The upgrade comes on the first anniversary of the route's launch. Since 1 February 2012 more than 55,000 passengers have travelled with Emirates on the Dubai-Lusaka-Harare route.

"Our Lusaka and Harare service has come of age and with demand continuing to increase, this is the right time for Emirates to be expanding its capacity," said Jean Luc Grillet, Emirates' Senior Vice President Commercial Operations for Africa. "With the introduction of this larger aircraft, we will offer almost 5,000 seats total every week on the route between Dubai, Lusaka and Harare".

The Boeing 777-300ER is the backbone of the Emirates fleet, with 82 in service and a further 69 on order.

The new aircraft has 354 seats in a three-class configuration offering eight luxurious First Class suits, 42 seats in Business Class and generous space for 304 passengers in Economy Class, providing an additional 50 percent capacity, or 117 extra seats per flight, compared with the current Airbus A330-200 aircraft being operated on the route. The change of aircraft also provides more cargo space. Throughout the aircraft, passengers will be able to experience the airline's award-winning ice in-flight entertainment system with a choice of over 1,400 channels on-demand as well as meals prepared by gourmet chefs. Emirates is also known for its award-winning service from its international cabin crew recruited from over 100 countries around the world.

Since the route was launched, Emirates has carried more than 5000 tons of cargo on its Lusaka and Harare service, enabling companies to export their goods across the globe. Popular commodities being shipped include perishables such as vegetables and flowers, while imports include pharmaceuticals and mining equipment. The arrival of the larger aircraft will mean an increase in cargo carrying capacity of some 22 percent to more than 18,000 kgs per flight.

"Emirates constantly strives to deliver its passengers with the very best service. The Boeing 777-300ER aircraft forms the backbone of Emirates' fleet, and its introduction on the Lusaka and Harare route reflects our commitment to quality," added Grillet.

EK 713 departs Dubai every day at 0925hrs, arriving in Lusaka at 1435hrs. The service departs Lusaka at 1620hrs, arriving in Harare at 1720. The return flight leaves Harare at 1850, arriving Lusaka at 1950. It departs Lusaka at 2125 and lands in Dubai at 0640hrs the next day.

Emirates' fleet is one of the youngest in the skies, with an average age of less than 80 months. The airline continuously replaces old aircraft with newer ones and has frequently been the first to sign up for new developments in aviation design and technology.





Govt. secures 2/3 majority

The impeachment motion against Chief Justice Dr. Shirani Bandaranayake was passed with a two-thirds majority in Parliament yesterday–155 for and 49 against. Speaker Chamal Rajapaksa informed President Mahinda Rajapaksa of the ratification of the motion last night itself.

LSSP member Y. G. Padmasiri voted with the government though left party stalwarts D. E. W. Gunasekera and Prof. Tissa Vitharana and Chandrasiri Gajadeera abstained. UPFA National List MP Prof Rajiva Wijesinghe, too, abstained. The UNP and TNA voted against it.

It was the first time in Sri Lanka's Parliamentary history that an impeachment motion was passed against a Chief Justice.

The government members decided to impeach Chief Justice Shirani Bandaranayake on Oct. 30, 2012. Accordingly, an impeachment motion containing 14 charges and signed by 117 government members was handed over to Speaker Chamal Rajapaksa on Nov 1, 2012.

Speaker Rajapaksa appointed a special Parliamentary Select Committee (PSC) under the chairmanship of Environment Minister Anura Priyadarashana Yapa on Nov. 04, 2012. The PSC comprised seven government members and four opposition members.

Chief Justice Shirani Bandaranayake appeared before the PSC on Nov. 23 and Dec. 06. On Dec 06, 2012. She and her lawyers walked out of the PSC protesting against the process and procedure.

On Dec. 07, the Opposition members walked out of the PSC. Yet, the government members investigated the charges and summoned witnesses before the PSC on the same day.

The report of the PSC was presented to Parliament on Dec. 08, 2012 and after the lapse of one month it was taken up for debate on Jan. 10.

The report was debated on Jan. 10 and 11. The DNA members boycotted the debate. Galle District MP Ajith Kumara, elected on the DNA ticket, but an independent in the House, participated in the debate.

When the time arrived for the vote to be taken, the Opposition opposed it on the grounds that the report submitted to the President had not been placed the Order Paper which, it insisted, contained only the impeachment motion proposing that a Parliamentary Select Committee be appointed to investigate 14 charges.

UNP Kandy District MP Lakshman Kiriella, raising a point of order, said that the Order paper for yesterday did not mention anything pertaining to the report to the President.

Leader of the House, Irrigation Minister Nimal Siripala de Silva pointed out that when he proposed to the House on Thursday to commence the debate on the impeachment, he had mentioned that a report for the removal of the incumbent Chief Justice would be presented to the President and that had been duly seconded by Minister Tissa Karaliyadda. Therefore, the point of order raised by the Opposition had no effect and the House could vote, he said.

Members of the government and the Opposition argued over the provisions in the Constitution and the Standing Orders for nearly half an hour. Speaker Chamal Rajapaksa suspending the sittings said that he would announce his decision after ten minutes.

When the House resumed sitting around 7.40 p.m., Speaker Rajapaksa said that the motion had been included in the Order Paper in accordance with the provisions in the Sections 107 (2) and 107 (3) of the Constitution and Section 78 (b) of the Standing Orders. The motion said that a PSC would be appointed to investigate the conduct of Chief Justice Shirani Bandaranayake and if she was found guilty of even a single charge mentioned in the motion, then the House could debate and vote on the report submitted to the President, requesting her removal from office. He moved the House for the vote. Leader of the House Nimal Siripala De Silva asked for a division by name. The Speaker announced the results around 8.00 p.m.

The President is expected to announce the removal of Shirani Bandaranayake from the office of Chief Justice shortly. Parliamentary sources said that an acting chief justice would be appointed by the President to fill the vacancy.





KANDY – A Police party on night patrol, on Thursday (10), arrested a 17-year-old school boy who was nabbed attempting to break in to a computer technology training institution at Peradeniya Road Kandy.

According to police, the suspect was engaged in breaking the locks of the front door of the centre when the police party arrived at the scene during the mid-night inspection.

The year 12 student, of a leading school in Kandy, had arrived at the scene in a car in which there was a can containing petrol. The suspect was not in possession of a driving license, police said.

The detection was made by a team of police personnel led by IP Ranagajeewa Gunasekera of the Kandy police.

Further investigations are being conducted on the directions of senior DIG H. N. B. Ambanwala, senior SP Kithsiri Ganegama and HQI U.B. Palihawadana.





ZILLIONe celebrates 20 year partnership with ERP Accpac

January 11, 2013, 7:20 pm

Celebrating 20 years of successful partnership, the leading Sri Lankan IT Company, ZILLIONe, recently announced the brand change of Sage ERP Accpac to Sage 300 ERP in Asia . Sage is a world leading supplier of business management software solutions, with a range of services for accounting, operations, customer relationship management, human resources, time tracking, merchant services, and the specialized needs of the construction, distribution, manufacturing, non-profit, and real estate industries .Sage has been collaborating with ZILLIONe for the past 20 years in bringing the best solutions for the Sri Lankan businesses.

ZILLIONe has today established over 400 outstanding corporate customer relationships in more than 10 countries over the past 30 years, and is a leading technology based enterprise-wide business applications and systems solutions provider and has been recognized for the unique ability in providing their clientele with a multitude of solutions. The company is a combination of strong in-house solutions, development capability and longstanding partnerships with established global technology brands, supported by a team of determined, committed and passionate set of professionals, who are fully equipped to deliver unparalleled service in the industry. As the only premier solution provider for Sage Accpac in South Asia, ZILLIONe currently offers a variety of solutions across a spectrum of corporate needs including enterprise resource solutions, customer relationship management, systems infrastructure, security solutions, software development, and training among others.

ZILLIONe along with Sage Accpac announced its decision to extend its commitment in the Asian sector with enhanced products, new services, and productivity-enhancing features. With a backing of 20 years of experience and assurance of service in the industry, the company commemorated this occasion, by announcing the new version of it's line, at a recent gala event at the Water's Edge ,which was attended by a large number of their loyal clients from various sectors of industries.

The CEO Thamarajah Suresh of ZILLIONe stated that "the product with its new features would create more efficiency in businesses and the new names will help simplify how the portfolio of ERP systems is presented. The new product line name will be Sage 300 ERP, representing the current Sage ERP Accpac while the Sage ERP X3, its global ERP solution, will retain its name and will not change. Sage ERP Accpac 100 has therefore been rebranded as Sage 300 ERP – Standard while the Sage ERP Accpac 200 was launched as Sage 300 ERP - Advanced, and Sage ERP Accpac 500 as Sage 300 ERP - Premium.

He further elaborated that "All Sage ERP lines are driven by long-term development roadmaps to ensure continued commitment to deliver leading solutions to help make business life easier. Rest assured, the new solution will support configuration options to best match business needs and will deliver the same great capabilities, support, and backup that the corporate clients have known and valued from Sage in the past. Sage 300 ERP is sold and supported through local business partners, and backed by Sage Cover. In the future, Sage 300 ERP will be implementing Sage Advisor technology to ensure more benefits from business investment. Sage 300 ERP grows as the businesses grow by providing versions to support the business growth cycle. We are also proud to note that ZILLIONe has been able to keep up with the many changes that have taken place in terms of technological advancements and continue to deliver solutions to clients that are in keeping with the international trends worldwide."





Lanka Bell enhances bill settlement, re-load network with LB Finance

Lanka Bell's post-paid subscribers will now be able to settle their bills at any one of LB Finance's 120 plus outlets Islandwide, while pre-paid subscribers will be able to enjoy the benefit of re-loading their accounts at any one of these outlets as well, the company said.

The only wholly Sri Lankan owned company in the telecommunications sector, Lanka Bell is the largest CDMA fixed line provider in the country with 1.3 million subscribers. Lanka Bell continues to make substantial investments to take its technology and services to all geographic regions and all segments of the market in Sri Lanka.





South Africa in control as Amla scores century

January 11, 2013, 11:40 pm

Hashim Amla's unbeaten 106 guided South Africa to 325-4 at stumps on day one of the second Test at St. George's Park on Friday after New Zealand made some inroads into the Proteas' batting lineup only to wilt badly in the afternoon.

Amla moved South Africa back into a position of complete strength after Graeme Smith (54) and Jacques Kallis were dismissed in quick succession and AB de Villiers failed to cash in on his half-century.

Amla had partnerships of 92 with Smith, 86 with De Villiers and 102 unbroken with Faf du Plessis (69 not out) to anchor South Africa, which won the first Test by an innings.

Doug Bracewell led the bowlers with 2-70 but New Zealand has to win to avoid a fourth series loss in five.





South Africa players' association: Strike possible

January 11, 2013, 8:24 pm

by Gerald Imray

PORT ELIZABETH, South Africa (AP) — The South African Cricketers' Association raised the possibility on Thursday of taking the world's top-ranked test team out on a "lawful strike" in protest over the makeup of the country's governing board.

On the eve of South Africa's second test against New Zealand in Port Elizabeth, SACA also said that players were opposed to Cricket South Africa's plans to expand to a 16-member board in 18 months' time.

SACA appeared to have the support of leading South Africa internationals in its stance against a 16-member board and said that its position on that came after a discussion "amongst the Proteas squad in Port Elizabeth."

SACA chief executive Tony Irish said later Thursday there would likely be no imminent strike action, telling The Associated Press that a reduced 12-member board set to come into effect in February after CSA's annual general meeting was "acceptable."

But without the promised reorganizing from 22 to 12 directors by CSA next month, SACA "would be in a position to take the players out on a lawful strike over this issue," the players' body said in a statement.

"It's not perfect," Irish said of the 12-man board, "but we've also got to be responsible."

However, CSA's indication that it would then move to 16 directors in 2014 — after being roundly criticized for its ineffective governance through the current 22-member board — would be a problem for players, SACA said. SACA had "serious concerns" over the increase to 16 directors, it said.

"SACA and the players are not happy ... with the indication given that CSA will increase the board to 16 directors in the future. We don't think there are good reasons for this," Irish said in SACA's statement. "Should this actually happen it is likely to again become an issue for SACA and the players."

The South African national cricket body announced Wednesday that its board will be increased to 16 next year.

That would be "closer to the existing structure, which we all know has been a problem," SACA said in response.

CSA's immediate commitment to move to a 12-member board had led SACA to withdraw an initial protest against its own national body, which has been in turmoil since former chief executive Gerald Majola was implicated in a bonus scandal and eventually fired last year for his role in paying himself and other staff unauthorized amounts in 2009 and then trying to hide them.

The CSA board was also heavily criticized in an independent judicial report for, among other things, failing to deal effectively with Majola and for losing sight of its mandate to develop grass-roots cricket in South Africa and, in particular, to bring more black cricketers through the ranks.

"We have a world class national team and the players expect world class governance in the game," Irish said.





Dominik Utzinger to coach Sri Lanka Davis Cup team

January 11, 2013, 11:38 pm

By Revata S. Silva

Former ATP and Davis Cup player for Switzerland, Dominik Utzinger, 49, will visit Sri Lanka next week to train this year's Sri Lanka Davis Cup team for the February 1-3 Asia-Oceania Zone Group-II Round 1 tie against fancied Pakistan, to be staged in Colombo, the Sri Lanka Tennis Association source revealed on Thursday, January 10.

Utzinger, one time 280th ranked in the world, has coached the Sri Lanka team for the Davis Cup at least on two occasions earlier between 2006-10.

He has been the head coach of the Asian Tennis Academy in Bangkok, Thailand where Sri Lanka's leading player Harshana Godamanna underwent extensive fulltime training while taking part in ITF Futures events. During that time Godamanna earned a below 1,000 ATP world rank, a rare feat by a Sri Lankan.

One of the top Swiss Singles and Doubles players during the 1980s –he was an Australian Open Mixed Doubles semi-finalist in 1986 partnering Jolissain— Dominik has later coached world No.1 Roger Federer, the legendary Swiss player, when Federer was a junior at "Old Boys," a tennis club situated in Basel, Switzerland.





Prolific Michu lighting up Premier League

LONDON (AP) — When Swansea announced the signing of Miguel Perez Cuesta from Spanish struggler Rayo Vallecano in July last year, it barely caused a ripple in English football.

At 2 million pounds ($3.2 million), many will have presumed that Michu — as he is better known — was simply another journeyman foreigner soon to be swallowed up in the world's richest league.

Manchester United manager Alex Ferguson had never heard of him. He wasn't on the radar of Arsenal's scouting network either. Other clubs deliberated about signing him but eventually declined.

What an oversight.

The lanky forward is now established as one of the Premier League's most lethal finishers, scoring 16 goals in all competitions this season, and is in line for a call-up by world and European Spain for the Feb. 6 friendly against Uruguay.

Michu is being spoken of in the same breath as Robin van Persie, Luis Suarez and Sergio Aguero and, unsurprisingly, is being linked to a move to one of Europe's top teams in the offseason. He won't be easy to prise away, though.

"We all know the situation, the economic situation in the world, so there really aren't that many clubs who can buy him," Swansea manager Michael Laudrup said. "There are some here (in England); in Spain, there are only two (Barcelona and Real Madrid). Italy? I don't think so. They're trying to sell. Bayern Munich in Germany ... so only a few, few clubs."

Considering Michu was a sensation in Spanish football last season, scoring 15 goals to help Rayo avoid relegation on the last day of the season, the continent's powers missed an absolute bargain to highlight glaring blind spots within their scouting departments.

"It hurts me to hear Arsene Wenger say that nobody here had heard of Michu," Guillem Balague, a Spanish football expert with Sky Sports, told The Associated Press. "It is a failure in the scouting system in England that nobody could see his potential.

"It's something for these clubs to analyze, that somebody who cost €2.5 million cannot be worth it for their team. There are players like that in Spain now — they should sharpen their views."

Goal-scoring midfielders are always godsends, and Michu is proving he is up there with the best. He has the cool finishing ability of a striker despite never having played in the position on a regular basis.

Laudrup, though, has pushed him further upfield and Michu is now Swansea's main forward as the unheralded Welsh team continues to impress in the Premier League while closing in on a place in the League Cup final. On Wednesday, the Swans won 2-0 at Chelsea in the first leg of the semifinals — and yes, Michu scored.

"He is a coach that has given me a lot of freedom and that is important," Michu recently said of Laudrup, arguably Denmark's greatest ever player. "Sometimes he plays during practice and you are amazed, he still sees passes where no one else does.

"I am still learning."

Michu started out playing for home-town club Real Oviedo in 2006-07 and then spent four years in Spain's second division with Celta Vigo. Rayo had him for just one season, before the economic problems engulfing Spanish football forced the club to sell its most precious asset at a knockdown fee.

"I would never expect a new player to come in and score so many goals, but I can't say what expectation I had for Michu," said Laudrup, who knew Spanish football well from his time as coach of Getafe and Mallorca. "What he is doing, in terms of goals, is incredible — particularly when you think he's never been a No. 9."

Swansea has been a haven for Spanish players for the past five years, ever since Spaniard Roberto Martinez joined as manager and attempted to implement a playing style similar to that of mighty Barcelona.

Martinez plucked Angel Rangel, Andrea Orlandi and Guillem Bauza from the Spanish lower leagues — they were quickly labeled the "Three Amigos" — and three more Iberians joined in Jordi Gomez, Gorka Pintado and Albert Serran.

Laudrup has followed the same path, bringing in not just Michu but center back Chico Flores and winger Pablo Hernandez from Spain.

"It is a very humble club, like Rayo," said Michu, who chipped in to buy of Real Oviedo shares when the club was on the brink of bankruptcy. "We train at the city sports center and change with people from the street that are going to the pool, for example.

"Perhaps we don't have a lot of luxuries and the facilities are not the best, but all of us are rowing in the same direction and we are one big family."

Laudrup doesn't expect to lose Michu in the January transfer window but knows anything is possible in the offseason.

"He's happy where he is, so I'm really not afraid because I'm so sure he will stay with us for the next five or six months," Laudrup said. "I don't know how much he is worth. Ask my chairman.













SLIM Bucks MBA Alumni launches membership directory, website

January 11, 2013, 9:00 pm

SLIM Bucks MBA Alumni recently launched its Membership Directory and official Website at the Hilton Colombo Residencies. The Chief Guest of the event was Prof K.U Kamalgoda who is the Chairman - Board of Study of the Sri Lanka Institute of Marketing (SLIM) and also former Managing Director / CEO of State Pharmaceuticals Cooperation. The Guest of Honor for the Event was Prasanna Perera, a leading business consultant and a Senior MBA Lecturer of the Buckinghamshire MBA programme.

President – SLIM Bucks MBA Alumni, Pradeep Edward said the objectives set for the first year of the Alumni were successfully achieved with the completion of these two projects. He thanked the respective Project Chairs, Ms. Thilanka Chethiyawardena, Membership Development, and Ms. Madhurangi Abeygunasekera, General Secretary, SLIM Bucks MBA Alumni for their untiring efforts and valuable contributions.

Prof. K. U. Kamalgoda shared his thoughts on how the learning of an MBA would add value to an individual and what makes a truly responsible Corporate Executive in the context of today's fast moving business world. His insights were elaborated by Prasanna Perera, who is also a mentor for Bucks MBA students and the Alumni.

Tilan Wijesekera, the President of Sri Lanka Institute of Marketing, congratulated the current Executive Committee for bringing the Alumni to a greater height just within a year and appreciated the efforts of the members for carrying out five projects within such a short period which adds greater value to the Bucks MBA Brand and Sri Lanka Institute of Marketing.

SLIM Bucks MBA Alumni constitutes of MBA holders of Buckinghamshire New University of the United Kingdom, the course conducted in collaboration with Sri Lanka Institute of Marketing (SLIM). The MBA programme, best known as Bucks MBA, started 03 years ago in Sri Lanka and produced more than 100 MBA graduates within this short period and it keeps growing annually.





Delhi gang rape posers

January 11, 2013, 8:06 pm

The brutal details revealed about the gang rape of a paramedical student by six drunks on Dec. 16 are simply unbelievable. The impunity shown and the high-handed manner in which it was done in a crowded city make it so. The agony caused is such that the victim is merely identified as 'Daughter of India' and not by name as a show of respect for the bereaved family - perhaps an unprecedented decision anywhere.

This incident has led to widespread mass protests, especially in New Delhi, and the Indian government was galvanized into unaccustomed action. Policemen who 'crowd controlled' in the manner known and some others have been interdicted, according to reports. Also the protesters are agitating for the death sentence for rape, claiming that the life sentence is too lenient.

Your editorial 'India's moment of truth' of December 31, cites other details that are equally disgusting, as the rapists' felony; or even more so given the fact they are legally protected. This refers to political party leaders 'who shed copious tears for the victims'. A report by the National Election Watch and the Association for Democratic Reforms is quoted: About 260 candidates have been fielded for Assembly elections by all major parties; six have admitted that they have been charged for rape at some time and 34 owned up they have faced charges for various crimes against women. This citing is equally relevant to our own situation which you describe in the para following:

'In this country, too, perpetrators of violence against women are going places in politics, as is public knowledge.' You proceed to name names (instead of vaguely generalising) from JRJ's period in the late 1970s up to the present, listing their major exploits and patrons. This is a courageous and damning assessment of things as in the Indian case and is to be hoped it will receive some meaningful action instead of allowing it to drift as up to now; and reminding the public of the saying '...the caravan will move on'. The ordinary people, especially those who might have fallen victim, deserve something better.





SSC, Ragama clash for Premier Limited Overs title

January 11, 2013, 11:39 pm

SSC who beat NCC in the semi final will look forward to continue their dominance in the tournament, when they meet strong Ragama CC in the final of the Premier Limited-overs Tournament which will get under way this morning at Maitland Crescent.

SSC who recorded six victories in nine matches had wicketkeeper batsman Kaushal Silva and skipper Thilina Kandamby as their key players and they are likely to hold the key for SSC.

Ragama CC, meanwhile won seven out of nine matches. When these two teams met during the group stage, Ragama CC recorded a 4-run win.





Having identified the need for a specific feminine wash for daily use in the Sri Lankan market, George Steuart Health (Pvt) Ltd recently launched an Intimate Wash branded 'pH Care' for everyday use. 'pH Care' is manufactured by GS Health's principals United Laboratories Inc., Philippines which is the largest pharmaceutical manufacturer in the Philippines with a strong presence in the personal care market.

According to Sanjiva Wijesekera, Executive Director, George Steuart Health (Pvt) Ltd, "pH Care is a feminine personal hygiene product registered with the Cosmetics, Devices & Drugs Authority (CDDA) of the Ministry of Health, Sri Lanka. Being a product of international repute, 'pH Care' goes through stringent quality controls and is clinically formulated with the ideal pH 5 value that matches the normal pH of a woman's external genitalia and thus maintains the normal flora."

Nirosh Perera, Senior Manager, George Steuart Health (Pvt) Ltd pointed out that 'pH Care' gives the right kind of clean of the delicate female genital area without any irritation whatsoever. "pH Care contains dual hydrating moisturizers: D-Panthenol and Glycerin which moisturizes the genital area and thus prevents dryness. 'pH Care' is a unique product which contains mild and non-soap cleansing agents which prevents dryness and irritation. It also has Chamomile extract and Alpha Bisabolol that soothes skin and also prevents unpleasant odours."

Wijesekera further emphasized the importance of maintaining personal hygiene in women and was very optimistic that Sri Lankan women would realise the benefits of 'pH Care' and make it a habit to use the product as a daily cleaning agent which would eventually bring out the confidence within.'pH Care' is a viscous liquid where just a drop is enough for each wash and is very safe to use on a daily basis at regular intervals. 'pH Care' is supplied in three pleasant fragrances; Pink Passion, Shower Fresh and Summer Blossom in 150ml packs and is available at all leading pharmacies and supermarkets.





MTI announces Tea Strategy Forum

January 11, 2013, 8:50 pm

In keeping with MTI's thought leadership efforts to focus on industries critical to the Sri Lankan economy, MTI has announced that the Tea Strategy Forum to be held on Wed. 23rd January 2013 at the Hilton Residencies Colombo (from 5.30 pm onwards).

Chairperson of Sri Lanka Tea Board Ms. Janaki Kuruppu will be delivering the keynote at the MTI Tea Strategy Forum, which is expected to be attended tea industry professionals and those with an interest in the strategic development of the tea industry. The forum will be based on MTI's Tea Industry Value Chain Model comprising 7 modules i.e. Consume, Retail, Channel, Develop, Trade, Produce and Grow.

MTI, through their main presentation on the Outside-in perspective of the industry will highlight the key challenges at each stage of the 7 module value chain. This will be supported by a panel comprising industry experts from each of the 7 value chain modules. Kumar Jayasuriya, Chairman of Finlays PLC will be one of the Panelists and expected to share his opinions covering many parts of the tea value chain.





Did the Saudi Judges Act According to Islamic Law?

The Rizana Nafeek case

Homicide and Bodily harm fall within the Koranic doctrine of Qisas. Homicide, according to the Islamic Shari'a falls into five categories as follows:

Qatl amd – Intentional homicide

Shibh amd – quasi-intentional killing

Qatl khata' – accidental homicide

Majra' al khata'- Is similar to accidental homicide, but different in nature to Qatl Khata'

Qatl bi sabab – indirect killing.

The above five categories are graded on a scale of intentionality. Cambridge University Prof. Wael Hallaq states that "the degree of intentionality involved is measured by external criteria, as the jurists deemed knowledge of inner motives (ma fil-batin) to be well nigh impossible".

This to me is the same as establishing mens rhea in common law courts when determining guilt in criminal cases. It would therefore appear that there is some similarity between the standards of proof required under common law and that under the Shari'a. In fact the standard of proof under the Shari'a is much more stringent than that required under common law principles.

Before discussing Rizana Rafeek's case as presented to us and without making any value judgements on the Saudi legal system let us see what the five categories of homicide define.

Qatl amd – Intentional Killing

This type of killing involves not only the intent to kill but also the use of a lethal weapon that is customarily used to kill. Furthermore, it must be committed by the murderer without any coercion. This is an integral element of intentionality. Anyone who kills someone under pressure from another person would not be liable to the death penalty.

According to reports Rizana did not use any lethal weapon. Whether she killed the child intentionally is another matter and there is no evidence of any coercion. By definition the alleged offence does not fall under this category.

Prof. Hallaq explains that "liability for punishment (in this case) is inextinguishable, giving the kin of the victim an eternal right to inflict appropriate retaliation or collect damages.

Shibh amd – Quasi intentional Killing

In this type of killing the element of intention to exercise violence is present but the instrument used is neither regarded as lethal nor customarily construed as a murder weapon. For example a small stick. The followers of Imam Shafi'i and Imam Hanbali hold the view that repeated beating with a stick causing the death of a person would amount to committing the act with full intent, as against causing death by striking once or twice. Similarly if someone playfully pushes another into waters infested with crocodiles without knowing the presence of those reptiles can be accused of committing a "quasi intentional" killing although it was done without any malicious intentions.

As stated in the previous paragraph, newspaper and other reports do not indicate that the accused used any kind of weapon, neither is there any suggestion to assume otherwise. Therefore, it would appear, that Rizana's case does not come under this heading either.

There is no capital punishment amounting to beheading in under this category. However, compensation under this group of killing amounts to extensive blood money, unless the accused is pardoned by the victim's family.

Khatl khata' – Accidental Homicide

This is a pure accidental event such as accidentally shooting someone, while hunting game.

If the reports are correct (and if the child had actually died in the hands of Rizana), then what actually happened is accidental death. We are told that the child had choked while being fed and the maid Razana only "stroked" the child's throat to relieve it from choking. What resulted was unbelievable. If this was the case then it is accidental death coming under this category. There is no capital punishment of beheading in this instance and the damages are also very little.

Majra al-khata – Similar to Accidental Homicide

This happens when someone accidentally trips on someone or something and falls on another person killing him or her. Or when someone while being asleep rolls over someone or falls from a bed on someone asleep below resulting in the other person's death. There is no death sentence for this offence and the damages are far less than in the case of other categories.

This will not be applicable to Razana's case.

Qat bi sabab – Indirect Killing

These are very rare incidences such as when someone is digging a well and that he did not provide any safety barriers causing someone to fall and be killed. This is also not an offence punishable by beheading and as in the case of the previous two offences the damages are also minimal.

This will also not be applicable to Rizana's case

On analysis it would appear that the girl Razana Nafeek's case falls under the category of Khatl khata' – Accidental Homicide. I am basing assumption only on hearsay evidence. If that is the case it would appear that the Saudi Judges have erred in sentencing her to be beheaded. ALLAH KNOWS BEST.

The question has been raised as to why the girl was kept for nearly two years in custody if she was actually guilty. It has been revealed by a Human Rights Group that the girl was kept in custody following an appeal. At the same time that the girl was a minor of 17 years at the time she committed the alleged offence will not hold good because she was an accomplice for falsifying her age by Employment Agents. These defences must fail.

Homicide under the Islamic Shari'a is a private wrong. Prosecution takes place only upon the demand of the victim's next of kin. Minors and the insane are exempt from punishment. Nonetheless, their next of kin become liable for financial damages. It appears from all the reports that I have read, the fact that the baby died "at the hands" of the maid, thus establishing actus rheus. According to reports the cause of death was attributed to choking and the maid had only tried to relieve the baby by "stroking" the neck. A likely story some might say, but there is certainly a degree of doubt. In my humble view, the benefit of the doubt should certainly have been given to the girl Razana. The fact that the mother of the victim had very strongly initiated the prosecution should not have prevented the Saudi government from appealing for clemency. Also did the Sri Lankan Embassy in Saudi Arabia do enough to challenge the Arabic interpretation of Razana Nafeek's alleged confession? Apparently, the statements made by Razaa, who did not know Arabic, was translated by a Malayalee translator. There is no evidence that anybody had challenged that translation.

Therefore, it appears that mistakes had been done by both sides. If Saudi Arabia followed the law of that country in beheading Razana Nafeek, it is their law and should not be compared with the Islamic Shari'a





England beat India by nine runs

January 11, 2013, 11:40 pm

England started life under Ashley Giles with a first one-day win in India since 2006, edging a thrilling series opener in Rajkot by nine runs yesterday.

New limited-overs coach Giles saw his side end a run of 13 matches without a win in the country in some style, posting a formidable 325 for four and then showing the nerve to withstand a bold chase that eventually subsided to 316 for nine.





Mervyn quits as SLFP Kelaniya organiser

January 11, 2013, 11:31 pm

Following the arrest of five persons, including three aides to Public Relations Minister Mervyn Silva, in connection with last week's murder of Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha member Hasitha Madawela, the minister resigned as the chief organizer of the Kelaniya electorate. The government information department yesterday evening said that President Mahinda Rajapaksa accepted the minister's resignation.

The police, investigating Madawela's killing, raided the main SLFP political office and an adjoining house in the Kelaniya electorate, where they found one hand grenade and two swords.

Minister Silva was present in parliament yesterday during the debate on the impeachment of Chief Justice Dr. Shirani Bandaranayake.





Tension prevails along Indo-Pak border

January 11, 2013, 10:53 pm

BY S VENKAT NARAYAN Our Special Correspondent

NEW DELHI, January 11: Tension prevailed on Friday along the India-Pakistan border in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K), where the Indian Army is on alert after repeated ceasefire violations by Pakistani troops.

"The borderline with Pakistan is tense. But the situation is under control (along Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir)", an Army official said in Jammu on Friday.

The level of tension has increased after Pakistani troops violated ceasefire continuously and also closed the gates for cross-LoC trade on Thursday.

In a related development, Pakistan's Foreign Office on Friday called in Indian High Commissioner in Islamabad Sharat Sabharwal to lodge a protest over the death of a Pakistani soldier in an incident of firing along the Line of Control (LoC), which has witnessed a string of clashes since the weekend.

Reporting from Islamabad, the Press Trust of India (PTI) quoted officials in the Pakistan Foreign Office as saying that Sabharwal was served a démarche by Foreign Secretary Jalil Abbas Jilani over Thursday's incident in Battal sector of the LoC, which the Pakistan Army said had resulted in the death of a soldier.

There have been three ceasefire violations along the LoC in the past five days. The Indian Army said two of its soldiers were killed in a cross-border raid by Pakistani troops on Tuesday while another Pakistani soldier died on Sunday.

The clashes were among the most serious violations of the truce that was put in place in late 2003. Pakistan's Foreign Office had earlier called in Indian Deputy High Commissioner Gopal Baglay on January 7 to protest the incident that occurred a day earlier.

The External Affairs Ministry had summoned Pakistan High Commissioner Salman Bashir earlier this week to protest the killing of the two Indian soldiers.

An official in Jammu said the Indian Army is maintaining utmost vigilance along the borderline with Pakistan. Troops have been asked to remain alert round-the-clock.

"There was no ceasefire violation along Indo-Pak border this morning," Defence spokesman Col RK Palta said. However, Pakistan troops had violated ceasefire and fired mortars shells and small arms on Indian posts along LoC in Krishnagati sector of Poonch district from 5 pm to 9.30 pm on Thursday, the spokesman said.

Indian troops guarding the borderline effectively retaliated, resulting in exchanges. However, there was no casualty or injury to any one in the firing on the Indian side. Pakistani troops had fired at nine posts — Chatri, Atma, Helmet, Prakash, Chatyal, Khera-I, Khera-II, Roshni and Gunhill posts in the sector from its posts Kanal, Barmoch, Jungle-1, Jungle-2, Dhamas, Prench, New post, Daruchiymia, Teer, LP-1, LP-2 and LP-3, Col Palta said.





Napoli, 7 points back, still has sights on title

January 11, 2013, 8:25 pm

by Andrew Dampf

ROME (AP) — If the first matches after the holiday break were any indication, Napoli will be Juventus' top challenger in the second half of the Serie A season.

Edinson Cavani scored a hat trick in Napoli's 4-1 win over Roma last weekend to move the southern club within seven points of the Italian league leaders, who were beaten 2-1 at home by 10-man Sampdoria.

This weekend, Napoli stays at home to face Palermo, which is in the relegation zone, while Juventus visits eighth-place Parma.

Juventus leads Lazio by five points and third-place Napoli by seven. Inter Milan and Fiorentina are each nine points behind.

Napoli would be tied with Lazio if not for a two-point penalty it received for match-fixing after its former goalkeeper confessed to arranging the result of a game three seasons ago.

Napoli is hoping to get back at least one of those points in appeal.

"This is a great group and it's never satisfied, so we're going to try and win every match," Napoli coach Walter Mazzarri said. "We're taking it day by day then we'll see what happens at the end."

Against Roma, Cavani scored first with his right foot, then with his left before also connecting on a header. The Uruguay striker has 16 goals this season, two more than Stephen El Shaarawy of AC Milan to top the league scoring chart.

For his performance, Cavani was voted atop this week's AP Global Football rankings.

While Cavani has been on form all season, Napoli is still looking to replace Ezequiel Lavezzi, who transferred to Paris Saint-Germain before this season.

Mario Balotelli, who continues to clash with Roberto Mancini at Manchester City, could be an option.

Napoli attempted to sign Balotelli when he left Inter three years ago. Mazzarri met the Italy forward then.

"He made a good impression, although only those people that see him every day can know what kind of problems he can create," Mazzarri said. "But I've got a decent amount of experience and it would be stimulating to coach him."

Previously with Sampdoria, Mazzarri played an important role in resurrecting the career of another troubled Italy forward, Antonio Cassano.

"If you want to reach a certain level, the more quality players you have in attack the better off you are," Mazzarri said.

However, Mazzarri's contract is up at the end of this season, and he has indicated he would like to take a sabbatical after struggling with heart problems and stress recently.

As for Juventus, a 2-1 extra-time win over AC Milan in the Italian Cup quarterfinals Wednesday provided relief after the loss to Sampdoria.

"It was a great response from everyone, a really strong response," Juventus coach Antonio Conte said. "A loss like that should never happen again. We did well to move on, even though we were playing against Milan."

Juventus goalkeeper Gianluigi Buffon was rested against Milan after taking responsibility for Samp's first goal. He should return at Parma, where he began his career.

Meanwhile, Lazio is also in form, having beat Cagliari 2-1 last weekend and Catania 3-0 Tuesday to also reach the semifinals in the cup competition. The Roman club now hosts Atalanta.

Also this weekend, Inter faces a Pescara squad that just became the first team to win at Fiorentina this season, and Fiorentina visits Udinese, which shut out Inter 3-0 last weekend.

Inter has problems in defense with Andrea Ranocchia and Juan Jesus each suspended, plus Walter Samuel hurting with an Achilles tendon problem. Midfielder Esteban Cambiasso could be used in defense again.

Milan, 14 points behind in seventh, visits Sampdoria, which has been touting the talents of Mauro Icardi, the 19-year-old Argentina striker who scored twice against Juventus.





Adahana of Sri Sudarmawansa Nayaka Thero today

January 11, 2013, 10:55 pm

Adahana of Sri Sudarmawansa Nayaka Thero of Thumbagoda Sri Sudarshanarama Mahawihara will take place today (Jan. 12) in Balangoda. The Adahana Perahara is scheduled to leave at 1:30pm from Thumbagoda temple on Saturday.





One-to-One with top biz delegation from India

January 11, 2013, 8:51 pm

A Business Delegation from Kolhapur, India, facilitated through NKAR Travels & Tours (Pvt) Ltd will visit Colombo in January, 2013.

The Ceylon Chamber of Commerce, 50, Navam Mawatha, Colombo 2 will organise one to one business meetings with the Delegates on the 24TH of January 2013 at the Chamber. The Delegates represent the industries of Construction, Engineering, Tiles, Machinery and Metal Industry.





Tom Cruise says making movies is still fun

SEOUL, South Korea (AP) — Even though he's been a Hollywood star for three decades, Tom Cruise says he still has fun making movies.

Cruise was in Seoul on Thursday to promote "Jack Reacher," a thriller adapting Lee Child's novel "One Shot," part of the best-selling series about a mysterious ex-military investigator.

Appearing at a news conference with director Christopher McQuarrie and co-star Rosamund Pike, Cruise said, "It was so much fun making the film."

He said the wit of the movie and the charm of his character were elements that made the film fun.

Pike, who played James Bond girl Miranda Frost in "Die Another Day" in 2002, said she and Cruise enjoyed good on-screen chemistry — something she said she "never thought" she'd say.

"You can even like a guy very much, like an actor very much, and there isn't any chemistry," she said but added, "It was a great relationship to play. It was a lot of fun."

Cruise was making his fifth trip to South Korea and received honorary citizenship in the city of Busan on Thursday evening. "Jack Reacher" opens in South Korea next Thursday. The 50-year-old actor was in Tokyo on Wednesday for the film's Japan premiere.





(All one's sins from birth will be no more, if once one worships at Kelaniya)

This Sinhala adage among Buddhists is an indication of the sanctity of Kelaniya, where tradition holds was blessed by a visit of the Buddha. It is the hope of all Buddhists in this country to come in pilgrimage to the Kelaniya Raja Maha Vihara at least once in a lifetime. The presence of the Raja Maha Vihara gives Kelaniya a very special place of honour and respect in the minds of the vast majority of Sinhalese Buddhists in this country. It is a respect that is shared by most others who live in this country, too.

But events in recent years show that this belief in the power of the Kelaniya Vihara to forgive or erase the sins of an entire life is being taken all too literally, by one who shows all signs of transforming Kelaniya into the Crime Capital of Sri Lanka, just as all those rapists there labeled New Delhi as the Rape Capital of the World.

Crime has been racing ahead in Kelaniya with the patronage of ugly politics, fast turning the Kelaniya electorate, and much of the Gampaha district where it is situated, into a nerve centre of crime, that has for long made asses of those responsible for and engaged in law enforcement.

Kelaniya is today the domain of Merv the Nerve, who is taking chapters off the Italian and New York Mafia and rapidly erasing the sanctity of the place by turning it into the Cosa Kelaniya, like the Cosa Nostra of the Italian mafia. Merv the Nerve is fast seeking the position, if not already achieved of the "Godfather" of Kelaniya crime. It is this Nerve that seems to matter today in all the affairs of Kelaniya — from the right to engage in business, to decide what one sells in one's own shop, the ethnicity of those allowed to trade in the area, the order to grow one's own food whether one has the land for such growing or not, imposing a ban on the sale of meat and liquor, far in excess of what is required by law, and very importantly the deciding on the colour of politics of the people of Kelaniya.

The Sacred City and the wider region of Kelaniya is more like the hunting ground of a Sri Lankan Al Capone - who makes fun of tying public servants to trees as punishment, and has a special dislike of the media and those working for it. The range of Nerve related crime in Costa Kelaniya reportedly extends from protection racketeering to the issuance of licenses and control of local government.

At a time when there is much debate about the sovereignty of parliament and related matters involving the powers of the Judiciary and Legislature, there is a new sovereignty emerging in Kelaniya. It is the sovereignty of Merv the Nerve over the territory of Kelaniya and its extended surrounds. It is a new territorial sovereignty that is marked by racketeering of every sort, in every town and village in the area of control of this Godfather of a Sinhala striped mafia. It is a Godfather who claims descent of from Dutugemunu. This much vaunted ancestry of the Nerve is used not for the unity of the county, but for the spread of crime in a territory to the extent that its name for sanctity is being replaced by that of sin and evil.

It now appears that the adage of the erasing of the sins of a lifetime with a single worship at Kelaniya is being abused, whether knowingly or not, by the Nerve who now runs its crime syndicate. The Nerve seems to be thinking that if he turns towards the Kelaniya Shrine and worships it each time a crime is planned and executed, the sin will be erased. Such erasing of a sin of crime is not to give him a liking to be righteous and good, but to strengthen him to carry out more crime and have each one of them erased by worship of the shrine, for still more crimes to follow.

As one who has studied these Cosa Kelaniya activities of Merv the Nerve explained it, what is now being shown is a belief in "Karana, karanaa saama pavakata, vandimu sema vita Kelaniyey" - For every crime one commits, keep on the worship of Kelaniya".

Kelaniya needs to be restored to its real sanctity that came with the visit of the Buddha. Kelaniya needs to be rid the attempts to make it the "Aparadha Aganuvara" or Crime Capital of Sri Lanka. The sovereignty of the Nerve in his new territory of crime needs to be defeated, and the sovereignty of the people restored, just as terror in the North & East was wiped out.

The sanctity of Kelaniya must not be defiled by the crime and corruption of the Nerve, who is an imposter to the sovereignty of the people. Let us bring back the full meaning of that delightful and venerable adage: "Upan da sita karapu pavu netha, Varak vandoth Kelaniyey"





India offers over 180 higher Edu. schols

January 11, 2013, 11:08 pm

The Indian government has offered over 180 higher education scholarships to Sri Lanka. The Indian High Commission yesterday announced that the Government of India would select meritorious Lankan nationals for the award of the scholarships. The selection of would be done in consultation with Sri Lanka's Ministry of Higher Education. The scholarships are for those who wish to pursue undergraduate, postgraduate and PhD Degrees in some of the leading universities in India, the HC said.

All scholarships cover full tuition fees for the entire duration of the course, in addition to a monthly sustenance allowance. The scholarship also covers accommodation allowance and an annual grant for books, stationary. Besides, all ICCR scholars in India are provided full healthcare facilities, air fare to the nearest destination in India and an annual grant for educational tours to various parts of the country, apart from several other auxiliary benefits.

The Ministry of Higher Education has invited applications from eligible candidates. The last date for submission of duly filled up application forms for Undergraduate courses is Feb 10, 2013 and for Postgraduate/PhD courses Feb 20, 2012

The Application forms can be downloaded from the website of Ministry of Higher Education at www.mohe.gov.lk. Interested candidates can also visit the website of High Commission of India for further details on the scholarships.

* Maulana Azad Scholarship Scheme: Fifty (50) scholarships for Masters Degrees courses including Engineering, Science, Economics, Commerce, Humanities and Arts. However, preference would be given to the fields of Engineering, Science and Agriculture. Medicine subject is not included in this scheme.

* Rajiv Gandhi Scholarship Scheme: Twenty five (25) slots for Undergraduate courses in the field of 'Information Technology' leading to a B.E or B.Tech Degree.

* IOR-ARC Scholarship: Two (02) slots for Masters Degree in all disciplines including indigenous medicine. MBBS/Medicine is not included in this scheme.









CP told DEW to abstain

January 11, 2013, 11:33 pm

Senior Minister D. E. W. Gunasekera told Parliament yesterday that he had been instructed by his Party, the Communist Party, to refrain from voting on the impeachment motion against Chef Justice Dr. Shrani Bandaranayake.

"My party has instructed me to refrain from voting on this Motion, in keeping with the political position taken by my predecessor Sarath Muttettuwegama, on a similar impeachment in 1984," Minister Gunasekera said.

Speaking during the debate on the impeachment motion, the Minister said that the members of the House were entitled to their constitutional right to move a resolution for an impeachment. "If the party concerned is proved guilty, he or she should step down or be removed. This is unquestionable."

However, he said that as representative of the people, in the legislature being supreme, they should act fairly, judicially, ethically, constitutionally, and legally setting an example to the other two organs of the State.

Full text of Minister Gunasekera's speech: "Since the enactment of the JR Constitution of 1978, this House had to face four impeachments against chief justices namely Neville Samarakoon, Sarath N. Silva and presently Dr Shirani Bandaranayke. This House is also aware of an impeachment against President Premadasa which ended up in abortion – quite mysteriously.

In this background, I wish to explain my position with regard to the current impeachment under discussion based on the following material facts.

Firstly, the constitutional position. Much has been said on the floor of this House, in the media, in different courts of law and even in the streets. I do not propose to exhaust you with my comments and observations on these arguments and counterarguments.

The simple unchallengeable fact is that the Constitution, in terms of Article 107 (2), provides for an impeachment in respect of judges of the Supreme Court and Court of Appeal. In terms of Article 107 (3), Parliament is required to provide for a process for such an impeachment which should include a procedure in respect of investigation and proof of the alleged misbehavior or incapacity and also the right of such judge to defend.

Specifically, in terms of Article 107 (3), Parliament is called upon to enact a law or standing order. But, as you all know, until 1984, this Parliament failed to enact a Standing Order, until the need arose in the case of impeachment against Neville Samarakoon. As yet, though 35 long years have lapsed, this Parliament has failed to enact a law with regard to process or procedure.

Neither this House, nor the judiciary nor the legal fraternity, including the Bar Council nor the Attorney General's Department nor the Ministry of Justice nor the Executive, for that matter, realized the need for an enactment of law in respect of such a process or procedure. This failure led us to this impasse, crisis and confrontation.

Touching upon the Standing Order 78 A, currently under debate, I should remind this House that even that Standing Order 78 A was introduced to this House in a mighty hurry within a matter of 24 hours, according to authoritative sources.

In that Standing Order 78 A, it should be admitted that there was neither a process nor a procedure as required by Article 107 (3) – the whole question of unconstitutionality arose from this glaring inadequacy.

As I said, this controversy first arose in the case of the Neville Samarakoon impeachment – this is lucidly and clearly illustrated in the separate report submitted jointly by the then official opposition led by Anura Bandaranayake, comprising Dinesh Gunawardena and Sarath Muttettuwegama, who served in that Select Committee.

In that report they touched upon both the constitutional aspect regarding the judicial power and the need for an amendment to the Standing Order containing a process and a procedure.

I quote from the report of 1984: "We would urge that HE the President could refer this matter to the Supreme Court for an authoritative opinion thereon under Article 139 (1) of the Constitution. The signatories to this statement feel strongly that the procedure that Parliament finally adopts should be drafted along the lines of the Indian provisions where the process of inquiry which precedes the resolution for the removal of a Supreme Court judge should be conducted by judges chosen by the Speaker from a panel appointed for this purpose. We, therefore, urge this House to amend Standing Order 78A accordingly."

This recommendation was ignored by the then UNP Government perhaps simply because it originated from the official opposition.

This request had not been considered by this House and by all the Administrations even though almost 29 long years have lapsed since the last impeachment.

This lacuna could have been easily remedied by the House within 24 hours through the strengthening of the Standing Order 78 A.

Tissa Vitarana, Vasudeva Nanayakkara and myself addressed this issue in writing immediately after the appointment of the select committee in respect of the Shirani Bandaranayake impeachment. We addressed it to all those who are concerned. Had there been a positive response, there would have been no conflict, and there would have been a smoother operation of this impeachment process. Even and enactment of a law was not a complicated process.

Secondly, in the absence of such a laid down process and procedure, in my view, the accused party would not be satisfied that the inquiry was conducted fairly, orderly, judicially, and ethically. Chief Justice Neville Samarakoon's first reaction to 78A was that he would not attend the inquiry. On second thoughts, he came along with his defence counsel Mr. S. Nadesan.

Thirdly, since the inception of the impeachment resolution, the whole issue was completely politicized. The issue was taken to the streets. Our attempts to intervene to avert such a development were in vain.

The official opposition failed in its duty to avert such a situation on the contrary, they subscribed and contributed to those negative developments. Their withdrawal from the select committee is incomprehensible. They should have remained there and produced a separate report on their own, if they disagreed or were not satisfied with the conduct of the inquiry. Naturally, the media reaped a good harvest during this whole period.

As far as we of the Left are concerned, right from the beginning we attempted to intervene at several stages to avert a constitutional crisis, a confrontation between the legislature, executive and judiciary, the politicization of the impeachment issue.

The members of the House are perfectly entitled to their constitutional right to move a resolution for an impeachment. If the party concerned is proved guilty, he or she should step down or be removed. This is unquestionable.

However, as representative of the people in the legislature being supreme, we should act fairly, judicially, ethically, constitutionally, and legally set an example to the other organs of the State. Parliament never attempts to usurp powers of the executive or judiciary. Equally we cannot allow the executive or judiciary to cause invasion to our territory.

Parliament is not supreme over the people or even the Constitution – our supremacy lies at the level of the three organs of the State. We can claim to be supreme, as representatives of the people who are sovereign. But the fact remains that under the 1978 Constitution our supremacy has eroded. Our power has been substantially reduced. This is the root cause of the chaotic situation. As legislators, we do not enjoy the powers we enjoyed under the 1972 Constitution.

We are no longer supreme, as some of our members claim for we are being bridled both by the executive and the judiciary.

Fundamentally, all these issues arise from the destructive and defective nature of the 1978 Constitution. Remedy is to get rid of it as early as possible, as otherwise, we shall continue to suffer the consequences of these controversies, conflicts and confrontations between these three organs of the State.

There have been attempts of invasion by the judiciary on the legislature by the Chief Justice Sarath Silva. Speaker Anura Bandaranaike had to react and resist.

For democracy to thrive, the rule of law has to be guaranteed. For that the supremacy of Parliament is important. We must take back the powers that have been usurped. The independence of judiciary must be guaranteed to ensure that the judiciary must cooperate with the executive and the legislature.

We must not create by ourselves conditions for conspiracies or foreign intervention. If we solve our problems by ourselves in cooperation with the political parties, such conducive conditions for foreign intervention will not emerge.

Finally, I wish to reiterate what Speaker Anura Bandaraniake, in his historic decision of 20-06-2001 said: Members of Parliament may give their minds to the need to introduce fresh legislation or amend the existing Standing Orders regarding impeachment against judges of superior courts. I believe such provision has already been included in the draft constitution tabled in the House in August 2000." Thirteen years have lapsed, nothing was done. We have abdicated our responsibility, thus this crisis.

In consideration of these factors, my party has instructed me to refrain from voting on this motion, in keeping with the political position taken by my predecessor Sarath Muththettuwegama on a similar impeachment in 1984.





Moratuwa Eng. Faculty, Tech. Institute reopen after clash

The Engineering Faculty and Institute of Technology of the Moratuwa University reopened on Wednesday after being closed last week, following a clash between students of the two divisions.

However, Vice Chancellor Prof. Ananda Jayawardena told The Island that the Engineering Faculty opened only for its final year students.

"We will open the faculty for all students next week," he said.

Prof. Jayawardena said that the situation was back under control, but the investigation was still continuing.

"We opened the faculty for final year students of the Engineering faculty first as examinations are on," he said adding the Institute of Technology opened for all students.The university premises and hostels were declared out of bounds for students attached to the Engineering faculty and Technology Institute to prevent further clashes after last week's clash.

Eight students of the Engineering faculty and one National Diploma in Technology (NDT) student were hospitalized after the clash, which erupted in the university premises following an argument over a minor accident.





Pakistani refugee Ahmed in Australian PM XI

January 11, 2013, 8:27 pm

CANBERRA, Australia (AP) — Pakistan-born legspinner Fawad Ahmed has been named in an Australian Prime Minister's XI to play the West Indies on Jan. 29, only two months after gaining asylum in Australia at his second attempt.

The one-day match at Canberra's Manuka Oval is a traditional part of the Australian cricket calendar, which gives the national selectors a chance to blood rising young players against touring teams.

The Prime Minister's XI will be led by former Australia captain Ricky Ponting, with veteran wicketkeeper Brad Haddin as his vice-captain.

Fawad, 23, immigrated to Australia in 2010 on a short-term visa and later claimed refugee status, saying he faced persecution from religious extremists if he returned to Pakistan. His initial application was declined but he appealed and was granted permanent residency in November, 2012.

"Fawad is playing for the Melbourne Renegades in the Twenty20 Big Bash League and grade club Melbourne University, and we are encouraged by his ongoing development," Australia selection chairman John Inverarity said.

"We have also been very pleased with the progress of Indian-born fast bowler Gurinder Sandhu who has performed well for the Sydney Thunder following strong performances for Australia in last year's Under-19 World Cup."





NEW DELHI, January 11: Indian batting genius Sachin Tendulkar's son 13-year-old son Arjun has been selected to play for Mumbai Under-14 team in the West Zone leg matches of the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) tournament, due to be held in Ahmedabad from January 20 to February 1.

Arjun bats left-handed and scored his maiden century at the U-14 level for Khar Gymkhana, Mumbai, at the Cross Maidan against Goregaon Centre.

His innings of 124 had 14 boundaries and a six which helped Khar Gymkhana beat Goregaon Centre by an innings and 21 runs. This century helped break into the Mumbai U-14 probables list for an off-season training.

The teenager has been in the news in junior cricket circles in Mumbai for his all-round abilities as he once scalped eight for 22 bowling left-arm pace for Dhirubhai Ambani International School and helping them beat Jamnabai Narsee School in November 2011. Born on September 24, 1999, Arjun often goes to the stadium to watch his legendary father play.





Colombo's Tea curve to move up but not because of better quality

Indicators in the Tea trade, in Colombo, were collectively optimistic that Tea would be in for good times. At least, they said, first quarter 2013. Particularly black Tea.

Degree of optimism was such that euphoria that Tea prices in Colombo could move up to significant average gains. Brokers were not that enthusiastic that this was because 'Ceylon Tea' was a better brand. A Broker who declined identification made these prophetic comments.

Additionally, this broker said the Tea industry, particularly the small holder sector, is plagued by the dictates of 'Green leaf collectors', a new phenomenon that emerged who purchase leaf from small holders, and offer such leaf at prices they demand. Irrespective of the applicable bought leaf formula as instructed by the Tea Commissioner. This results in sub-standard leaf being supplied with no controls enforced at bought leaf factories; fearing they would lose their supplier base. Additionally, bought leaf factory owners are indebted to banks, and to avoid foreclosure such leaf is accepted.

Of about 700 Tea factories currently in operation, some 400 are in the Tea Factory Owners category.

The formal Plantation sector too will not have it so good. Effective March this year the collective agreement will lapse. Discussions on wage revisions have not begun. The Employers Federation of Ceylon confirmed that there was no exploratory indicators by Worker Unions that they have commenced such talks.

Additionally our information also hinged on the Plantation sector's continuous losses; and their inability to make ends meet.

The plusses will all be concentrated on the Tea Trade in Colombo with Brokers too on the profit band wagon.

Executive Director, Ceylon Tea Brokers, Waruna de Silva, commenting on performance of the tea industry 2012, said although less Tea was produced prices appreciated perhaps governed by less tea in the market. CIS countries including Russia continue to be the main destination for ' Ceylon Tea', followed by Iran and Syria. Notably Libya increasing their in- take, from 9.21 % to 9.22 %.

Director, Tea Promotion, Sri Lanka Tea Board, Hasitha de Alwis, clarifying expectations for 2013 said he agreed prices would move up in the new year, but expressed caution, for extreme optimism that upper levels could be as predicted by some Tea Brokers. Clarifying price upsurge he said it was a simple case of supply and demand. Major producers, India, Kenya, Indonesia, have all reported crop reduction. Sri Lanka too was in a minus category; but eventually because of correct weather, the plantations recouped their crop losses. Year end results could be that Sri Lanka would record a deficit of about one million kilos, which he said was not too bad.

Total expected global crop loss could be about 70 to 80 Million kilos.

Lanka Commodity Brokers Ltd.,(LCBL) carried recent news release that Starbucks, the famed coffee marketer was now interested in Tea. Clarifying significance of its interest, the report further said Teavana Holdings would change hands based on investment of $ 620 million to include interest in Tea.

'What would this mean for Ceylon Tea?' Sarath Sirisena CEO LCBL, adhering to content of the report said this would not mean global shift from coffee to tea as expected from the Starbucks acquisition. He also said 'Don't expect the change to bolster the Tea market tomorrow, that would not be. But what we could look forward to is that the Tea habit would enhance its user base to younger clientele. That would be the progressive factor of the Starbucks intrusion . 'Global shift' would not mean that people would stop the coffee habit. That too would not happen. What we could expect is that Tea would achieve more popularity.

Reverting to the supply and demand position on global shortage stemming from lower production from major Tea producers de Alwis said this would mean shortage of Tea to go round. Consequently this shortage would boost prices. He however made it quite clear this was in relevance to black Tea.

China on the other hand was a surplus Tea producer of Green Tea. Their surplus was about 135 million kilos. Green Tea was exported to Uzbekistan, Monrovia, and some other countries. But of note was that China's internal consumption amounted to about 80 % of their production. The China factor, although of relevance to Black Tea was not really a threat to Black Tea producers.

Increased buying from Pakistan was also a plus factor but the Tea trade were not quite enthusiastic about the Pakistan buyer. Pakistan was one of our major buyers, but moved to Kenya, because Kenya was producing a much cheaper Tea.





Sinhala language economic news website launched

January 11, 2013, 8:58 pm

randora.lk, a Sinhala language website providing the highest quality information on local and international markets, finance, economics and business news is ready to cover a much needed gap in information dissemination to the Sinhala speaking Sri Lankan citizenry under the banner "Economic wisdom for Life". Its primary goal is to ensure that Sinhala speaking intelligential, students, businesspeople, entrepreneurs and the general public is provided with much needed financial literacy through an inexpensive and highly interactive web based medium of instruction and discourse.

"The recent Celinco debacle, stock market crisis , the infamous sagas of Sakvithi Ranasinghe and Danduvam mudalali, all sorts of pyramid schemes and general confusion about business ethics has clearly proved that a majority of Sri Lankans, regardless of their status or education are relatively clueless about an aspect of life that is not only important but crucial for managing their affairs within a risk free engagement of the financial world," says The randora.lk, Managing Editor Ishara Gamage.

He goes on to point out the fact that unfortunately, almost all such information that is currently available to the general public is in the English language and as such, is not accessible to the majority of citizens of the country and that the new website is a thrust to even out the knowledge disparity that is created due to language barriers.

In order to provide the highest quality information, randora.lk has tied up with some of the foremost finance and business experts and personalities in the country to contribute articles, advice and information that is both highly relevant and highly qualitative.

The site will contain market information, topical articles on business, finance and economics, and global economic news and market movement information, practical techniques and methods of engaging markets as well as an entire section dedicated to school education on economics creating a one-stop-shop for Sinhala speaking Sri Lanka to obtain all the information they want and ask all the questions they wish to ask to ensure that their contact with this aspect of life is both highly knowledgeable and highly informed.





He said that the CMC has introduced a banking system at Bank of Ceylon and People's Bank for the payment of Property Tax and there will also be an internet banking system through the Commercial Bank. He also said Credit Card payments will be accepted at the CMC counters.

The Municipal Treasurer said that these decisions were taken to assist rate payers who are employed and for their convenience.

He said that the CMC was able to collect even Rs. 3,080 million from Property Tax as a result of numerous programmes launched. He was confident that the outstanding Rs. 640 million could be collected soon.





Living in a state of exception

January 11, 2013, 12:00 pm

By Sumanasiri Liyanage

Many legal luminaries have expressed their views on the controversial decision of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Sri Lanka on the Parliament's right over the impeachment of judges of the Superior Courts, the Supreme Courts and the Court of Appeal. On the basis of the Supreme Court decisions, the court of appeal has given an order to quash the Parliamentary Select Committee report that was given to the Speaker of the Parliament that has led to a constitutional deadlock. The Article 125 (1) of the Constitution of Sri Lanka says: "The Supreme Court shall have sole and exclusive jurisdiction to hear and determine any question relating to the interpretation of the Constitution." Hence, the argument is that the Parliament should abide by the decision of the appeal court not to proceed further on the impeachment process. The legal experts have opposite views on the subject. Former Professor of Law of the Colombo University and the former Chief Justice have argued that the SC determination is inconsistent with the constitution. On the other hand, many constitutional lawyers and the opposition Parliamentarians argue that since the SC has the exclusive power of interpretation of the constitution, the only option available is to accept it even though one can question its legality. However, the Sri Lankan Constitution does not provide for such questioning in the legal sphere as no higher judicial body than the Supreme Court exists. I have neither legal training nor expertise on the subject to comment on the validity of these opposite views.

Nonetheless, I have been interested in constitutional issues for many years as a layman especially with regard to constitutional design on power-sharing. My scanty knowledge of constitutions however gives the impression that the SC determination is a clear example of not judiciary activism but judiciary overreach. So there is a potential for current deadlock to develop into a major systemic crisis. Such a development would not depend on the constitutionality or otherwise of the decision of Parliament or the determination of the Supreme Court, but on how contending actors act in the political sphere. This is not a legal battle but definitely a political one. Hence, it should not be portrayed as a battle for high normative principles such as the independence of judiciary or people's sovereignty or democracy.

To decipher the developments in the recent past and the possible developments in near future, they should be put in a proper context. Here, I think that three syntagmas, namely, the state of exception (the concept advanced by Giorgio Agamben), the threat perception (oftentimes linked with hegemonic nationalism) and the system of bribes (the term I deployed in my two previous articles on the same subject) would be helpful. Let me first delineate the notion of state of exception briefly. Carl Schmitt remarked that the sovereign is he who decides on the state of exception (in different situations different terms have been used, emergency, martial law etc). Agamben's argument is that in today's world, in almost all the countries, of course in different degree, the state of exception has become the normal state of affairs. So the distinction among different organs of power namely, the legislature, the executive and the judiciary will get blurred. It does not end there. He writes: "As we shall see, the state of exception constitutes rather a kinematic state, an emptiness of law, and the idea

of an originary indistinction and fullness of power must be considered a legal mythologem analogous to the idea of a state of nature." As Walter Benjamin remarked, 'the state of exception has become the rule'. It may not necessarily be an outcome of abrupt change. It may result in by gradual expansion of the power of the executive. Today, the legislative powers of the Parliaments in many countries are limited to ratifying the measures that the executive wants legislative bodies to pass. So, one of the essential characteristics of the state of exception is the provisional abolition of the distinction among legislative, executive and judiciary powers. For this tendency to be unleashed through formal constitutional means, it needs other supportive mechanisms to which I turn shortly.

Sri Lankan Constitution of 1978 provided the legal-constitutional framework for the establishment of the state of exception through constitutional means. It was extremely difficult to institute it when the executive is bound to operate within the legislature (the Westminster framework). So, the two organs of government have to be separated. A simple procedure was designed for the removal of judges so that a legal space was given to tame, if necessary, the judiciary. Some have even praised the 1978 Constitution saying that it ensures the independence of judiciary totally misreading the constitutional design and intent. However, it is pertinent here to note that this constitutional design is not adequate to institute constitutional warranted state of exception.

The two supportive mechanisms have been an introduction of a system of bribes and hegemonic nationalism. Presidential system from 1977 onwards is supported by institutionalization of bribe-taking and bribe-giving. Here, I do not mean only financial transactions. It would be positions, opportunities for rent-seeking etc. In this context people would withdraw their support for the system for two reasons. First, if they believe different set of principles and have not yet subordinated themselves to growing comsumerism. (These people were derogatively described as 'dreamers'). Secondly, people would move away from the regime if they are excluded or marginalized from the system of bribe. Comodification and consumerism thus contribute immensely to the maintenance and preservation of the system of bribe and in turn the system of authoritarianism.

In Sri Lankan context like in many other countries, the maintenance of the state of exception has also been supported by promoting threat perception which is oftentimes linked with nationalist campaign. The regime can justify the state of exception by emphasizing and over inflating the security threat coming from within and without. We have witnessed not even prior to 2009 but in post 2009. During this period all three organs of power worked in synergy by suppressing all kind of resistance.

However, occasionally since 1977, we have seen many instances in which system has shown its internal flaws. If we focus only on recent events, we may mentions conflict between the CJ and the Executive when Sarath Silva was the CJ. The resignation of Sarath Fonseka from the regime signified another crack in the system What we are witnessing today is another crack of the system in which each party is using its power and authority either to integrate into the system or to replace the individuals to run the same system.

The writer is Co-coordinator of Marx School, Colombo, Kandy and Negombo





More bad weather: Raging waters drag away two more persons

Strong winds and heavy rains lashed many parts, of the country once again, causing further suffering to the people, in the Northern, Eastern and Central Provinces and the Hambantota District.

The death toll due to adverse weather had increased to 48 since last month and more than 385,631 people, in the Matale, Kandy, Nuwara Eliya, Polonnaruwa, Anuradhapura, Batticaloa, Ampara, Vavuniya, Badulla, Mannar, Jaffna and Kilinochchi districts have been affected. Eight people were still missing.

The Police yesterday reported that two persons, in Passara and Badulla, had been washed away due to the heavy rains and adverse weather that prevailed in the hill country on Thursday night (10).

A person identified as Sthalawatte Piyaratne (52) of Waradapola, Passara had been washed away when he had tried to cross the Menik Ganga at Gamwelakotuwa. Dhanasekera Mudiyanselage Dingiri Banda (65), a resident of Hambawela, had gone missing after being washed away while crossing the Hambawela bridge in Badulla at around 8.00 p.m.

Train services on up country railway track have come to a standstill due to earth slips in the Hali Ela, Badulla and Uduwa areas. According to the Department of Railways, all train services, including night mail services and the train leaving for Badulla at 5.55 a.m. will be terminated at Nanu Oya, until next Tuesday (15) due to the inclement weather.

The Nuwara Eliya-Badulla road has been blocked due to a mound of earth falling on it, covering a 50-metre stretch at the Haggala Botanical Gardens. The Kandy-Jaffna A-9 road was also obstructed due to floods halting transport activities. Transportation along the Chettikulam road was also disrupted as a result of the heavy rains. Police advised motorists to use alternate roads due to the closure of the main roads.

Meanwhile, the Irrigation Department said that 51 of 71 reservoirs, managed by the department, are overflowing. The Kalawewa, Angamuwa, Mahakanadarawa, Padawiya, Nachchaduwa, Rajanganaya tanks in Anuradhapura, Kawudulla, Parakrama Samudraya, Minneriya tanks in Polonnaruwa, Reservoirs in the Batticaloa and Trincomalee districts, forty one tanks in Vavuniya, Mullaitivu and Wanni, are spilling over.

According to the Irrigation Department, eight sluice gates of the Victoria reservoir, fourteen spill gates of the Rajanganaya reservoir, spill gates of the Nachchaduwa tank, eight spill gates of the Thabbowa reservoir and twelve spill gates of the Kaudulla reservoir have been opened.

As the major reservoirs and streams were overflowing, some offices and the pilgrims' rests in the sacred city of Anuradhapura were also under water.

After the Kahambiliya Oya breached its banks, forty families from Medirigiriya, Kirimetiya and Weli Ela have been displaced.

The National Building Research Organisation (NBRO) has issued a fresh landslide warning for the Central and Uva provinces due to the inclement weather conditions. According to the NBRO, the Medadumbara, Pahathahewahete areas in the Kandy district are at risk. Walapane, Nuwara Eliya and Kotmale areas in the Nuwara Eliya district and several areas, excluding Mahiyangana in the Badulla district are also at risk of facing potential landslides.

Five schools in Kandy and two schools in Matale have been closed until further notice due to landslide threats. The schools are: Molagoda Piyadassi Vidyalaya, Galkanda Kanishta Vidyalaya, Galhinna Inmaliya Vidyalaya in Kandy district and Srimavo Bandaranaike Vidyalaya, and Pussella Vidyalaya in the Matale district.

The Meteorology Department said that the adverse weather situation would prevail today as well with showers expected in all parts of the country, except the North. Showers will occur at times in the Eastern, Central and Uva provinces. Those showers may spread to the Western, Sabaragamuwa, Southern and North-western provinces too. Monsoonal winds can strengthen up to 60 km/hr. from time to time over the country and surrounding sea areas.





'Traditions' galore at Vanni

January 11, 2013, 8:07 pm

In the past when people travelled to Jaffna, terrorists harassed them by asking them to register their names, examining their bag and baggage and even imposing a tax on some of the goods taken by them. Thanks to the President, who has eradicated terrorism and made the journey to Jaffna an easy one.

But some of the practices followed by the terrorists still continue. When the Jaffna bound night bus reaches Omanthai past midnight, the bus is stopped at a massive army check point. The passengers who are fast asleep after a hard day's work are woken up by the army. Foreign passport holders, many of them past their seventies and feeble, are asked to alight from the bus and walk to the office. They have to register their passports, address, purpose of their travel etc with the army. Those foreigners are in fact ex-Sri Lankans who come to pay a visit to their place of birth in the North. The locals are asked to show their identity cards to the army women who board the bus to check passengers. We can see for ourselves that army shows much pride that they get an opportunity to show off, specially to foreigners that Jaffna bound passengers have to get their permission to enter the North. The foreigners referred to as Tamil Diaspora by the government, also get to know that they are entering new territory which is under the rule of the army. This will give them a warning to be cautious about army rule in their birth places.

When passengers return to Colombo the buses are again stopped at Omanthai check point around midnight. This time all the passengers are asked to get down with their heavy bag and baggage and walk through the check post. The army checks the contents in the bags. They also ask various questions from the sleepy passengers. The Army must be under the impression that Tamils who live among Sinhalese in the South suddenly become terrorists when they return from Jaffna. The Army suspects that those passengers are trying to smuggle ammunition to the South.

After this ritual is completed they board the bus and continue their journey. The passengers heave a sigh of relief because the victorious army's rule ends at the Omanthai check point.

What the terrorists did before 2009 to the Jaffna bound passengers is now repeated by the army. It has become a tradition in the hands of the army. Since Sri Lankans love to follow traditions in this manner, this ritual of harassing the Tamil passengers will go on forever. The Army is now employed in the North for this purpose.





The second batch of leadership training for the latest university entrants would start on January 16 at 22 centres countrywide, Additional Secretary to the Higher Education Ministry P. G. Jayasinghe said.

He told The Island that 7860 students would undergo the leadership training programme in the second batch.

"We will commence the training of the third batch on February 12 after concluding the second batch programme on February 01," Jayasinghe said.

The names of selected students for the second batch would be available on www.leadership.mohe.gov.lk, he said.

Jayasinghe said that the names of students who had been selected for the third batch would be released in the last week of this month.

If there were any questions on the leadership training programme they could contact the ministry on 0112399314 and 0112435306.

The first batch of the leadership training programme is being conducted at countrywide military establishments these days, Jayasinghe said adding the programme was jointly organised by the Higher Education Ministry, University Grants Commission and the Ministry of Defence.





Health insurance for elders

January 11, 2013, 8:04 pm

I write with reference to Dr. Prasanna Cooray's article on the high cost of medical treatment, published in The Island of 2nd January 2013. He focuses on this very real problem and quite rightly calls for a health insurance scheme in which, not the patient but the CSR, presumably of Insurance companies, which earn a great deal, would contribute the cost.

In this regard, I have long advocated a CSR aided limited insurance scheme for Elders especially as we know that, though they cannot avail themselves of even essential and urgent medical services, those institutions that provide them can also afford to do so.

I therefore present here my scheme which I have discussed with the Senior Officials of the Ministry of Social Services, who were most constructive in discussion.

I therefore hope that in early 2013 there will emerge a desperately needed, at least a limited insurance scheme, not only for Elders but also for those who cannot live without it.

"A Specially Designed Health Insurance Scheme for Elders"

Addressing a media conference on 27th March 2012 in anticipation of World Health Day on April 4th this year, the WHO Country Director in Sri Lanka, Dr. F.R. Mehta, stated that between 2000 and 2050, the world's population over 60 years is expected to increase from 605 million to 2 billion and that one of the decisive transformations during this period was population ageing.

Dr. Mehta explained that the elderly, if not seriously protected , socially accepted and psychologically confident, would see their lives reduced to existence without purpose which he likened to be tantamount to a vegetative existence or social death. With their best years gone, companions departed and no one to share and care, they would tend to consider themselves as of no use to society.

With such a dire prospect facing Sri Lanka as a fast ageing country, the least our society could do for them, many of whom have rendered yeoman service to it, is to at least offer them a special Health Insurance Scheme as many of them have neither pension nor are beneficiaries of an Insurance Scheme and are overage to start contributing to one. Therefore, State / CSR funds should be used to start off a Special Health Insurance Scheme so that they could live out the few years left to them in good health.

The scheme could be limited initially to about a 1000 Elders in which hospitals, which are healthcare providers should join in offering their services, in a dual way: [i]monthly for prescribed needs, such as drugs, in a modest sum and [ii] a generous sum annually for meeting an ad hoc expensive medical need and/or requiring hospitalization."





Large reptile found guarding California pot stash

In this photo released by the Alameda County Sheriffs office, an alligator named "Mr. Teeth" is seen after it was discovered in a home in Castro Valley, Calif., on Wednesday, Jan. 9, 2013. (AP)

SAN FRANCISCO (AP) — Authorities in Northern California made a snappy discovery during a routine probation check: An alligator-like reptile named "Mr. Teeth," who was apparently protecting a stash of marijuana.

When Alameda County Sheriff's deputies entered the Castro Valley home on Tuesday, they not only found 34 pounds of marijuana valued at an estimated $100,000, but also the 5-foot (1.52-meter)-long caiman inside a Plexiglas tank guarding it in a bedroom.

Caimans are usually found in the wetland regions of Central and South America. They're considered close relatives of alligators.

"We get guard dogs all the time when we search for grow houses and people stashing away all types of dope. But alligators? You just don't see that every day," Sgt. J.D. Nelson said Thursday.

The reptile's owner, Assif Mayar, was arrested Tuesday and later charged with one count of possessing marijuana for sale. Mayar, 32, did not enter a plea during his arraignment in Alameda County Superior Court. He is being held in jail on $20,000 bail and is due back in court on Jan. 15.

He could also face citations from the California Fish and Game Commission, including possession of an exotic animal without a permit.





Sri Lanka faces a period of unprecedented crisis, if the President does not act wisely over the attempted impeachment of the Chief Justice. It will be a crisis that we have brought upon ourselves quite unnecessarily. An attempt to impeach and remove the Chief Justice is a very serious step that should not be undertaken without careful thought. The fourteen purported 'charges' against the Chief Justice did not arise overnight, immediately after the Bench of the Supreme Court headed by the Chief Justice ruled on the unconstitutionality of provisions of the Divineguma Bill and the 2013 Budget and the subsequent refusal of the Judges to see the President in this regard. It was clear that the 'charges' were hastily prepared, not only because it contained many factual errors but also because the government would have found it difficult to sustain them in a court of law. It is not without significance that all independent individuals and organizations, that is everyone without any political agenda, have, without exception, pointed out that the whole impeachment process was deeply flawed.

The government politicians will not be able to convince the public that respected citizens, who are religious and civil society leaders like the Mahanayakes, Prof Bellanwila Wimalaratne Thera, Archbishop Malcolm Ranjith, Bishop Duleep de Chickera, Judge C G Weeramantry and Dr Jayantha Dhanapala are part of an international 'conspiracy' or are agents of the 'LTTE rump'. Besides, professional organisations like the Federation of Chambers of Commerce, Bar Association of Sri Lanka, Federation of University Teachers' Associations and independent civil society groups like the Civil Rights Movement and Friday Forum, none of whom can be accused of having any hidden agendas, have all, without exception, commented on the dangerous consequences for Sri Lanka as a nation if the government were to remove the Chief Justice under the current process.

The Judgements of the Courts

The Supreme Court has upheld the unconstitutionality of the process adopted by the government and the Court of Appeal has quashed the findings of the Parliamentary select Committee. The Supreme Court determined that Standing Order 78A under which the impeachment process was gone through was not law. Former Chief Justice Sarath Silva, whose role during and after his term as Chief Justice was, to say the least, controversial, appears to have commented that the Supreme Court did not take into account that the Constitution provides for an alternative mechanism for the removal of a Judge.

Article 107 (3) of the Constitution states that 'Parliament shall by law or Standing Orders provide for all matters relating to ...., investigation and proof of the alleged misbehaviour or incapacity...' The Civil Rights Movement pointed out in a statement issued on 15th November that what the Parliament did under these Standing Orders, was for the investigation and determination to be by a Select Committee of Parliament. Now, a Select Committee is composed of Members of Parliament and therefore part of the legislature. Our Constitution is specific about the separation of the Executive, Legislative and Judicial powers of the people. Article 4(c) of the Constitution states: 'The judicial power of the People shall be exercised by Parliament through courts, tribunals and institutions created and established or recognised by the Constitution, or created and established by law, except in regard to matters relating to the privileges, immunities and powers of Parliament and of its Members....' The one and only exception in Parliament exercising judicial powers is, the CRM statement points out, as reqards its own privileges etc. Investigation and proof of misbehaviour or incapacity of a judge does not come within this exception. So when in Article 107 it is provided that 'Parliament shall by law or by Standing Orders' provide for the investigation and proof of the alleged misbehaviour or incapacity, Parliament cannot, by reason of the provision or Article 4(c) cited above, require that it be heard by a Select Committee of its own members.

Judicial power solely with judiciary

This was also the interpretation unanimously upheld by a five-bench Court headed by Justice Wanasundera in 1984 and which has been quoted before in this column. Justice Wanasundera in delivering the judgement referred to Article 4(c) and stated: "On a plain reading of this provision, it is clear the judicial power of the People can only be exercised by 'judicial officers' as defined in article 170, except in regard to matters relating to the privileges, immunities and powers of Parliament. I think no counsel before us disputed that these provisions indicate an unmistakable vesting of the judicial power of the People in the judiciary established by or under the Constitution and that Parliament acts as a conduit through which the judicial power of the People passes to the judiciary. Whatever the wording of Article 4(c) may suggest, there could be little doubt that at the lowest this provision, read with the other provisions, has brought about a functional separation of the judicial power from the other powers in our Constitution and accordingly the domain of judicial power (except the special area carved out for Parliament), has been entrusted solely and exclusively to the judiciary.' The learned Judges of the Supreme Court last week have similarly held that the Parliamentary Select Committee procedure under Standing Order 78A was bad in law and did not conform to Article 107 of the Constitution.

Following the Supreme Court judgement, the Court of Appeal has quashed the findings of the Parliamentary Select Committee. If the President and the government believe in upholding the rule of law and the Constitution, they must have the humility and the good sense to accept these judgements and terminate further proceedings in respect of the findings of the select Committee. If they disagree with these verdicts, they could always instruct the Attorney General to file an appeal against the judgement for the case to be heard by a fuller bench or even the full Bench of the Supreme Court (without, of course, the Chief Justice who naturally will not sit on a Bench hearing her own case).

Consequences of disregarding

Court rulings

But, brazenly flouting the court judgements can have disastrous consequences for the country. The law of the jungle as described in Kipling's poem will replace the Rule of Law. Already, political lawlessness has reared its ugly head in our country. UPFA's Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha member Hasitha Madawala was murdered recently. Earlier, UPFA's Bharatha Lakshman was also shot dead. In both cases, they had fallen foul of fellow UPFA politicians who enjoyed greater political patronage. This week, in Jaffna, a staff member of the Uthayan newspaper, which is critical of the activities of a local UPFA politician, was waylaid and assaulted and his newspaper delivery vehicle and copies of the newspaper burnt. Several prominent persons, including two judges of the Court of Appeal who heard the Chief Justice's writ application, have complained of receiving death threats. If the President and the government go ahead with disregarding the court rulings, as some government politicians have proposed, then the state of lawlessness will turn to greater anarchy and a breakdown in governance.

S L Gunasekera has said that no self-respecting person will accept the position of Chief Justice under the present circumstances when the Court has quashed the findings of the Parliamentary Select committee against the sitting Chief Justice. But the problem that our country faces today is that the moral and ethical standards of public life have deteriorated to such an extent that there are people who are prepared to accept public positions and become willing pawns of politicians. We have seen that in the case of newspaper editors, heads of statutory bodies and even of academic institutions. So the government nominee for the position of Chief Justice may have no self-respect, moral principles or ethical standards, but will still have no qualms about taking up the position irrespective of the contempt that he or she will face from a discerning public. S L Gunasekera has also said that he will on principle not appear as a counsel before such an appointee. It is possible that many members of the Bar may also take up that position. That will no doubt lead to a chaotic situation. But the situation will be compounded if fellow members of the judiciary also treat such an appointee with the same contempt.

The Friday Forum, under the signatures of Jayantha Dhanapala, Prof Savitri Goonesekere and Jayampathy Wickremaratne, have also warned of other consequences of unlawfully removing the present Chief Justice and replacing her with the government's own nominee. Apart from shaking public confidence in our legal system, the legality of judgements delivered by a Bench of which the replacement Chief Justice is a member can be challenged even years later causing confusion and chaos in public and business affairs. Our international image which has already taken a beating will further suffer irreparable harm.

Options for the President

Irrespective of the parliamentary vote on the impeachment motion we hope the President will refrain from leading the nation to such a disastrous situation. He must uphold the Rule of Law by accepting the judgements of the Court. The Attorney General can lodge an appeal against the judgements and request a full Bench of the Supreme Court to hear the appeal; or the sounder alternative would be to frame new laws as proposed by the government in 2000, of which he was a part, setting out a new procedure for the removal of a Judge of the Supreme Court. It will take time but time will be a great healer for all sides. President Rajapakse will receive recognition, nationally and internationally, for acting like a statesman if he does that.

Rizana Nafeek

The news this week of the tragic fate that has befallen young Razeena Nafeek in Saudi Arabia has no doubt touched the hearts of Sri Lanka. The under-age child went to the Middle East to work as a housemaid so that she could support her impoverished family in Mutur. Her duties in the household where she was given employment apparently extended beyond being a housemaid. While minding an infant alone in the house, and while milk-feeding, the infant had died. No post-mortem was held to determine the cause of death. Nafeek was unfairly, by international legal standards, tried and found guilty of murder.

After the foul deed is done, there is little to gain in blaming anybody at this stage. But we need to pay tribute to the Asian Human Rights Commission in Hong Kong which took an interest in Nafeek's case, raised money for her legal expenses and followed up her case throughout her period in the death row. It was also the AHRC which warned us of her imminent execution while reports were being released in Colombo of her imminent release! We hope some organisation will take the initiative to improve the quality of life for Nafeek's family and the education of her siblings, for which cause young Razeena Nafeek sought employment in Saudi Arabia.





Sri Lanka offers tourists a 'Healing Journey'

January 11, 2013, 8:47 pm

By Mario Andree

With leading hospitality industrialists raising caution over the achievability of government set goals for the tourism industry, taking to consideration the drop in last year's growth, despite the Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority predicting a 30 percent annual growth since 2009, a new company was recently formed to provide and promote medical tourism.

The government anticipates more than 2.5 million arrivals by 2016 and foreign exchange earnings of US$ 2.75 billion, 'Healing Journey', a new medical tourism service provider, hopes to attract high yielding foreigners and the Diaspora to support the government's ambitions.

Medical tourism has not been a key area of focus, despite more than 950,000 arrivals were recorded last year. 'Healing Journey' launched its website to promote the local medical sector and would voyage on a vigorous marketing campaign to promote Sri Lanka as a leading medical destination.

Healing Journey Director Sanjaya Padmaperuma said the company expected to attract more than 200 patients in its first year.

According to Padmaperuma, there was a large demand from the western markets for medical assistance and Sri Lanka has an upper hand with its services to cater those markets.

The product which would be offered will consist of tours around Sri Lanka promoting both medical and leisure travel.

Addressing queries raised by the media, Padmaperuma said that the company was not competing with the large medical tourism offering countries initially. However, the price structures offered to patients would be competitive.

According to him the current issues in the local medical system were not expected to hamper the company's efforts to promote Sri Lanka as a medical destination with leading private hospitals offering services on par with international standard.

Initially, the company would operate with Durdens Hospital and Ceylon Tours and would expand to other hospitals in the longer run. So far, several leading local doctors have signed up to offer their services and the company is the process of recruiting international professionals to offer superior services.

Tourist arrivals for the first 11 months of this year increased by 16.5 percent to 883,353 from 758,458 a year earlier, the last published Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority data showed.





Japan gives Rs. 200 mn for N' Eliya roads development

January 11, 2013, 11:09 pm

By Cyril Wimalasurendre

KANDY – a sum of Rs. 200 million had been received from JAIKA, the Japanese aid organization, for the development of three main roads in the Nuwara Eliya district, according to Private Transport Minister C.B. Ratnayake.

The funding agency had made the allocation following a request made by him, he said.

The roads to be developed are the Brookside – Mahakudusale road, the Niladandahinna-Udapussallawa road to Watumulla, the Bogahawatta-Maldeniya road and the Hanguranketha-Adikarigama road.

The development process on some roads had already commenced, minister Ratnayake said.





Oil near $94 as China inflation picks up

BANGKOK (AP) — Oil prices edged up Friday but gains were contained by a rise in China's inflation that if sustained could limit measures to support growth.

Benchmark oil for February delivery was up 3 cents to $93.85 per barrel at midday Bangkok time in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange.

The contract rose 72 cents to finish at $93.82 a barrel in New York on Thursday, a gain that traders attributed to a rebound in China's trade growth, which suggests a possible recovery in global demand.

Data released Thursday showed China's export growth in December more than quadrupled from the previous month's level to 14 percent. Imports rose 6 percent, after failing to grow at all in November, in a sign of increasing domestic demand.

It was tempered, however, by data showing China's inflation spiking to a six-month high in December. Consumer prices rose 2.5 percent over a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said, driven by a 14.8 percent jump in vegetable prices after a severe winter hurt harvests.

Higher inflation could hamper Beijing's ability to support China's recovery.

"Although this shows greater demand in China, it also stokes inflationary fears, which might lead to some form of tightening," said Stan Shamu of IG Markets in Melbourne.

Brent crude, used to price international varieties of oil, fell 34 cents to $111.55 per barrel on the ICE Futures exchange in London.





Nature's Secrets sales force goes high tech

January 11, 2013, 7:18 pm

Cosmetic producer Nature's Secrets provided its over a hundred-strong sales force with tablet computers. This initiative will enable the sales personnel to expedite the supply process by informing the supply centers and the head office via an online system as soon as they received a sales order. The use of tablets not only enables the sales force to expedite the process of giving sales orders but also enables them to send daily updates of sales data to the Head Office.

"The introduction of tablet-enabled supply order system reduces the use of paper on a large scale, thus allowing the company to maintain its green practices. Ceylon Linux, a Sri Lankan ICT company designed the automatic tablet enabled communications system for Nature's Beauty Creations Ltd," the company said in statement.

During a ceremony held at the Nature's Beauty Creations Ltd in Millawa, Horana the Sales Force received the tablet computers and motor cycles. Samantha Kumarasinghe, Chairman/Managing Director of Nature's Beauty Creations Ltd and a host of other senior members of the company were present at the occasion.

Addressing the gathering at the occasion, Samantha Kumarasinghe, Chairman/Managing Director of Nature's Beauty Creations Ltd said, "All our endeavours as a company are directed towards realizing the vision of building Nature's Secrets to become an international brand that represents Sri Lanka. Nature's Secrets products are ISO and GMP certified as our manufacturing is conducted in a state-of-the-art factory, maintaining high manufacturing standards and sanitary conditions. We have taken further measures to improve our brand value through empowering our Sales Force with the latest technology,".





Villa shines in Barcelona's Copa win over Cordoba

January 11, 2013, 8:31 pm

BARCELONA, Spain (AP) — David Villa made his case for returning to Barcelona's starting lineup by scoring twice in a 5-0 win over Cordoba on Thursday that sealed a place in the Copa del Rey quarterfinals.

The Spain striker has struggled to find minutes since returning from a broken leg. But he again proved he hasn't lost his scoring touch with two fine goals to follow Thiago Alcantara's opener at Camp Nou stadium.

Barcelona eased by its second-division opponent 7-0 on aggregate after Alexis Sanchez added two goals in the second half.

Villa was forced off in the closing stages with what the club said later was cramp in his left leg.

"(Villa) is a great scorer. It's his great characteristic and he played a good game," said Barcelona assistant Jordi Roura, who coached the team while coach Tito Vilanova is receiving treatment for a throat tumor.

"He showed us what we all know, that he will be an important player for us this season."

Barcelona now faces three games in the next two weeks against Malaga. The two teams play on Sunday in the Spanish league and then twice more in the Copa.

Atletico Madrid will meet Real Betis in another quarterfinal after they both wrapped up their last-16 ties on Thursday.

Barcelona star Lionel Messi, who was awarded his fourth straight Ballon d'Or on Monday, never left the bench. He had already scored Barcelona's two goals in the first leg.

Barcelona also rested first-choice midfielders Xavi Hernandez and Andres Iniesta while Sergio Busquets was reserved as a substitute.

Thiago opened for the hosts in the 17th minute when he ran onto Alex Song's chipped pass and slotted a right-footed shot past goalkeeper Mikel Saizar.

Villa doubled the lead four minutes later with a beautiful slalom down the left flank to dribble by a defender before he gently lofted the ball over the onrushing Saizar. He netted again in the 26th with a hard blast that hit the far post before nestling into the back of the net.

Despite not enjoying much playing time this season, Villa has scored 10 goals in all competitions.

Alexis, who had missed two clear chances in front of an open net, headed in a corner kick in the 55th and tapped in his second in the 85th.

"These goals will give me confidence," said Alexis, who had only scored once previously this season.

Villa appeared to hurt his right thigh after a sprint and had to go off after trying to continue, leaving Barcelona with 10 men for the final 13 minutes having made all there substitutes.

Earlier, Atletico drew 0-0 with 10-man Getafe to go through with a 3-0 victory on aggregate.

Atletico had little trouble protecting its lead from the home leg. Getafe was lackluster in attack and was reduced to 10 men in the 33rd minute after defender Rafael Lopez was red carded for fouling Radamel Falcao with only the goalkeeper to beat.

Getafe forward Angel Lafita was carried off with an injury early in the match.

Betis eliminated second-division club Las Palmas with a 1-0 win to advance 2-1 over the two legs.

Ruben Castro scored his second goal of the tie in the 85th to seal Betis' place in the quarterfinals.





NTB opens 365-day banking unit in H'tota

January 11, 2013, 8:49 pm

Nations Trust Bank added an important milestone to the bank's expansion plan with the opening of the 58th branch in Hambantota recently. In line with the bank's strategy of expanding customer touch points, Nations Trust Bank opened their 1st new branch for this year in Hambantota – a town that is developing rapidly poised to be a key performer in driving the country's economic success.

Located at 39,Main Street, Hambantota , the new branch is based on the banks proprietary design concept that offers the bank's signature services of 365 day banking with extended hours, the ultimate in convenience, a modern banking hall and exceptional customer service that is provided by professionally trained and courteous staff.

Nations Trust Bank, now in operation for 13 years, has grown steadily in strength and stability. The Group closed the 9 months with a post tax profit of Rs. 1,460Mn surpassing the comparative period of last year by 25%. Core-earnings posted good growth over 2011 with net revenue increasing by 19%.

Commenting at the branch opening, Deputy General Manager Ms. Keshini Jayawardena said. "The opening of our 58th branch in this fast developing city is evidence of the thrust we are putting behind expansion to reach to a larger population of the country. We will continue to offer a different banking experience through the service offering together with our trained and professional staff that is ready to assist our valuable customers throughout our branches. I am confident that as we grow we will continue to tailor make our financial propositions to suit varied customer needs".





Virtusa recognized at the Global Commerce Excellence Awards 2012

January 11, 2013, 9:02 pm

Virtusa Corporation, a global IT services company that offers a broad range of information technology services, including IT consulting, technology implementation and application outsourcing, was recognized for its outstanding contribution to Sri Lanka's economy at the Global Commerce Excellence Awards 2012, held in Colombo recently.

Global Commerce Excellence Awards seeks to honor public and private companies which have invested and serviced the national economy since 1985. Virtusa was among the international companies recognized this year for its valuable inputs to the economy, particularly to the growth and sustenance of the IT industry.

Commenting on the achievement, Kris Canekeratne, Chairman and CEO at Virtusa said ""We are delighted to be recognized for the contributions made to Sri Lanka's economy. Our focus on providing consulting and IT outsourcing services to preeminent global 2000 enterprises provides unparalleled opportunities for our team members to innovate and build cutting-edge solutions. We are very encouraged with the progress Sri Lanka's IT sector is making and the aspiration of making the IT / BPO sector a larger contributor to the national economy."

The award, which is endorsed by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka, was presented by the Shippers' Academy Colombo in partnership with the Sri Lanka Ports Authority, the Board of lnvestment of Sri Lanka and Airport Aviation Services Sri Lanka.





Dawning of a new world order

January 11, 2013, 8:06 pm

Col. PH.W. Fawcett wrote a magnificent account of his expeditions in South America in his diaries. Most people believed he went missing looking for a lost civilisation. During my wanderings in Latin America 52 years ago (1959/60), I learnt that the Aztecs and Mayans were indeed a great civilisation, which were largely pillaged and plundered by the Spanish conquistadors in the 16th and 17th centuries followed by the British and Americans .

The deprived and tortured indigenous people bided their time, for they knew that their time will come- and it has now indeed come. The end of the Mayan calendar predicted the death of an old era and the beginning of a new one. At that time there was no mention of a Doomsday scenario which was a recent invention to sensationalize the event. Now that we have survived this apocalypse, I am more than convinced that the new era dawned on December 22, 2012.

I have patiently bided my time doing what I have to do and shall certainly be rewarded if I live a little longer to witness this new era. The crumbling is taking place of an era of big bullying and genocide by the high and mighty colonizing powers, the scandalous paedophiles in religious institutions, the mass robbery and rip-offs by international and local banks and big business, political thuggery and crimes, corruption and dictatorships, blatant murders and rapes, drugs and alcoholism. The whole world seems to have gone ridiculously awry. I knew for certain that crime never pays, cheats never prosper and evil breeds evil.

We now witness the big colonial bullies, and the other criminals, in their great desperation being dragged in deeper and deeper into the quagmire they created for themselves, losing any grip they had on their power and greed. The religious institutions and banks exposed of their gross anti-social conduct, dictators and despots being pushed through the wall and made to flee. Perhaps the Arab Spring was a precursor to this new world order.

We should all wait patiently to witness the dawning of this new world order. Believe me, patience can move mountains. All you have to do is engage in some useful toil, sit back and watch this drama unfold gradually but surely from 2013 onwards — may God help us.









Gurukula in first innings win

January 11, 2013, 11:38 pm

By Reemus Fernando

Hashan Dumindu and Lisula Lakshan added valuable 40s to help Gurukula College secure a first innings victory over Mahanama College in the inter school Under-19 tournament cricket encounter ended at BOI Ground yesterday.

After the first day's play was washed off, Gurukula did well to restrict Mahanama to 166 runs. In reply they made 133 for seven wickets before bad light forced an early end to the match yesterday.

An aggressive knock of 91 runs by Shehan Weerasinghe helped Zahira College recover from being 67 for six wickets at one stage to post 194 runs against Maris Stella College on the first day of their match at Maradana yesterday.

Weerasinghe scored 13 fours and four sixes in his knock which came in 78 balls. Weerasinghe added 124 runs for the seventh wicket with Irshad Umer.





A traditional Thai Pongal at Cinnamon Grand's Chutneys

January 11, 2013, 9:02 pm

Exult new beginnings at Cinnamon Grand's Chutneys this Thai Pongal day and enjoy the best South Indian cuisine Colombo has to offer. Thai Pongal, one of the biggest festivals celebrated in South India is traditionally a thanksgiving for the plentiful harvest received. On this auspicious day, Chutneys will become a shrine for culture and nature, draped in sugar canes, flowers and kolums, offering the perfect ambience for you and your family to celebrate.

Choose from Chutney's vibrant and authentic South Indian menu, which pays homage to the culinary extravagance that is South Indian fare. With experienced South Indian Chefs Venu and Krishna as part of the Chutney's team, the menu boasts the most inventive yet authentic of cuisines, mainly from the Andhra, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka regions. Ordering off the ala-carte-menu on Thai Pongal day, will entitle you to a special traditional Thai Pongal counter, so you can fully indulge in the experience.

This complimentary table of treats is available for lunch (12.00- 3.00pm) and dinner (7.00-11.00pm) to diners who order a meal off the main menu, on the 14th of January 2013. The table will lay out a mix of traditional sweets and savouries for your palette's pleasure, including Chakkarai pongal (milk, sugar rice), Bellampongal(jaggery rice), Avalpongal (Habalapethi), Ven pongal (Mung dhal with rice), Rawa pongal (semolina rice), Jaggery kiribath (proper ponghal rice), Aval, Kadala, Vadai, Modham and Susiam.





Worshipping Sri Pada 1116 times

January 11, 2013, 8:05 pm

I chanced upon a feature article in one of the more popular Sunday newspapers that carried a story of a Japanese monk domiciled in Sri Lanka who has paid homage to the holy shrine at Sri Pada 1116 times. An incredibly rare feat and a very remarkable achievement indeed. It is so special and amazing because paying homage to this holy shrine even once in the life- time of an individual is considered a great- blessing.

Being within the precincts of the sacred site and paying homage to the holy shrine any number of times is quite different from traveling from various distant places for the same purpose. And also it should be noted that normally the customary pilgrimage to the shrine takes place from the Unduwap full moon day in December to the month of Vesak, which is usually known as the Sri Pada season.

According to the story, this Japanese monk Ven. Giyoni Takashima aged 65, ordained in 1974 and having come to reside in Sri Lanka in 1975, had initially climbed the Sri Pada mountain in March 1977. There the Reverend says that he commenced his pilgrimage from the Mount Lavinia Parana Dhamma Chethiya Pirivena in Colombo all along the Ratnapura route by foot, - beating his traditional drum all the way, and it had taken him three days for the journey. And also the venerable monk says that since then he climbed the mountain every year and that at different times he had reached the sacred site via four routes, namely, Ratnapura, Kuruwita, Mahbada, and Murray.

At the beginning of the story it is revealed that many people relish very much to narrate the story of their climbing the sacred hill for it is considered to be an adventurous and arduous task, and it also says that there are devotees who have visited the shrine as many as 20 to 30 times as well.

To be fair by the story, it should be said that it was also stated that the venerable monk was resident within the precincts of the holy shrine for some time.

Anyway my contention is that it is doubtful and could not be within the realms of possibility for anyone to climb the hill and pay homage to the holy shrine such a large number of times amounting to 1116.





Turnover eases but both indices up

January 11, 2013, 8:46 pm

Turnover on the Colombo bourse eased though both indices picked up with the all Share Price Index gaining 14.28 points (0.25%) and S&P SL20 up 15.49 points (0.50%) on a turnover of Rs.454.2 million, down from the previous day's Rs.1.01 billion, with 86 gainers ahead of 81 losers while 90 counters closed flat.

" The ASPI ended higher on the back of sharp gains in a few large cap counters. Trades on JKH, DIST, and CTC, collectively accounted for around 40% of market turnover, inclusive of a crossing on CTC," John Keells Stockbrokers said.

Foreign sales amounted to Rs. 145.23 million leading to a net outflow of Rs. 14.37 million.

There was just one block trade of Ceylon Tobacco with 50,000 shares done at Rs.896 in a deal worth Rs.44.8 million.

JKH topped the turnover league closing 60 cents down at Rs.223 on nearly 0.4 million shares done between Rs.222.10 and Rs.223.20 contributing Rs.79.3 million to turnover.

Distilleries, where foreign interest continued, closed Rs.5.10 up at Rs.180.10 on slightly over 0.3 million shares done between Rs.175 and Rs.180.50 contributing the day's second highest turnover of Rs.56.3 million.

Commercial Bank (voting) continued to show volume closing flat at Rs.105 on over 0.3 million shares done between Rs.104.80 and Rs.105.90 generating a business volume of Rs.33.6 million.

ERI returned to the limelight with nearly 1.3 million shares traded between Rs.15.70 and Rs.16.10 gaining 10 cents to close at Rs.15.80 and contributing Rs.19.9 million to turnover. Textured Jersey also closed 20 cents up at Rs.9.10 on 2.2 million shares contributing Rs.19.9 million to turnover.

Brokers said that the JKH trades were in small parcels. They said that foreign interest in this stock continued with foreign buyers also looking for quantities in Distilleries.

Among the most traded blue chips were Sampath Bank (voting) closing Rs.1.70 up at Rs.204 on 84,773 shares, Central Finance closing 50 cents up at Rs.176 on 82,468 shares, Hayleys closing 10 cents down at Rs.299.90 on 47,602 shares, Aitken Spence up Rs.1.10 to close at Rs.121.70 on over 0.1 million shares and LMF up Rs.8 to Rs.108 on 78,503 shares.

Brokers said that LMF owns 12 percent of Distilleries and its upward momentum is influenced by Distilleries moving up in recent days.





Nobody's game

January 11, 2013, 8:09 pm

When I see the pathetic display of our beloved cricketers in Australia, as a Sri Lankan, I feel very sad, what else does one to do?

Since 1960 I enjoyed cricket as a spectator, because for me, it is a nectar. It provided lot of entertainment. As a matter of fact it's 'A gentlemen's game". Now it is nobody's game, only money matters nothing else.

A player is a human being though he is of a young age. He has limited strength, one cannot deny that. When we play cricket round the clock, where is the stamina to play cricket (to continue it for a longer period)?

Here, one factor is evident, "one day cricket" and "Twenty twenty cricket" have ruined the 'disciplined game, who else is to blame?

When we look at other games, they provide the idea that there are no new varieties involved. They play a single game. That is the end of it.

Here money plays a prominent role; one cannot deny that. All in all, dear cricket, I love you, my heart is burning. There are no more "Disciplined Cricketers". Only entertainers. Gentleman has stepped out of the pavilion, hereafter he will never visit it.





Bharti Airtel's Lankan unit completes four years

January 11, 2013, 7:17 pm

The latest and fifth entrant to Sri Lanka's telecom landscape, with a US$ 325 million investment, India's Bharti Airtel, with operations in 20 countries across Asia and Africa, completes four years of operations in Sri Lanka on January 12.

Suren Goonewardene, Chief Executive Officer/Managing Director, Bharti Airtel Lanka said, "As Airtel completes four years of operations, overcoming many challenges in Sri Lanka, it is encouraging to see the tremendous response our organization and our brand has received from customers and partners in this market. Despite intense competition, the organization has grown tremendously, resulting in over 40,000 touch points established across the island striving to satisfy the needs of all users within the Sri Lankan community. Our IDD, Data and Roaming strategies have been very effective in contributing towards the positive growth of Airtel Lanka. Going forward, with new attractions, innovative products and services, affordable prices and unbeatable customer experience we will continue to leverage our global learning towards further enhancing Airtel's market position in Sri Lanka. We are confident that Airtel is well placed to further capitalize on the huge telecom opportunity that this country offers."

By December 2012, Airtel Lanka announced the achievement of island-wide coverage provided by 1600 towers covering all 25 districts. Of these, over 650 towers offer 3G services to each region.

"Earlier in 2012, Airtel also completed a 6-month network upgrade in the Colombo and Greater Colombo areas which enabled it to deliver data services of unparalleled quality. The upgraded locations have the capability of delivering high speed HSPA+ at selected sites whilst carrier grade ISP solutions have been deployed to ensure consistent data speeds. In a strong endorsement of the Bharti Airtel service assurance, the operator was ranked first among all mobile broadband operators in the speed monitoring tests carried out by the Telecom Regulatory Commission in January, February and August respectively.

The Airtel Lanka offering of technology innovation and service excellence has seen rapid adoption rates among Sri Lankan mobile subscribers: in the space of just four years, the subscriber base has grown tremendously to 1.7 million active subscribers across all geographies in the country. With its suite of digital mobile services which includes voice telephony, voice mail, data services and GSM based services; the company is well on its way to achieving its vision of becoming the network of choice of Sri Lankans," the telco said.





SLSTOP going places

January 11, 2013, 7:19 pm

First we resisted it. Then we were skeptical about it. Finally we realized the impact it had made upon our daily lives. That is how most of us Sri Lankans reacted towards the introduction and use of Internet or World Wide Web during the early 90s. Most of us now become so accustomed to use of internet such that we find it extremely difficult to spend a day without access to internet. With the rapid globalization process taking place throughout the world, we simply can't survive without joining the rest of the world in embracing the positive changes that are being introduced by the use of Internet. Internet has generated many hitherto unknown business opportunities and redefined many existing business models. Take for example the communication industry. Consider the role of the postman a decade back. His role has now being cut down by 90% with the introduction of internet based e-mail services, services like Facebook and mobile phones. Telecommunication industry has reshaped our lives into greater heights with the advancement in internet based tools and technologies.

The beginning of the use of internet based services coincides with the use of commonly known email services in Sri Lanka. This was further popularized with various business organizations coming up with company web sites as marketing tools to promote their goods and services. This could be considered as the beginning on the internet based commercial application or e-commerce applications. However way back in 2009, the concept of e-commerce or e-marketing was not that popular among Sri Lankans. A group of young professionals took the responsibility and the risk of introducing an internet based commercial services to Sri Lanka. Lead by its Managing Director Ruchira Senanayake, this group established themselves as SLSTOP to introduce a novel professional approach in the globalizing world. We Sri Lankans like surprises. Imagine a surprise birthday present to a mother from her son living in overseas. Imagine the happiness in the mind of that mothers mind. This is a simple example to illustrate one of the services facilitated by SLSTOP. Now a days, internet based e-commerce services are popular in almost all over the world. In a common parlance this is known as e-marketing.









Tiger Woods playing Torrey Pines as Qatar event rejects fee

January 11, 2013, 8:31 pm

by Michael Buteau

Tiger Woods announced he will make his U.S. PGA Tour debut in two weeks at California's Torrey Pines golf course, as a European Tour event the same weekend said it wouldn't pay him a $3 million appearance fee.

Woods, 37, captured the U.S. Open at the La Jolla, California, course in 2008, defeating Rocco Mediate in a 19-hole playoff for his 14th and most recent major tournament victory.

Woods revealed his plans on his website on Thursday, the same day Qatar Golf Association President Hassan al Nuaimi told reporters that Woods was "not worth" the fee to play in the Qatar Masters, a European PGA Tour event scheduled for Jan. 23- 26, the Doha News reported. The Farmers Insurance Open at Torrey Pines runs Jan. 24-27.

Woods is playing in next week's HSBC Golf Championship event in Abu Dhabi, and was invited to play in the Qatar Masters for the first time. Woods finished third in last year's Abu Dhabi event, two shots behind winner Robert Rock.

Appearance fees are banned on the U.S. Tour but allowed at European Tour events.

Mark Steinberg, Woods's agent, said in an e-mail that the golfer "was never contemplating Qatar."

Now the No. 3 player in the Official World Golf Ranking, Woods has won the U.S. Tour event at Torrey Pines six times. He missed the 2012 event for the first time in his career when healthy.





PSUNU to other unions: Don't hold patients to ransom

January 11, 2013, 11:07 pm

By Don Asoka Wijewardena

Some trade unions were holding patients to ransom to win their demands but their efforts would be in vain, Public Service United Nurses Union(PSUNU), President Ven. Murutettuwe Ananda thera warned yesterday.

The launching of strikes should be the last resort to win the demands of trade unions. The present government was ready to listen to the trade unions. Likewise the Minister and the Director of Health Services were willing to discuss job-related problems of the unions, he said.

Murutettuwe Ananda thera was speaking at a function held to distribute musical instruments to the Post- Nursing Training School, Colombo on Wednesday 9.

He added that the Health Ministry trade unions had numerous problems needing solutions and they could be solved through discussions. Some problems could be resolved even through telephone discussions. But some trade unions were resorting drastic action to sabotage the activities of the government, he said.

Director General Health Services Dr. Palitha Maheepala said that the Sri Lanka's health service had gained international attention as it was on par with the other countries. Some western countries, including the USA, were interested in recruiting Sri Lankan nurses, but due to the chronic shortage of nurses, the country was unable to accede to their requests.





Misbah-ul-Haq to remain Pakistan's Test and ODI captain

January 11, 2013, 8:37 pm

Karachi: The Pakistan Cricket Board has decided to retain senior batsman Misbah-ul-Haq as captain for the Test and one-day series in the forthcoming tour of South Africa.

The 38-year-old has drawn flak for his below-par performances in one-day cricket including the recent tour of India. The PCB had removed him as captain of the Twenty20 squad last year for being a slow scorer.

But sources in the PCB told PTI that the national selectors were told by the Board that Misbah will continue as captain for both formats while Mohammad Hafeez has been retained as captain of the T20 squad.

Pakistan leaves on January 20 for South Africa to play three Tests, five one-dayers and two T20 matches.

"Board Chairman Zaka Ashraf is happy with the performance of Misbah and the way he led the team to the one-day series win in India recently," one source said.

"The positive report about Misbah is that despite his age, he is fit and brings about lot of confidence and discipline to the team with his presence and leadership qualities," the source said.

He said the Board had decided to continue with Misbah for the South African tour while Hafeez would be groomed to take over from him after the Champions Trophy in England this year.

Misbah has said after returning from India that he had no intentions to quit ODI cricket as he enjoys the format and is fit for it.

"There is a concept in Pakistan that someone of my age shouldn't be playing cricket at the top level. I disagree, I made my debut late and I believe as long as someone is fit and ready to perform at the highest level there is nothing wrong with him carrying on," Misbah said.

The national selectors have been told to finalise squads for the South African tour and submit them to the Board.

Sources close to the selectors said Asad Shafiq, after recovering from a injury, was certain to replace Umar Akmal in the middle order while Taufiq Umar would return as the opener for the Tests.





Ross Taylor hints at return for England series

Ross Taylor has indicated that he could be available for New Zealand's home series against England next month, his first comments on returning to the game since being stripped of the captaincy.

"All the best to the @BLACKCAPS for the second Test [against South Africa in Port Elizabeth]. Looking forward to working my way back for the home series against England," Taylor said on Twitter. "Back into training and it's going well. Can't wait to get out on the park with @CDStags on 24 January."

Central Districts, Taylor's domestic side, play a Plunket Shield match against Canterbury on January 24, two weeks before the first T20 international between New Zealand and England.

Taylor was removed from the New Zealand captaincy in all formats in December and replaced by Brendon McCullum, who had the backing of New Zealand coach, Mike Hesson. Taylor decided to take time off from the game because of the manner in which he was ousted, which led New Zealand Cricket to issue an apology for the breakdown in communication within the management.

Taylor has not played any matches - international or domestic - since New Zealand's tour of Sri Lanka, where they drew the Test series 1-1 in November. New Zealand are presently touring South Africa without Taylor. They lost the T20 series 2-1 and are trailing 1-0 in the Tests.









Chairman of the Sri Lanka Bureau of Foreign Employment (SLBFE) Amal Senalankadikara yesterday promised to provide assistance to uplift the living standards of Rizana Nafeek's family. Rizana was beheaded in the Saudi Capital of Riyadh on Wednesday (9).

He said that the External Affairs Ministry, Foreign Employment Promotion and Welfare Ministry and SLBFE would take care of her parents and would bring in some measures to compensate her loss.

Senalankadikara visited Rizana's family on Thursday and conveyed his condolences to them .

At the meeting with the Nafeek family, he explained the efforts President Mahinda

Rajapaksa took on behalf of the Government to get clemency for Rizana.

Rizana Nafeek was sentenced to death in 2007 by a Dawadmy court for allegedly murdering her Saudi employer's infant son while she was bottle feeding the four-month-old baby. Nafeek claimed the baby accidentally choked while the parents claimed she committed premeditated murder.

The housemaid, who was 17 at the time of the alleged crime, had gained employment in 2005 through an employment agency in Sri Lanka which falsified her age in documents to make it appear she was 23-years-old at that time.

The Sri Lankan government had arranged for an appeal against the death sentence with the assistance of the Asian Human Rights Organization based in Hong Kong, but the Superior Court of Saudi Arabia reconfirmed the death sentence in 2010. President Mahinda Rajapaksa along with several other worldwide organizations appealed to the Saudi King and the parents for clemency on behalf of Rizana on several occasions, even a few days before her execution.

Meanwhile, the Ministry of Construction, Housing and Common Amenities has also undertaken to build a permanent house for Rizana's family on the land they are presently living on. At present they are living in a makeshift wattle and daub structure.





'Masses are not asses'

January 11, 2013, 8:08 pm

Certainly the Lankan masses are not asses. They like a good laugh. The kings and queens of yore did maintain clowns and jesters in their courts! That is why the Parliamentary representative for Kelaniya is given a portfolio and kept near to humour the highly- placed. However, he did work to prevent the slaughter of innocent animals at a Hindu temple as gifts to the gods; they do feast on the flesh. Drug trafficking, murder and crime and land grabbing go on even in the USA that hopes to lead the world. Alcoholic beverages, cigarettes and marijuana are drugs that pacify the tired and disturbed mind.





Govt. has no option, but to act swiftly and decisively – Dullas

CJ impeachment

January 11, 2013, 11:30 pm

By Shamindra Ferdinando

Commenting on recent statements attributed to senior UN and EU officials, SLFP heavyweight Dullas Alahapperuma, MP, yesterday said that a section of the international community was playing politics with a purely domestic issue. He said that the government had no option but to proceed with the impeachment to prevent an unprecedented crisis.

The failure on the part of the government to act swiftly and decisively would have caused uncertainty and negated the post-war recovery process.

The Minister recalled that those opposed to impeachment of Chief Justice Dr. Shirani Bandaranayake had conveniently forgotten the high profile UNP attack on her.

Pradeep Kariyawasam, the then Chairman of the National Savings Bank (NSB) after the revelation of the latter's involvement in a questionable transaction involving the premier savings bank and TFC (The Finance Company)," the Youth Affairs and Skills Development Minister said.

He said the same groups vilified Gen. Fonseka worldwide while he was successfully prosecuting the war, but no sooner he developed a rift with the government at the end of the war, he became their darling. But when they realized he was no longer serving their petty interests and he was a man out for his own interests they ditched him in next to no time.

Responding to a query by The Island, National List MP Alahapperuma pointed out that UNP National Organizer, Daya Gamage had raised the issue at a luncheon meeting at the Norwegian ambassador's residence last June, in spite of President Mahinda Rajapaksa reversing the deal. Gamage went on the offensive, though Kariyawasam was no longer at the helm of the bank.

Gamage told the gathering that former Chairman of the NSB, Pradeep Kariyawasam, involved in the transaction, was none other than the husband of the incumbent Chief Justice, Shirani Bandaranaike. Gamage, whose wife, Anoma is a UNP National List MP, alleged that Sri Lanka hadn't been able to attract foreign direct investments in the absence of consistency and good governance.

Minister Alahapperuma asserted that both the UNP and the JVP never expected the government to investigate the NSB-TFC deal. Alahapepruma recalled UNP MP Dr. Harsha de Silva's declaration that if a proper investigation was not possible with disgraced former NSB Chairman's wife being the CJ, perhaps she should resign. In fact, Dr. Silva, in a statement issued on behalf of the UNP a few days after the controversial deal, referred to the then NSB Chairman being the beneficiary of the Rajapaksa government.

Minister Alahapperuma said that an Opposition protest over an alleged corrupt deal had now been transformed to an issue, which was affecting post-war political stability. While accusing the government of condoning corruption, the Opposition expressed concern over the independence of judiciary, the minister said. "That was the situation last November. Subsequently the issue was depicted as a confrontation between the executive and the judiciary."

The minister alleged that the CJ issue had been a rallying point for all those involved with former Army Commander Gen. Sarath Fonseka's presidential bid in Jan 2010. The same group, except Gen. Fonseka, had been at the forefront of the efforts to undermine the then Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa's presidential bid in 2005.





Hat-trick of run outs bring woe to Sri Lankans

January 11, 2013, 11:36 pm

Rex Clementine

reporting from Melbourne

The national cricket team's support staff currently consists of eight individuals and to that long list they may as well add a running between the wickets coach, a discipline where the Sri Lankans have been awful this summer here in Australia. The trend continued in yesterday's first ODI against Australia as Sri Lanka suffered a hat-trick of run outs, two of them in successive balls to suffer a 107 run defeat here at the MCG to concede an early lead in the five match series against what effectively is Australia's 'B' team.

The hosts have left out Michael Clarke, Mathew Wade, Shane Watson and David Warner among others for the first two games and Sri Lanka had a wonderful opportunity to take an early lead, but their horrendous tour continued and after being in Australia for five weeks, they are yet to record their first win in this country.

It was at the MCG Sri Lanka were thrashed by an innings an 201 runs inside three days in the Boxing Day Test, but they had won their last three ODIs here and with 28,000 spectators, most of them Sri Lankan fans, firmly behind them they had everything going for them.

Australia were set up by Philip Hughes, who become the first Australian to score a century on debut. Chasing a target of 306 runs, the tourists lost Upul Tharanga (1) and Mahela Jayawardene (5) cheaply, but a 94 run stand between Tillekeratne Dilshan and Dinesh Chandimal kept them interested before a succession of run outs.

Sri Lanka were progressing nicely at 111 for two at half way mark, but the run outs saw them slipping to 128 for five and with that the game too went away from them.

Dilshan pushed one to mid-off and set off for a single, but was run out by a direct hit by Usman Khawaja while Angelo Mathews fell for another direct hit, this time by Glen Maxwell, when he backed up too far at the non-striker's end. Lahiru Thirimanne was dismissed the next ball again by a smart work of fielding from Maxwell.

Chandimal was fighting a lone battle and he fell for 73 after Brad Haddin took a terrific diving catch. Sri Lanka were bowled out for 198 with ten overs to spare

It was the third wicket partnership worth 140 runs between captain George Bailey and Hughes that kept Australia going. Hughes became the eight batsman in the world to compile a hundred on debut and the third against Sri Lanka. He made 112 off 129 deliveries with 14 fours.

Bailey made 89 off 79 balls with eight fours and a six. David Hussey finished things off in style making an unbeaten 60 off 34 balls with six fours and a six.

Lasith Malinga fresh from his Big Bash League exploits where he finished as the highest wicket taker and most economical bowler went for 61 runs in his ten overs and managed just one wicket.





Azarenka, Serena Williams in same part of draw

January 11, 2013, 8:36 pm

by John Pye

MELBOURNE, Australia (AP) — Victoria Azarenka and Serena Williams are in the same half of the draw at the Australian Open, setting up the possibility of a semifinal match between the defending champion and the title favorite.

Top-ranked Azarenka has lost 11 of her 12 matches against Williams, who increased her career haul to 15 Grand Slam titles last year by winning at Wimbledon and the U.S. Open. Williams has won five Australian titles, more than any other woman in the Open era, and is in dominant form after winning 35 of her past 36 matches.

No. 2-ranked Maria Sharapova, the French Open champion, is on the other half of the draw with No. 4 Agnieszka Radwanska, No. 5 Angelique Kerber and No. 6 Li Na. She could meet Venus Williams in the third round.

Novak Djokovic's bid for a third consecutive Australia Open title got a boost when No. 2-ranked Roger Federer and U.S. Open champion Andy Murray both landed in the other half when the official draw was made Friday.

Top-ranked Djokovic will face Paul-Henri Mathieu in the first round and also has fifth-seeded Tomas Berdych in his quarter of the draw and fourth-seeded David Ferrer in his half.

Ferrer is the highest-ranked Spaniard in the tournament in the absence of 11-time major winner Rafael Nadal, who hasn't played on the tour since the middle of 2012 due to a left knee injury.

Federer will play Benoit Paire of France in the first round and has a potential third-round match against local hope Bernard Tomic. Federer, a four-time Australian Open winner, could face Murray in the semifinals.

Murray, who ended a 76-year drought for British men at Grand Slam events when he won the U.S. Open last year, will start his run against Robin Haase of the Netherlands and has a potential quarterfinal against sixth-seeded Juan Martin Del Potro, the 2009 U.S. Open champion.

On the women's side, Azarenka has a first-round match against Romania's Monica Niculescu and is in the same quarter as former No. 1-ranked Caroline Wozniacki and seventh-seeded Sara Errani.

Serena Williams will play Edina Gallovits-Hall of Romania in the first round and is in the same quarter as 2011 Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova and 19-year-old American Sloane Stephens, who is seeded 29th.

Kvitova has a tough opener against 2010 French Open champion Francesca Schiavone.





Training for Child and social protection officers in N & E

January 11, 2013, 11:09 pm

By Dilanthi Jayamanne

The Ministry of Child Development and Women's Affairs (MCDWA) will initiate a training programme to strengthen Child and Social Protection Officers in the North and East. The Spokesman for the Ministry of MCDWA said yesterday that the project would commence in March.

He said that the aim of the project was to enhance the capacity of skills capabilities of Child and Social Protection Officers to provide an environment of safety and security for the mental and physical well being of children. The project would upgrade officers' capabilities by providing new information on studies that had been conducted on subjects of child protection and development.

The training programme would be carried out in collaboration with the Sri Lanka Foundation Institute (SLFI) and UNICEF. The Child and Social Protection Officers work at grass root level having been appointed at a divisional secretariat level, the spokesman said.

Fielding questions, he said that Child and Social Protection officers ensured that children who had not completed their school education, due to various reasons, were re- instated in school, developing the economic standard of women, especially those who have been widowed or left by their husbands, providing counseling services for women and children and carrying out awareness programmes on protection of women and children.

He said the SLFI would coordinate the project providing required technical knowledge.

However the officer in Charge of Coordination could not be contacted for comment at the time of going to press.





FIFA prosecutor Garcia kept 'busier than expected'

January 11, 2013, 8:30 pm

by Graham Dunbar

ZURICH (AP) — FIFA prosecutor Michael Garcia has been kept busier than he expected trying to clean up world football — and his workload will probably increase after a whistleblower hotline opens this month.

Garcia told The Associated Press in an interview that FIFA investigations take "more of my time than I originally anticipated" since his appointment last July.

"I'm a busy man. It's five months in and I think where we are is a very good place," said Garcia, who completed his first case last month. FIFA President Sepp Blatter's former election rival, Mohamed bin Hammam, was banned for life over financial mismanagement at the Asian Football Confederation.

"Outside of FIFA, I'm happy with the fact that people more and more seem to be getting the sense that this is a place where at least you can raise something, you'll get a hearing, you'll be taken seriously," he said from a Zurich hotel after attending the FIFA player of the year ceremony.

After the hotline is launched, Garcia may need to call on more resources from the New York office of law firm Kirkland & Ellis at which he is a partner.

"I am going to have access directly to that data and there has been training for my folks to access that," he said.

The former United States Attorney, who prosecuted financial crimes on Wall Street, pledged last July to study all allegations from any source. He has powers granted under a FIFA Code of Ethics that was strengthened as part of Blatter's promised to improve the governing body's tattered image.

The old ethics system — seemingly disregarded by some FIFA ruling board members — could not cope with waves of bribery and corruption allegations linked to the 2018 and 2022 World Cup hosting votes, then Blatter's election contest with Bin Hammam.

FIFA's fiercest critics wanted Garcia, a former Interpol vice president and football outsider, to shake up FIFA's inner circle and scrutinize Qatar's successful 2022 bid.

"I have applied that open-door policy consistently from Day 1 and many people have taken advantage of it, both on the public side and inside football," he said. "You can really go where the cases take you."

Though the code stops him discussing ongoing work, Garcia said he has match-fixing allegations "on the radar screen," and suggested that FIFA's continental confederations — which closely guard their autonomy and privileges — could be in his sights.

Still, Garcia received flak that, by taking over the Asian body's bin Hammam probe, his independence was compromised by serving the FIFA president's vested interests. Garcia's case report detailing "repeated" financial conflicts of interest prompted bin Hammam to resign from football and triggered a life ban.

"That case speaks for itself. There is public record information on how it was resolved," Garcia said. "That investigation was done ... completely consistently with what I consider my independent jurisdiction and decision-making authority. There was never an issue to me any other way."

The American lawyer described it as "unfortunate" if one high-profile case made people think "nothing else is going on" in his FIFA work.

Building public trust in the integrity of FIFA judicial process is a theme stressed by Garcia, who praised his "top-notch" colleagues also appointed by FIFA to ensure independent oversight: Ethics court judge Joachim Eckert of Germany and compliance panel chairman Domenico Scala of Switzerland.

"I think if you look at the future of this process and Scala's work, that is the good news," Garcia said. "To me, instilling confidence in the new Code, and the new process for enforcing the Code, is more important than any case that either had been done, or will be done."

Here, Garcia see comparisons in working with "Wall Street" and "FIFA" — catch-all terms for what frustrates many people about perceived elite interests in the economy or football.

"I approach those two the same way: Are there bad actors? What are they doing? And how do you stop that, and send a message?" he said.

Garcia recalled that, while his past decisions might be criticized by the Wall Street Journal or New York Times, commentators respected the historical integrity of his office.

"We don't have that here. This is a very new enterprise" for FIFA, explained Garcia, who will surely be judged a success as much by securing convictions and sanctions as helping create an improved system to govern football.

After bin Hammam, two more continental presidents could have reason to fear Garcia's findings in a World Cup kickbacks case from the 1990s that Blatter steered his way.

South American leader Nicolas Leoz was identified in Swiss court papers for taking hundreds of thousands of dollars from now-defunct marketing agency ISL, and Issa Hayatou of Africa was already reprimanded by the International Olympic Committee for receiving 100,000 French francs (then $20,000) in cash from ISL.

Further action could follow a financial audit being completed by the New York-based CONCACAF body, governing football in North and Central America and the Caribbean. The same exercise in Asia showed how bin Hammam used AFC accounts and made deals with broadcasting partners worth hundreds of millions of dollars.

Some CONCACAF member countries demanded last May that Chuck Blazer, the most senior American official at FIFA, be investigated over his commissions from commercial deals which were signed off by disgraced former FIFA vice president Jack Warner.

Garcia acknowledged that the Ethics Code gives him power to "reach down into confederation levels and take cases. I have used that and I intend to if I think it's necessary. Basically, that is all I can say."

Amid all the negative lines of inquiry, Garcia points to one positive in the world of football — a word he has learned to use more often than soccer.

"Now you can turn on the TV (in the U.S.) and see soccer matches, which when I was growing up was unheard of. Now I pay more attention to and I try to learn more about it," he said. "Yes, we're looking at this docket of cases where people may have behaved badly. But there's a beauty to the game."





Jetwing Hotels unveils collection of luxury properties

January 11, 2013, 9:01 pm

Renowned the world over for the promise of true, traditional Sri Lankan hospitality complemented by elegant design and indulgent comfort, Jetwing Hotels now adds something different to the traditional resort mix – a highly unique and intimate collection of boutique villas and properties. Catering to the traveler that wishes the ultimate in privacy, or families that wish to spend quality vacation time together, each property is the complete experience.

Mosvold Villa by Jetwing leads this exquisite collection, a brand new property built by the beachfront of Ahangama. Famous the world over for its iconic stilt fishermen, Ahangama is a town that offers much to the discerning traveler. The boutique villa is perfect for romance, or a getaway from the worries of the everyday world. Featuring a pool that begs for an evening dip, and a poolside bar with restaurant upstairs, the 6 bedroom property offers luxury living in a simple atmosphere – elegant wood furnishings blending with white interiors and splashes of colour along with all the amenities you need. There are plenty of activities to keep anyone occupied, from snorkeling in the natural reef to long beach walks or excursions conducted by the nearby Jetwing Lighthouse.

Moving further to the small village of Kosgoda, situated halfway between Colombo and Galle, is a secret waiting to be discovered – Saffron & Blue by Jetwing, a holiday home which is unsurpassed in its design and beauty. On the shores of the beach, overlooking the Indian Ocean and only a few meters away from the famous Kosgoda Turtle Hatchery, Saffron & Blue by Jetwing is a 4 bedroom villa designed by Channa Daswatte – a student of the late, great Geoffrey Bawa. The property is delightfully and lovingly decorated and the prime feature of the villa are its 4 bedrooms, placed around a main living area. Each bedroom has its own personality and character, brought forth through varying hues of colour, art and antiques. Plenty of open spaces are available, for private reading, heart to heart conversations (or gossip!), along with a 40ft pool with a pool terrace. Chill, relax and unwind as the sun sets, with Saffron & Blue by Jetwing providing the perfect backdrop.

Overlooking the Indian Ocean and accompanied by a virgin stretch of beachfront is Villa 700; sure to attract families for a weekend away or an extended vacation. Situated in the charming village of Induruwa, the property is styled in a minimalist yet inviting manner, with an ambience to preserve harmony and exude calm.

With 3 bedrooms and a pool, Villa 700 provides the comforts necessary to unwind, and the base to embark on a journey of discovery. The famed turtle hatchery of Kosgoda isn't too far, along with the Bawa Trail – Geoffrey Bawa's Lunuganga and Bevis Bawa's Brief – are just a couple of the exciting attractions to be experienced in the area.

The other addition is Jetwing's latest acquisition, the Haridra Resort & Spa by Jetwing. An extremely breathtaking beachfront property near the town of Wadduwa and only an hour away from Colombo, the peaceful ambience of the resort is immediately felt on arrival. Bringing together a luxury stay of leisure and tranquility together with genuine Sri Lankan Ayurvedic healing, the Haridra Resort & Spa by Jetwing features 32 suites which have been designed with indulgence and freedom in mind.

All 32 suites overlook the Indian Ocean, and feature en-suite bathrooms along with private balconies. Cuisine is considered sacred at the property; with star class chefs cooking up dishes from a variety of cultures to complement long lazy days spent in the infinity swimming pool or traditional Ayurveda Spa.

"The latest additions to our ever growing collection of properties are definitely to be experienced, by individuals, couples, or families. We are focusing on those who wish a little bit of privacy, who feel the need to get away and just relax; to help them live exactly the way they deserve" said Ishanth Gunewardene, Head of Sales and Marketing for Jetwing. For more details on the properties, along with images, visit www.jetwinghotels.com.





Judges urged to boycott new CJ

January 11, 2013, 11:32 pm

A group of lawyers going under the banner 'Lawyers Collective' yesterday urged Judges of the Supreme Court to resist the government's move to remove Chief Justice Dr. Shirani Bandaranayake from office.

The following is the full text of the letter sent to all judges of the Supreme Court, which was released by the Office of TNA MP M. A. Sumanthiran yesterday: As Your Lordships and Ladyships are aware, the Supreme Court has on the 1st of January 2013 exercised its Constitutional Jurisdiction and interpreted the Constitution holding that a Select Committee appointed under Standing Order 78A of the Parliament, does not have the power to arrive at a finding against a Judge of a Superior Court in terms of Article 107(3) of the Constitution.

On the 3rd of January 2013 the Court of Appeal, exercising Writ jurisdiction under Article 140 of the Constitution, quashed the decision of the Parliamentary Select Committee finding the Chief Justice Dr. Shirani Bandaranayake guilty of three charges set out in the impeachment resolution submitted by 117 Members of Parliament.

In view of the interpretation given by Your Lordships' Court and the decision of the Court of Appeal, the attempt to remove the Chief Justice from office is without any legal basis and contrary to the Constitution and the law of the land.

We understand that despite the aforesaid interpretation and the judgment of the Court of Appeal, nevertheless the Parliament of Sri Lanka is debating the resolution of impeachment and seeking to submit an address of Parliament to the President calling for the removal of the Chief Justice.

We understand that there is a likelihood of such an address being followed by Her Ladyship the Chief Justice being illegally removed from office and being replaced with a new appointee, whose appointment is illegal and contrary to the Constitution of Sri Lanka and the very decisions of Your Lordships' Court. Such a person would be a usurper in the Office of Chief Justice.

As you are well aware you are obliged (as are we) to honour and follow the decisions of our courts whether we agree with it or not. Thus disagreement in other quarters is irrelevant.

In the aforesaid circumstances, at a time the Judiciary and the Bar of Sri Lanka are facing the gravest crisis in the history of its existence, we as members of the Bar feel it our bounden duty to call upon Your Lordships and Ladyships' to act to protect the independence of the judiciary which is an intangible heritage of the people of this country.

"Accordingly, we the undersigned earnestly request that the Judges of the Supreme Court should refuse to accept an appointment of Chief Justice (or as acting Chief Justice) or refuse to recognise any person appointed to the office of Chief Justice and refuse to sit with a person appointed as the Chief Justice as such an appointment would be contrary to the Constitution which Your Lordships and Ladyships and we as members of the Bar have sworn to uphold.

"We may add that Your Ladyships and Lordships are obliged to follow the decisions of our courts and that if Your Lordships or Ladyships refuse to abide by the rulings of the Supreme Court and Court of Appeal you cannot expect any other person to follow the orders of any of our courts.





The Centre for Policy Alternatives (CPA) vehemently condemned the resolution passed by Parliament yesterday to impeach Chief Justice Dr. Shirani Bandaranayake. This follows the CPA's statement issued on January 08, 2013 welcoming the judgment of the Court of Appeal and determination of the Supreme Court and calling for Parliament to comply with the law.

A spokesperson for the CPA said: "This unnecessary and regrettable move by the legislature today has deeply debilitating consequences for constitutional governance, and demonstrates the contempt in which basic principles of democracy and the rule of law are held in Sri Lanka today.

Notwithstanding this, CPA hopes that the constitutional crisis facing us may yet be addressed responsibly, with restraint and in adherence to the Constitution."





Vindya among Top 10

January 11, 2013, 10:54 pm

Miss Vindya Jayawardena Sri Lankan Medical student has become among the top Ten (10) at the Final MBBS Examination-2012 held by the University of Science and Technology at Chittagong, Bangladesh. She is the daughter of Dr. Jayalath Jayawardena MP, Deputy Secretary General of UNP and Mrs. Ujitha Jayawardena.





Karu J accuses govt. of unleashing goon squads on protesters

January 11, 2013, 11:10 pm

UNP MP Karu Jayasuriya yesterday accused the government of running goon squads. The former UNP deputy leader was commenting on Wednesday's attack on political activists protesting against the impeachment of Chief Justice, Dr. Shirani Bandaranayake.

The following is the full text a statement issued by MP Jayasuriya: "Again we are compelled to talk about the goons with political blessings because we are fast becoming a failed state and the rule of law in our motherland is crumbling down. Law of the jungle reigns supreme in place of law; power of the goons in place of discipline; injustice in place of justice; dictatorship in place of democracy, are being established. Right for dissent is being trampled down. The actions of the government prove that they want only their point of view to prevail in the country and they expect society as a whole to tow their line of thinking.

Closest example is the engagement of goons carrying poles to suppress the peaceful protest against the impeachment, by lawyers, representatives of political parties and civil activists, in Hultsdorf Colombo yesterday.

The print and electronic media showed groups of persons supporting the government for the impeachment motion, waiting near the Hultsdorf Courts premises, some of them were carrying poles and attacked their unarmed rivals in the presence of police officers who were deployed to protect peace and order.

This is not the first and last instance of such occurrences. When General Sarath Fonseka was in jail, goons attacked the peaceful protest held on Independence Day in the year 2011 by Members of Parliament and members of public and civil activists demanding the release of General Fonseka. This was also in the presence of Police Officers.

It is not that difficult to identify the political masters of these goons, considering the way the goons behaved ruthlessly in the presence of the Police Officers.

Having identified the goons who attacked the protest held on Independence Day in 2011, we tabled their names in Parliament. Although two years have elapsed no one has been arrested by the Police. Considering the above it is rather difficult to believe that law will be implemented against the goons who behaved indiscriminately near the Courts premises in Hultsdorf. We challenge the government which boasts frequently about establishing a democratic miraculous Sri Lanka, to take into custody the political goons who are powerful enough to behave freely as they fancy.

It is evident under these circumstances that the country is heading towards anarchy and this is turning into a social tragedy. The impeachment against the Chief Justice will end up in aggravating this situation. Finally the country will become a state without law and the law of the jungle will prevail. We urge the government not to be arrogant because of the two thirds majority they have but to take action to build the democratic and just society that people expected during the post war period. The government must realize that if they fail to do so it will lead to a grave social tragedy."





Rs.20mn up for grabs from Mobitel's Cash Bonanza

January 11, 2013, 8:50 pm

Mobitel introduced a sweepstake, Cash Bonanza. Following a similar mechanism to previously-held competitions, this one too rewards hundreds of subscribers for simply recharging or reloading their Mobitel pre-paid account, the telco said a statement.

Launched on the 1st of January 2013 and running till the 05th of May 2013, participants stand a chance to win up to a staggering Rs. 20 million worth of cash. Every reload of Rs.50 gives participants a chance to enter the draw. The higher the reload, the more chances participants have of winning. Prizes will be awarded weekly. Mobitel customers can dial #151# to find out the amount on offer for each respective week as well as the eligibility criteria.

Winners will be notified by Mobitel via Mobitel's customer care hotline 071 27 55 777 and in writing via post. Mobitel will not charge any additional fees for prizes presented to the winners.





