The Island-NewsWhile acknowledging the efforts of the security forces in capturing LTTE controlled areas in the North and East, the UNP yesterday denounced what it called attempts by the Army Commander Sarath Fonseka to ignore the contributions of the others over the last 25 years and seeking to claim it as his personal victory.

The UNP in a statement said, "It was announced that on January 2, 2009, the armed forces were able to gain entry into Kilinochchi once again. Although Kilinochchi Town was under the government's control for a long time it could not carry out its civil administration as it was unable to provide security. Now, as the Forces have entered Kilinochchi town, it is possible to provide that security.

"One thing that has become clear from this is that our Forces have been effective in their action. This is because of the experience and competence they have built up during the last 25 years on the performances of previous regimes, the training and experience gathered from the former commanders, chiefs and generals of the forces. Therefore, we cannot forget the services rendered by them and their contributions in the war effort."

"We salute all those in the forces who have made their sacrifices in the direction of the war including the maimed and others who are suffering in the battlefields. Due credit must be given to all members of the Forces, the Army, the Navy and the Air Force, the Police and all other security personnel. Special mention must be made of the Health services who have acted with dedication in giving the necessary medical assistance in the hour of need."

"People who helped in this success by providing bottles of water and medication to those on the field, the clergy of all communities, the incumbents of religious worship, Governmental and non Governmental Organizations, are all shareholders in this victory."

"However, the statement of Army Chief Sarath Fonseka, following the entry into Kilinochchi, ignoring the contributions made by all those mentioned above ,and seeking to claim it as his personal victory, is a matter for deep regret and merits nothing but denunciation."

"He was also trying to cover up his indiscretions in the battle field owing to his taking unilateral decisions resulting in unwarranted casualties, by saying that the LTTE got down arms during the ceasefire period."

"The army chief made this announcement before two government Ministers who participated in the ceasefire proposals. It is a matter for conjecture whether the Army Chief harbors a grudge against them to make such a statement. The UNP nevertheless deems it necessary that an answer must be given to this rash utterance of the Army Chief."

"The UNP categorically rejects this allegation. Even the Army Chief during that period 2004 -2005, who was better aware of the situation, did not make such an accusation. If the LTTE were to get down arms, it would have been used in the Eastern province. There were no conflicts arising in the province. Large numbers of armed forces personnel did not die or got maimed. The Thoppigala victory hero, Major General Parakrama Pannipitiya was unceremoniously evicted from his residence and was forced to seek legal redress through Courts. This is the factual position."

"This Army Chief who hurls empty allegations against others is the only army Chief who could not from 1983, for 25 years save the Army Headquarters from devastation by an intruding LTTE woman cadre. Surely, he cannot say she came through the Beira Lake. Need there be further explanation as to why he is seeking American citizenship. Besides, during the time the Wanni war was raging and soldiers were dying, this Chief spent his time in America."

"It is evident that arms supplies to the LTTE occurred during the period due to lapses when action was being taken to install a civil administration. Therefore, it is this Army Chief and present officers who are responsible. It is questionable whether The army chief's efforts are aimed at suppressing the truth."

"What we urge is not to politicize this war. In the Forces there are members belonging to all political parties. Hence, this victory belongs to all. It will therefore be a welcome gesture if the Army Chief makes a statement confirming this by thanking all those who have been a part of this victory."

"It is the hope of the UNP that the government will take expeditious action to restore civil administration in those areas now brought under its control, to ensure that the people can live in peace."



