OSRAM have introduced their latest innovations, the "Decopin lamp" and the "Optotronic OT RGB DMX dimmer" to the market. These innovations not only provide state-of the-art lighting solutions, but also establish OSRAM as the most technologically advanced lighting manufacturer in the world.

Decopin, is the name of a small lamp that demonstrates OSRAM's powers of innovation and its commitment to producing smaller and smaller light sources. This new development is a halogen reflector lamp for mains voltage. It can rightly claim to be the world's smallest lamp of its type. At the same time, it offers new opportunities for creative and attractive lighting solutions in a mini format. Its diameter of only 41.5mm and total weight of around 8.5g make this lamp so unusual. A special feature is its ultra-lightweight reflector made from high-tech aluminium, which is highly polished inside and matt outside.

This robust and durable halogen lamp is unbeatable for illuminating cupboards and work surfaces with directional light. With its simple G9 plug base system, ordinary light fittings can be transformed instantly into reflector spotlights. For designers, the compact dimensions and light weight offers a new freedom to create small stylish luminaries designs. This lamp is fully dimmable, has a power input of 40 Watts and an average life of 2000 hours.

The Optotronic OT RGB DMX dimmer has effectively allowed OSRAM to enter the world of DMX 3-channel dimmers for LED systems. Since DMX supports up to 512 individually addressable channels, the new dimmer lends itself particularly well to creating effect-oriented lighting in discotheques, theatres or concert halls, as well as to the large-area illumination of architecture. The new dimmer utilizes pulse width modulation (PWM) to permit individual color mixing of LED modules over the whole dimming range. Control is accomplished by means of a commercially available DMX controller. This meets the requirements of protection class II (protective insulation) and can be used indoors and outdoors in temperatures of -20 to 50 centigrade.

OSRAM is one of the two largest lighting manufacturers in the world. Light from OSRAM shines in about 150 countries. With sales outside Germany accounting for 88 % of total turnover and a sales presence on every continent, OSRAM is a true global player. This global giant has its headquarters in Munich and employs more than 41.000 people throughout the world. In the 2007 fiscal year (to the end of September) sales amounted to 4.7 billion euros. OSRAM has 48 factories in 17 countries.

OSRAM is one the many first-in-class brands represented by Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC (DIMO). DIMO is one of the pioneers in the engineering discipline in Sri Lanka and represent the worlds best engineered brands such as Mercedes-Benz, Siemens, Bosch, Michelin, Jeep, Chrysler, Komatsu, TATA, MRF, Mahindra Tractors, Zeiss, MTU etc. All these are brought to the doorsteps of the customer "with DIMO care".





