Breaking records and losing them is all part of the gamebyTrevor Chesterfield

World records are there to be passed around among the icons of the game.

It has always been the case, Yahaluweni. Unfortunately, some names are long remembered because of their greatness and ability to be different.

Sachin Tendulkar and Adam Gilchrist are holders of a couple of such records that suggest they have ventured into a zone that will forever remain intact. Well . . . that is one myopic way of looking at it.

Gilchrist, who poached the record from Mark Boucher, will lose it again to the East London-born Boucher when South Africa tour Bangladesh and then go on to India. In a matter of five Tests on that two-nation tour, the Safs gloveman should take the record out of reach for a while.

Gilchrist is going to be remembered for his batting as much as his glovework, as was Denis Lindsay. And there is a name that none will recall too quickly. Of how in 1966/67 he scored 606 Test runs against Bobby Simpson's side and held onto a then record-equalling six catches in an innings in the opening game of that series. Lindsay was a swashbuckling prototype Gilly decades before the Australian arrived; he slapped the ball around with some impressive cavalier innings as well as centuries. A second innings effort of 182 against Simpson's side in the opening Test of that series pulverised the Aussie bowling attack. It was a matter of pygmies bowling to a giant, although Dave Renneberg, the victim of much of that run-scoring carnage was a tall fellah, too. Lindsay ended that series with a then record 24 catches.

Yet, modern media, with their hype and eagerness to catch public attention (and sell papers), devise all types of imagery that suggests finale to a career or phase of a player's life.

In the case of Tendulkar, when he surpassed Sunil Gavaskar's record in December 2005, it was a touch bemusing how the Indian media behaved over that event. The thirty-fifth century came against Sri Lanka at a chilly windswept Ferozshah Kotla in one of my favourite cities, New Delhi, and reading the papers the next day suggestions were that he has achieved the final frontier were a tad over-simplifying his singular outstanding act of setting a world record in Test centuries.

It was too jingoistic for my tastes. It left open the question of whether there is nothing else to achieve. It became a matter of saying that having reached one pinnacle that he is about to quit as there are no further records to set.

In fact, there was at that crowded conference the impression of how the India media was passing around a begging bowl and hoping he would retire. This is where all this 'final frontier' comment becomes so cockeyed.

It made me wonder then why such metaphors are needed when the man, then thirty-two, surely has a few more records to set – or, in the vernacular of one popular TV space programme 'Go where no one has gone before'.

First there is the record number of Test runs and extending his list of centuries that will set challenges to current and future Test batsmen. That is surely the one record he would want to improve on while helping India win Tests.

As it was, seated at that organised chaos that was the media conference after the big day in December 2005, it was a privilege to be able to watch him in action behind the microphone, carefully fielding questions as though he was swatting a Shane Warne flipper.

There were the chirpy comments and the sentimental moments as well, and that is good as it showed the quiet demeanour of the man; a gentle nature that is part of his off-field psyche. Opposing bowlers and fieldsmen though see a different Tendulkar.

He is the committed run-maker, the calculator churning out runs with deft and classic touches. Unlike Sir Donald Bradman, Tendulkar has done it in all parts of the globe. For those interested in facts, The Don's Test performances were in only Australia and England; he ducked a tour of South Africa in the mid 1930s and New Zealand immediately after World War 2.

The only time he has played in this part of the world was in Colombo and eighteen years apart in 1930 and again in 1948 while he also played in the United States and Canada (1931/32) as part of an extended honeymoon with Jessie.

Milestones though are always going to fall and records are going to be set, some are going to take a while to beat. It took some years for Tendulkar to beat Gavaskar's record. It has taken more than two years to add four more – two on this tour – to fingertip touch the next effort: forty centuries, which could well come against South Africa when that tour takes place in March and April. The Tests are in Chennai, Ahmedabad and Kanpur and the weather will be a little warmer, although smoke-laden dusty Kanpur is not a favourite Indian venue of mine.

By then India will have returned from their Commonwealth Bank triangular series, the last of its kind as public tastes and the moguls who run their TV empires change. It is a series in which Sri Lanka are hoping, as Mahela Jayawardene explains to a forgetful public, capitalise on what the team learnt from the two-match Test tour.

All this, of course conjures any number of images; of how this dinosaur is about to become another relic that has lost its ability to attract attention when two other siblings (India and Sri Lanka in this case) play the same genre (limited overs internationals) before sparse support. They don't go along to watch the game for the entertainment value or appreciate the skills of the players.

That has become old fashioned. Unless there is aggro and verbal fisticuffs flying, it is tame. Or the no-name brand variety that is unfairly associated with provincial, state or the county level of the game. Unfairly associated because there are good quality skills on display and watching such players in action still creates an interest.

Already one of my favourite modern players, young Sreesanth, has stirred the Australian ego and cheekily suggested how the Australians should be scared as he is coming. Nothing wrong with a bit of pre-tournament psychology; get in while you can.

Sure, it's known that Brett Lee is one of neo-realist brigade who enjoy occasional indulgences in fist-pumping gee-ups; it's why he gets to work up a fair speed and a tune or two, on his guitar as opposed to playing the more difficult sitar.

Brad (or is that bragging) Hogg though is the geek who serves up lollipops for slogsweep shots. There is nothing better these days than to see his variety of junk food disappear over cow corner into the gutter.

Anyway, with a nose that big, Hogg's post-nasal drip would be working overtime. Anyone who regards himself a frontline spinner and has a Test average of 55 plus needs to be asked the question or two of whether he regards himself as a serious player and not making up the numbers or whether he prefers the limited overs stuff where he gets to bowl ten overs.

He couldn't do much either about the pain inflicted on his figures or mental approach by Tendulkar's bat. His style of delivery, with the sobriquet of Chinaman, is not ammunition likely to spook the batsman's sleeping hours. It is about as effective as the length of a waterpistol that's lost its power as well as aim: soggy and useless, real slog stuff.

Hogg's tenure in the side explains one thing, Australia are scraping the bottom of a barrel in their search for a genuine Shane Warne replacement.

Why, Warne you could admire, if only for the right reasons: his bowling skills and ability to conjure wickets rather than his scowling looks, handphone text message stories and tabloid off-field behaviour hype. For Hogg all you need do is ask the selectors, led by happy hooker Andrew Hilditch, what is he doing in the side if not making up the numbers? That is if you check his bowling average.

Hilditch was a sucker for the hook and Richard Hadlee set him up so nicely in what was his last Test in Brisbane in 1984/85 that it took him a long time for the recovery to take place. New Zealand gave the Aussies a good black eye or two when Hadlee was around; the Kiwis won that series 2-1 and the Aussies howled into their Bondi beach towels at the result of their trans-Tasman cousins giving them a taste of defeat.

Yet the irony of India's victory at Perth and the Anil Kumble leadership story has been well camouflaged by the selectors who years ago opposed John Wright when asked, who offered his views on Indian captaincy. It was at a meeting handled by selection convener Kiran More who slapped down Wright's pragmatic approach.

Kiwis are not into the sort of sycophant politics that run Asian sport. Good Kiwis are inclined to be upfront and give forthright opinions that often tread on the toes of the selection/administrative mafia that wheel and deal their way through one muddled hidebound miscalculation after another.

A practical man, Wright in good forthright vernacular when asked gave an opinion that Kumble was the ideal candidate at captain. It horrified More and his selection troupe. Their view was that India couldn't be captained by someone who wouldn't have the support of the senior players.

Wright didn't get all he wanted, but what he did do was leave a legacy and John Buchanan, quick to spot the thinkers in any side, asked Wright why wasn't Kumble India's captain. The answer lay with the Indian selectors and the policy that infuriated the Kiwi.





