Speaker W. J. M. Lokubandara yesterday (20) said he would inform the House today (21) whether the UNP sponsored No-faith motion against the Government had lapsed or not.

Answering a query raised by opposition MPs as to why the motion had been omitted from the Order Book, the Speaker said that he had consulted the Secretary General of Parliament in this regard and would give a detailed statement today.

Chief Opposition Whip Joseph Michael Perera said that the motion had been dropped from the Order

Book without the Speaker being informed. The Secretary General of Parliament had been replaced every two weeks with the intention of controlling Parliament according to the whims and fancies of the President and the Government, he said.

Leader of the Opposition Ranil Wickremesinghe said Parliament had been taken under control of the President through the Secretary General. The Speaker has to follow and act according to the orders of the Secretary General, and that was how the motion had been removed from the Order Book, he said.

"The House decides what it does and does not, not outside forces. The Speaker had been vested with powers to decide. We never mentioned that we would revoke or withdraw the motion. The day before the motion on the government's corrupt deals on the oil Hedging deal was to be taken for debate, the editor of the Sunday Leader Lasantha Wickrematunga was killed. It was Lasantha, who exposed this deal. We were protesting against the killing. How can you say that the motion lapsed while we were protesting the assassination? We have a suspicion that the assassination was connected to the No-faith Motion," he said.

Chief Government Whip Urban Development and Sacred Area Development Minister Dinesh Gunawardene said "A no-faith motion is brought with the intention of bringing trouble to the government. It is up to the Opposition to practice their right. It was included in the Order Book and when the Speaker called for it, the Chief Opposition Whip told the House that they would not move the motion. Therefore, it lapsed. We know that the Secretary General is an impartial official who does his job without wearing coloured glasses."

UNP Kandy District MP, Lakshman Kiriella said, "According to the clause number 23.6 of the Standing Orders the Member who proposed the motion must inform the Secretary General in writing that he withdraws the motion. No such thing happened. Thus, the motion should be mentioned in the Order Book."

Speaker Lokubandara: "I have already inquired from the Secretary General about the Omission of the motion from the Order Book. He gave me a report on how Parliaments in Commonwealth countries, such as in Great Britain and India have acted on such situations. We have to respect these conventions. I'll go through the report and inform the House of my decision tomorrow."





