Kumar Sangakkara (L), was the highest run getter in the inter-provincial cricket tournament, while Thilina Thushara was the highest wicket taker.

It was a revival of an old tournament. The only domestic competition where top Sri Lanka cricketers who have earned a big name as international cricket 'stars' mingle with the lesser important 'rustic' club cricketers on the playing field. Did the event fulfill the objectives its organisers, Sri Lanka Cricket, had in reviving it nearly three years after it took control of the administration of cricket in Sri Lanka?

As cricket became highly attracted by the international media, especially the television and the internet, global attention has always been there for the international game. Media coverage and the resultant monetary support have been in abundance in the international arena while the domestic competitions, mainly in countries like Sri Lanka, have suffered immensely.

Yawing gap between club and National team

The performance level, the crowd reaction and the financial benefits have been vastly different in the international game and the domestic game. The gap between the international vs. domestic has been yawningly widening and it affected the up-and-coming player.

In the mean time, such scenario created an unnecessary greed for national level representation. Described through a cinematic analogy from the 1970s, playing club cricket let you be one Amarasiri Kalangsooriya whereas playing for Sri Lanka will make you another Shahrukh Khan! The plight of this situation is that the undying hunger for money, nakedly for money, became an overt characteristic of the national cricketers.

The Inter-Provincial Tourney, in such a backdrop, provided a forum for over fifty top local domestic players to have a rare shoulder-to-shoulder experience with their idols, role-models and beyond that, to prove them how capable you are and how qualified you are to play in the biggest league when your day comes.

In fact, some of the players like Chamara Kapugedera, Dilruwan Perera, Chanaka Welegedara and Ishara Amerainghe made the tournament an opportunity to enhance their stakes to enter or to confirm their places in the Sri Lanka team before the forthcoming Australia tour. As the above players were named in the national side days after the completion of the Inter-Provincial Tourney, Mahela Udawatte and Thilan Thushara were named standbys for the tour and are likely to have benefited by their fine performance in the tourney that has earned the attention of the national selectors.

Good interest

The top national cricketers, starting form Captain Mahela Jayawardene to Kumar Sangakkara, former Captain Sanath Jayasuriya to Muttiah Muralitharan, Chaminda Vaas to Tillakaratne Dilshan, to Farveez Maharoof to Upul Tharanga, all these players represented their respective Provinces in this significant tournament. There were 75 players featuring in five Provincial teams, Basnahira North, Basnahira South, Wayamba, Kandurata and Ruhuna meaning there were 59 key national and club level cricketers playing alongside the 16 of the present SLC contracted players. A rare occurrence in deed.

The interest shown by national players like Jayawardene, Sangakkara, Vaas, Maharoof and Dilshan for their participation in the tournament should be appreciated. Their performance in this Inter-Provincial Tourney wouldn't have made any difference to their current positions in the national side, yet they never seemed to lack the thirst to do their best.

Public response

How can a good crowd attendance be expected when most of the matches were telecast live on national TV? It was reported, though, that a sizeable crowd was present at Welagedara and at Galle to see some of the big cricket names in action. But, the days are different.

Until the '80s, if at least a few national cricketers came to play in any of the outstations, there would have been absolute pandemonium! Grounds were surely packed. Nowadays, of course, the charisma of the national cricketers is likely to have gone for a six. Players too have destroyed their reputation, by appearing in numerous commercials to promote various commodities ranging from hand phones, milk powder to mosquito coils.

And the spectators aren't identifying themselves these days as supporters of such and such club or province. Such unity in division cannot be found these days. Such a set up would have attracted a big gathering for any domestic encounter. The SSC vs. Bloomfield match those days was as popular and entertaining as a Sri Lanka vs. Australia match, until the mid '80s.

Other Provinces?

The fact that there were only five Provinces in this main domestic Limited-overs Tourney is indicative of the fact that there are four other provinces that are getting away from cricket, the 'unofficial' national sport of the island. Even if we forget the North-East war and the ethnic tensions there, provinces like North-Central, Uva and Sabaragamuwa could be in contention. Isn't there talent oozing in those areas? The structure of the Inter-Provincial Tourney this season means that the game is popular, while at the same time, unpopular too.

Still the game is played in Colombo and its immediate suburbs like Mount Lavinia, Moratuwa, Maharagama, Nugegoda, Panadura Kalutara, Ambalangoda, Galle, Matara, Kegalle, Kandy, Kurunegala, Negombo, Chilaw, Ragama, etc.

The present squad for the forthcoming Under-19 World Cup shows this fact most glaringly. There is only a single outstation player in the squad. All others are from prominent and elitist urban schools. We say we made a revolution in player-representation after our much-hyped World Cup win in 1996. The Roy-Thomian era is over, we assume. Have we seen the real era heralding where villagers, raw outstation players come and play for the country after maturity and good nurturing? A long way to go, it seems.

Results in Brief

1. Wayamba bt Basnahira South by 127 runs at RPS on Dec 29, 2007

2. Basnahira North bt Ruhuna by 7 wkts at Galle on Dec 30

3. Kandurata bt Basnahira South by 5 wkts at SSC on Jan 2, 2008

4. Basnahira North bt Wayamba by 100 runs at RPS on Jan 2

5. Wayamba bt Ruhuna by 39 runs at Kurunegala on Jan 5

6. Kandurata bt Basnahira North by 192 runs at RPS on Jan 5

7. Basnahira South bt Basnahira North by 6 wkts (D/L Method) at SSC on Jan 8





