To query whether the increasing dominance of Twenty20 is a good or bad thing for cricket is pointless, rather like ruminating on whether it is good or bad to grow old. It is going to happen; get over it. Get over it quickly because it is happening right now. Had you been in India last week, you could not have avoided the issue: every day the Indian Cricket League, India's domestic Twenty20 competition, was front-page news, and this despite the national team's resurgence in Australia and another century from the game's greatest current player, Sachin Tendulkar.

This was the week when the scale of things to come hit home. Firstly, the 10-year global television rights to the Indian Premier League were sold for over $1 billion (£510 million). Then, on Friday, the biggest franchise auction in domestic sport's history saw a further $723 million change hands for the eight franchises on offer. It was said after the Ashes victory of 2005 that cricket was the new football; well, the IPL is cricket's version of football's Premier League, and the consequences, in terms of the finances and structure of the world game, are likely to be far-reaching.

Over in the West, meanwhile, the Texan billionaire, Allen Stanford has just spent $3.5 million in a town called Fort Collins, Colorado, to promote his second Caribbean Twenty20 extravaganza, which gets under way this week. His is more of a social and marketing experiment; by targeting a specific area and making Fort Collins the only place in America where his tournament can be seen on cable TV, Stanford is the latest to attempt to crack the American market.

India is where the action is, though. With big business, sport and a dash of Bollywood thrown into the pot, the IPL has had the most glamorous and successful start. Each franchise was put up for auction on Thursday; each had a base price tag of $50 million. In the end, the cheapest, Jaipur, went for $17 million more than that and the most expensive, Mumbai, was sold for more than double the initial estimate. India's most valuable business, Reliance Industries, picked up Mumbai; one of Bollywood's biggest stars, Shah Rukh Khan, fronts the Kolkata franchise, and five icons of Indian cricket have already been accounted for. It is a heady mix.

The tournament is to be played in April/May, and now the owners of the franchises must employ coaches before a further auction takes place for players drawn from a list of 88 Indian and foreign cricketers. As many as eight internationals can be purchased for a squad of 16 players, though only four are eligible for any one match.

Because of the calendar clash with English domestic cricket, not one English player is on that list. There is an English link, however, with the IPL, and it comes in the form of one of the new franchise owners. Emerging Media, who picked up the Jaipur franchise, are run by an Indian-born but London-based businessman called Manoj Badale and, with the failure of Deutsche Bank to secure a franchise, Badale's EM (he is joined by Lachlan Murdoch and other investors) became the only non-Indian business to bid successfully.

Speaking to me on Friday from Mumbai, he outlined the economics of the deal. As well as his initial outlay for the franchise, and running costs, he must now employ a coach, bid for players and rent the ground in Jaipur for a two-month period. In return his consortium receive 10 per cent of 80 per cent of the television revenue, an equal share of the sponsorship income (a global sponsor is due to be announced next week) and any further revenue should his team make it through to the international club tournament in October, when the best two teams from England, Australia, India and South Africa will play off. He expects to make a 3-5 year return on his investment.

If Badale is the only visible English link so far with the IPL, it is difficult to see how, ultimately, English cricket can insulate itself from these winds of change. Not that the ECB have taken a stand-offish view to the IPL at all: this is an ICC-backed event with the nod of approval having been given by all the major Test-playing nations, unlike the rival Indian Twenty20 operation, the Indian Cricket League, which continues to have pariah status. But, given the monies being banded about for such a short span of work, it won't be long before England's players start looking for a slice of the pie.

At the moment, the threat to the availability of England players because of the IPL is non-existent. England players earn well (Shane Bond's current dispute with New Zealand suggests not every country can be as sanguine as England) and would be foolish to jeopardise those earnings. But one could easily envisage a situation where an ageing or frequently injured player decides the offer is just too good to turn down as uncertainty over his international career increases. Andrew Flintoff, for example, is the only England player to have been covertly tapped up so far. It might not take too many further ankle injuries for him to decide a bucketful of money for eight weeks' work is less hassle than repeated injections and rehab.

Further down the line, English county cricket may find itself threatened and the ECB, by sanctioning the IPL, may not so much have kept the barbarians at the gates, as let them through the front door. If the franchise model expands, as is the hope in India, then there will be a limit to how far a market can serve two masters. Even in India, a much bigger market for cricket, there will be a potential conflict between the new and the old. No prizes for guessing where a young, hip Calcuttan businessman will want to spend his company's dosh - and it's not with the antiquated Bengal Cricket Association. Shah Rukh Khan's Kolkata Red Chillies has far more appeal.

Such a potential conflict must be a worry for English cricket's traditional power bases. To give one example: the ICL, which completed its inaugural tournament a month ago, has now announced its 2008 schedule, which includes another shindig in April and May. Paul Nixon, Chris Read and Stuart Law all played in the inaugural tournament and are still contracted. Where do their priorities lie? With the ICL or a pre-season tour with their county?

With rupees swirling around like confetti, private equity now stalking the game, agents desperate not to miss out on the best deals for their clients, and clients wondering which particular horse to back, cricket is entering a new paradigm, in which rupees and the free market are kings and players and entrepreneurs are the beneficiaries. As developments moved on apace, England left for a quaint tour of New Zealand yesterday. (The Telegraph)





