Kevin Pietersen has been cleared of going public in his row with Peter Moores by a senior member of the England and Wales Cricket Board - and backed to play a key role in the national team's future, cricket365.com reported on its web site on Sunday.

Pietersen resigned as captain this week, while coach Moores was sacked, after the breakdown in their relationship became public knowledge.

Andrew Strauss has since been appointed as skipper, and Pietersen has vowed to continue playing for England despite his effective demotion.

ECB vice-chairman Dennis Amiss is a member of the management board which agreed to Moores' and Pietersen's departures and he insists the English game's governing body were left with little option after the pair's row was made public, the report added.

However, he exonerated Pietersen of any blame for the leak.

"Once the information was in the public domain that Kevin Pietersen didn't want Peter Moores as his coach, it was always going to be impossible to resolve amicably - the ECB board was put in an impossible position," Amiss was quoted as having told BBC Radio Five Live's Sportsweek programme.

"We don't believe Kevin Pietersen leaked the information, we understand his frustration at it being leaked by other parties," Amiss was further quoted as having said.

Amiss confirmed Pietersen had spoken of quitting in the immediate aftermath of the second Test in India last month - which had sealed England's 1-0 series defeat - before agreeing to consider his position on a recent holiday in his homeland.

"We wanted him to go away and think about it while he was in South Africa," Amiss said. "We wanted to resolve the situation as quickly as possible."

Despite England's mediocre results since Moores' appointment in April 2007, Amiss revealed his sacking "wasn't on the agenda" until the row with Pietersen erupted.

But despite his part in the coach's downfall, Amiss insists the batsman's future with England remains bright.

"It was felt that we wanted a clean piece of paper, we wanted to rebuild and we wanted a completely unified team," he said.

"And the board wanted that as well, especially with all the important cricket we've got coming up.

"Kevin is very much part of the future. He's offered Andrew Strauss his backing, he hopes he will regain the England captaincy.

"He's got this will, this desire to do well in international cricket."

Amiss added: "We want to try to move forward, go into a new era, with a new captain and a new coach, and play some positive cricket because everybody wants England to be successful."

Former captain Mike Gatting also absolved Pietersen of any blame over the affair and claimed his problems with Moores may have been surmountable had they remained private.

"KP was asked to write his future plans... the coach is a crucial man and if he felt he wasn't right, then fine," Gatting said.

"Kevin's got to put down what he thinks is best for English cricket and that's what he was asked to do. But I think they've got to try to keep that quiet - it's a shame it all came out in the press."

England depart for their tour of the Caribbean in little over a week and West Indies legend Sir Viv Richard believes the recent furore can only benefit the hosts in their four-Test series.

"I was amazed and it's a huge loss to them, I believe," he said of Pietersen's stepping down as skipper.

"Kevin Pietersen started very well as captain and brought some positive signs to the table.

"It couldn't be better for the West Indies team. I believe we have the talent to do it (win the series)."





