The tri-series has moved on the expected lines as far as the results are concerned. India and Sri Lanka have knocked hosts Bangladesh out to put a battle royale on the cards. The finale will also mark a record 121st One-day international between the two neighbours, bettering the 120 matches played between Australia and West Indies.

After losing the bilateral series in India, the Lankans would be aiming for a sweet revenge on their opponents. Both teams have played each other so often off late that the players know each other's strengths and weaknesses very well. The final of the tri-series hence promises to be a hardly fought thriller.

After a bit of flutter in the first match, Dhoni's men have managed to find their winning ways back with three consecutive wins in the series under their belt.

The Men in Blue would want to stretch their winning streak and take a step forward to toppling Australia from the top ODI spot. And they have enough fire-power to go about the business.

India's batting has blossomed admirably, mainly due to the efforts of the middle order batsmen. Virat Kohli has been a revelation with 273 runs – highest in the series. He would surely want to make the most of his purple patch with a big score in the game that matters the most.

With Virender Sehwag coming back fresh after a good break and Gautam Gambhir getting back among runs in the last two games, the top order too is due to fire.

What would make the Indian skipper happiest going into the final is the improved performance from his bowlers and fielders in the last two games. The bowling was disciplined, the catches were held and the ground fielding too was excellent. Dhoni will expect the boys to keep the high spirits going.

Death bowling, however, is a concern that needs to be readdressed after the Indians conceded 95 runs in the last 10 overs against Bangladesh. With the return of experienced Harbhajan Singh and Zaheer Khan, things are only expected to improve for India.

While Amit Mishra is likely to make way for his senior spin partner, it will be interesting to see who at whose expense Zaheer comes in. Young Sudeep Tyagi has been impressive in the two games he's played, while Sreesanth, with his immense seaming ability can't be easily left out for being a touch expensive. We'll wait and see who gets the captain's nod.

Sri Lanka

Having brought back to the earth by India after winning convincingly in their first three games of the series, Kumar Sangakkara's men will come back hard on the big occasion.

With openers Tillakaratne Dilshan and Upul Tharanga in sizzling form and skipper Sangakkara in sublime touch, the Lankan top-order looks both dangerous and solid. It's the middle order led by Mahela Jayawardene that needs to fire.

The rookie bowlers have stood up beautifully in the absence of the experienced campaigners and Lanka can take a lot of heart from that. While Thissara Perera has been able to trouble the batsmen regularly, tall off-spinner Suraj Randiv has bowled with guile.

But the inexperience was exposed bitterly when they had to bowl in the unfavourable dew-filled conditions. If Sangakkara's amazing luck with the toss runs out on Wednesday, the islanders would require a very special performance with the ball to contain the in-form Indian batting line-up.





