Tamils are subjected to indiscriminate arrests and other forms of harassments including murders and abductions which have to be brought to the notice of all those concerned, said the All Ceylon Hindu Congress at its annual general meeting held recently at the Saraswathy Hall Bambalapitiya

Being a consortium of Hindu Associations and Trusts in Sri Lanka engaged in humanitarian services on a non-political basis we are bound to continue to be the voice of the Hindus of this country.

We are duty bound to issue this public appeal in view of the untold hardship experienced by the Tamil people of this county, most of whom are Hindus and living not only in the Northern and Eastern Provinces but also in the Hill country and other parts of Southern Sri Lanka.

All Ceylon Hindu Congress is a Federation of Hindu Institutions in this country. What was foremost in our minds when we assembled in Colombo today from various parts of the country for the Annual General Meeting of the All Ceylon Hindu Congress was the sufferings of our brothers and sisters who are victims of the war and the violence and are as a result thereof affected by hunger and other unfortunate consequences. Bombings, shelling, various other acts of was, abductions and other acts violating human rights have placed our people in a frightful era. In fact some of the delegates from the Congress' Member Associations were prevented from attending this Annual General Meeting because of the lack of the necessary transport facilities and restrictions on their movements.

We urge that the sufferings of our brothers and sisters should be brought to an end forthwith by immediate cessation of all military action and acts of violence. We wish to emphasis that the suffering of the people should be approached on a Humanitarians Basis.

The Ceasefire Agreement must be fully implemented and the A9 and A15 routes should be opened immediately.

We urge that peace talks should commence without any deal to find an everlasting reasonable political solution to satisfy the aspirations of the Tamil speaking people. War or any form of military action will not restore peace in this country.

Without continuing to ignore that people or the Northern and Eastern Provinces the Government is bound to and should immediately provide all their urgent requirements including food items and medical requirements and to arrange educational and other essential facilities to those people. For that purpose the A9 ROUTE SHOULD BE OPENED. Limited facilities now made available to them is a blatant violation of their basic fundamental rights. The Government is duty bound to give them the right to enjoy all rights facilities and amenities enjoyed by the people of the other parts of the country.

While we welcome the interests shown by India, Norway and others of the International Community in the problems of these people, we expect them to act swiftly taking more and active interests and to ensure that these people are relieved from the present sufferings forever.

We again appeal to all the Hindu Institutions spread globally to take more interests in the problems of our brothers and sisters and help them. We are constrained to point out that the interests now shown by them in the welfare off our people is not sufficient.





