Hurricane Kehel and mesmerizing Daya

January 30, 2014, 10:57 pm

by Russell Palipane

Of the two - meaning T. B. Kehhelgamuwa and Daya Sahabandu - the more flamboyant was TBK, while Sahabandu, a shy, quite type was equally menacing as he was a dual purpose bowler, who opened the bowling with Kehel, and then switched to spin when the occasion demanded.

The duo were match winners, while representing Nomads Cricket Club, in the then premier cricket tournament in Sri Lanka, the Sara Trophy Tournament. Also played for the Police and Sahabandu represented the Colombo Municipal Council. The twosome also represented State Services, who at that stage were the 'Top Dogs' in the Inter-Services Cricket Tournament.

TBK

According to one writer, Kehelgamuwa was either splitting stumps with sheer pace or guiding Colombo's traffic to peace.

Many considered him a quietly courteous man.

Sometime back, when this writer met him for an interview after he had retired from the Police, it became evident that he was also quite a fun loving character with an impish sense of humour.

He was born on Dec. 9 1942, in Gampola, in the Kandy district.

According to one report, Seneviratne Amaranayake, a school teacher attached to Dharmaraja College, Kandy, was stopped in his tracks by a spindly child aged around eight, raising dust and disarray, knocking down an old tin can with such uncanny pace, with the use of an old tennis ball.

He was being weaned at Walhagoda Central, a tiny mixed school on the outskirts of Gampola. Without much ado, the tiny pacie was 'hijacked' by Amaranayake and ended up at Dharmaraja College, Kandy.

Snappy yorkers and bowling bouncers

At Dharmaraja, Kehel came under the eagle eye of Sonny Yatawara. At the age of 17, Kehel was picked to tour India with the Ceylon Schools team. In the match against Combined Indian Colleges, he claimed eight wickets; all clean bowled. Although, he hit the stumps 11 times, he was no-balled thrice.

Best Schoolboy Bowler

Kehelgamuwa was arguably the fastest bowler since D. S. Jayasundara, according to those who have seen both at their fastest.

Following his rampant run in India, in the school circuit his best was 7 for 21 against Nalanda College, Colombo. It is a little known fact that the fiery pacie won the Best Schoolboy Bowler's award in 1961 and 1962.

In 1963, he was lured to Police Park by old Joe, Felix Perumal. On the seamer's dream at Police Park, the rookie, bowling at a thunderous pace, spread fear across the country. In 1968, he was among those who represented Sri Lanka (then Ceylon), against the late Colin Cowdrey's MCC.

In 1971, the handsome young Sub-Inspector of Police stalked and capped pretty schoolmistress, Hemamalee Wettasinghe, when he was stationed at Panadura.

Gopalan Trophy

In Gopalan Trophy matches against Tamil Nadu, Kehel ripped through some of India's top notch batters, including Ajith Wadekar, Buddi Kundaram, Salim Durrani and Milka Singh, among many others.

Joe Lister's XI

In a match against Joe Lister's XI, a veritable England team, TBK captured 6 for 67.

In 1972, he took 4 Aussie wickets for 19 runs.

Uprooting international stumps

This is something that I saw with my own eyes.

One heck of a scene is how I would tend to describe it.

I was still a schoolboy then and one of my uncles took me to the Colombo Oval to watch MCC play All-Ceylon in 1969.

Kehel opened the bowling and one of England's openers was Geoff Boycott. Anyone who has an iota of knowledge or is a cricket fan knows very well that the Yorkshireman was not the easiest man to dislodge.

On this day however, I think in the very second ball, Kehel bowled a beauty at express speed and Geoff Boycott's stumps were shattered and ended up in various places.

What a sight it was and I was thrilled, being a great fan of the 'Kandyan Express'.





Supreme Court orders Jayalalithaa's trial in income tax case

January 30, 2014, 10:49 pm

BY S VENKAT NARAYAN,

Our Special Correspondent

NEW DELHI, January 30: The Supreme Court today refused to discharge Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Jayaram Jayalalithaa and her associate S Sasikalaa from three cases against them for not filing income tax returns during 1991-94.

A bench headed by Justice KS Radhakrishnan dismissed the petition filed by them challenging the Madras High Court's order which had refused to quash the proceedings against them.

Giving green signal to the trial court to proceed against them, the apex court also vacated the stay order on the trial and directed the lower court to complete the proceedings within four months.

The Income Tax department had in 1996-97 launched criminal proceedings against Jayalalithaa, Sasikalaa and Sasi Enterprises, of which both were partners, for not filing returns for the assessment years of 1991-92, 1992-93 and 1993-94.

The trial court had dismissed their discharge pleas and the Madras High Court had upheld the same in 2006.

Subsequently, special leave petitions were filed in the apex court against the judgement of the high court.





A petition filed in the Supreme Court by eight Pradeshiya Sabha Chairmen ....

January 30, 2014, 10:25 pm

A petition filed in the Supreme Court by eight Pradeshiya Sabha Chairmen whose budgets for 2014 were defeated had their case postponed to March 31 yesterday. Here one of the petitioners listening to his Counsel while leaving court. Pic by Kamal Bogoda





US $ 36 m for reconstruction and rehab of 25 bridges

January 30, 2014, 7:48 pm

The Development Policy Framework of the government has identified the necessity of rehabilitation and improvement of national road network of the country on a priority basis to improve the efficiency of transport services. Accordingly, the government has assigned high priority for widening and improvement of the narrow bridges which are very old and have reached their maximum serviceable life. Deterioration caused over time by heavy traffic and an adverse environment conditions have resulted higher frequency of repairs to old bridges and reduced the carrying capacity. In this context, it is required to construct and rehabilitate narrow bridges of the national road network by increasing its connectivity covering the entire island and expanding opportunities of people's access suitable for current requirement, a Ministry of Finance and Planning release said.

'The KFAED has agreed to provide USD 36 million (Kuwait Dinar 10 million) for construction and rehabilitation 25 narrow bridges including 9 bridges in Western Province, 3 bridges in Southern Province, 5 bridges in North Western Province, 4 bridges in Sabaragamuwa Province, 3 bridges in Northern Province and a bridge in Eastern Province. Implementing of this project will help to mitigate traffic congestion in high traffic corridors and traffic accidents while improving the connectivity of the road network, the release adds.

'The Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development has extended USD 196 Million since 1975 with concessional terms and conditions for the development of Sri Lanka. They have funded diversified areas, such as, education, irrigation and the road development sectors. Kalu Ganga Development Project, South Eastern University Development Project, Bridges rehabilitation and reconstruction project and Strengthening of Tertiary Education and Administrative Infrastructure in Tsunami Affected Areas are the significant projects which are currently being implemented with KFAED assistance.

'The loan agreement for USD 36 million (Kuwait Dinar 10 million) for Reconstruction and Rehabilitation of 25 Bridges of the National Road Network was signed on 30.01.2014 at the Ministry of Finance and Planning by Dr. P.B. Jayasundera, Secretary of Ministry of Finance and Planning on behalf of Government of Sri Lanka and Hesham Al-Waqayan, Deputy Director General of Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development. The proposed project will complement the program for construction of 1000 rural bridges island wide.





The Elections Commissioner

January 30, 2014, 9:22 pm

I refer to the news item very prominently published in The Island newspaer of 28th January 2014 titiled 'Polls Chief tells Candidates: No asset declarations, no IDs'. Every right thinking citizen in this country, and elsewhere too, would have read that news item with great appreciation. I believe it must be the first time that such requirement, which had lain dormant,

had been forcefully stated and brought to the notice of the public too.

That such notice had become necessary to be brought to the notice of candidates, with the attendant consequences of non-compliance with such requirement, speak loudly on the honesty, integrity, and the moral upbringing of such candidates who flout the law, but are aspiring to be members of a political council, to work for the benefit and well being of the people of his/her area. In that same news item it was also said that there are hundreds of applicants to contest the elections through major political parties. Anyone unfamiliar with our local as well as national politics would think how socially conscious and altruistic the Sri Lankan people are! Well, we had such people in the decades before, and perhaps a little after, Independence in 1948, but sadly, not today.

Media also stated that Mr Udaya Gammanpila is the only candidate who had so far surrendered government property which he had enjoyed as a former Provincial Councillor, and is once again contesting the forthcoming elections. There are former Provincial Councillors who are members of the party in power and also of the opposition. These political parties are screaming from house tops that they will run a honest and corruption- free administration: but the very fact that their members have not so far surrendered government property, even weeks after the dissolution of the former PCs proclaim the hollowness of their promises. If the parties cannot get their members to comply with such simple requirements, doesn't it show the absolutely corrupt nature of the whole system?

Everyone will commend the Elections Commissioner, for the steps he had taken to implement a preliminary requirement of the law, but there are many other requirements that he can forcefully implement, to have a clean election. It is hoped that he will enforce the same requirement at elections to Local bodies, to Parliament, and at Presidential elections. To make his task easier, he should get an amendment to the statutes passed in Parliament to the effect that the Elections Commissioner shall not accept the nomination papers of a candidate unless the Declaration of Assets are attached thereto.

Of course, candidates should be aware of the gravity of such a declaration because if the particulars given in such a signed document would be found to be false at any future date, and the candidate had been elected to any public body, s/he will not only have to vacate the seat, but also pay/undergo whatever stipulated penalties there are, and may even stand to lose civic rights.





Davis Cup begins today

Sri Lanka's Harshana Godamanna treats his opposite number, Ruben Gonzales of the Philippines, at the Davis Cup draw held yesterday at the SLTA. (Pic by Kamal Wanniarachchi)

Sri Lanka will eye to make history by defeating strong Philippines national men's team for the first time when the two teams meet at the 2014 Davis Cup Asia-Oceania Zone Group-II 1st Round tie, starting today at the Sri Lanka Tennis Association (SLTA) hard courts in Colombo.





Royal- De Mazenod ends in nail-biting draw

January 30, 2014, 10:53 pm

The match between Royal College, Colombo and De Mazenod College, Kandana ended in a nail-biting draw with the visitors stranded at 194 for seven wickets, chasing a target of 196 to win at Reid Avenue yesterday.





EXTERNAL AFFAIRS MINISTERS OF SRI LANKA AND INDIA HOLD TALKS

January 30, 2014, 10:49 pm

Professor G.L. Peiris, Minister of External Affairs, and Mr. Salman Khurshid, Minister of External Affairs of India, held bilateral discussions on Wednesday at the Ministry of External Affairs in New Delhi. These were wide ranging discussions covering all aspects of the bilateral relationship.





The Future of Manufacturing seminar was presented by Kingslake, in partnership with Infor on Thursday 30 January 2014, at the Cinnamon Grand, Colombo. The focal point of this seminar was to give local manufacturers the opportunity to discover new and innovative ways in which to maximise their potential and expand their horizons using the power of ERP. The event was attended by a large number of invitees from various local manufacturing organisations.

In his welcome speech, Dr S Dharmavasan, Chairman of Kingslake, emphasised the need for effective ERP in today's dynamic environment. He stated that due to technological advancements and the convergence of IT with SoMoClo (social, mobile, cloud), it is becoming even more vital that an organisation's ERP solution provides seamless integration, maximum functionality and produces rapid results. Dr Dharmavasan went on to say that "the real benefit derived from effective ERP solutions is that it can help local manufacturers increase productivity and profitability, which in turn will drive economic growth in Sri Lanka, thus leading to further opportunities for manufacturers."

This 'real benefit' is what results from the partnership between Kingslake and Infor. Operating and managing a manufacturing business is a complex and challenging task in itself. That is why Kingslake and Infor work together to give manufacturers simple solutions to make their day-to-day operations easier. As the third largest provider of enterprise applications and services in the world, Infor possesses a wide portfolio of solutions which address the varying needs of different manufacturers. Meanwhile, Kingslake has been a pioneer in successful ERP implementation for Sri Lankan manufacturers since 1994. Through a partnership that spans eighteen years, Kingslake and Infor have been providing solutions that help manufacturers stay ahead in a highly competitive environment.

The Future of Manufacturing seminar presented the unveiling of Infor 10x, the latest release of Infor's proven business applications. The seminar also introduced the newest release of Infor's powerful ERP solution, Infor SyteLine version 9. Infor SyteLine is specifically designed to help manufacturers improve productivity using manufacturing best practices and highly efficient process flows. The audience was able to discover the latest features and enhancements of the new release while gaining an understanding of the ways in which their organisations can benefit from SyteLine.





C.W Mackies introduce MOSA to propel construction sector growth

January 30, 2014, 8:01 pm

C.W. Mackie PLC, a diversified business conglomerate with a unique business history of over 100 years in Sri Lanka, is aggressively expanding its Industrial Products Division (IPD) by focusing on on-going infrastructure construction development in the country. Industrial Products sector has shown a significant YTD growth for both its top and bottom lines.

Recently the company secured the world renowned, prestigious Italian power generation brand MOSA which is widely accepted as a high quality product. Founded in 1963, MOSA has specialized in the production of high quality, professional engine driven welders, power generating sets & lighting towers.

Over the years, MOSA has supplied several hundred thousand engine driven welders. Generators and lighting towers to customers all over the world and the name is synonymous with quality and reliability.

Company spokesman said that "The construction industry growth rate for 2011/12 was around 20 per cent. That was a very high growth momentum. It continued in the same form and in the first half of 2013 recorded a growth momentum of 17.9%, "he added. "This provided a huge opportunity for us. We are now concentrating on capitalizing on the existing and new opportunities in the industry."









The program is expected to benefit the many consumers who obtain beauty treatment from salons in Sri Lanka. The country has witnessed a rapid growth of the beauty industry in the last few years, which has resulted in a remarkable increase in the number of salons around the country.

Many Sri Lankan women who are salon owners will be empowered through the program while the consumers will be given the opportunity to experience high quality beauty products and treatments. Given the fact that many gaps exist in the level of knowledge and standards practiced in the over-all salon industry, it is believed that the program would offer world class knowledge and expertise that will bridge the gap. In the process, the salon owners would be able to uplift their level of expertise and provide a safer, high quality experience to the consumer, says Ms Nayana Karunaratne.

Fair & Lovely, a well known and trusted brand that has always offered a range of safe and high quality face care products, has taken this initiative to launch a unique program that aims to empower the salon industry by uplifting the standards and addressing the knowledge gaps says Ms Sharmila Bandara – Marketing Manager – Skin Care & Deo of Unilever Sri Lanka. She added that Fair & Lovely has chosen to collaborate with one of Sri Lanka's leading beauticians, Ms.Nayana Karunaratne to ensure that this program is developed and implemented with the highest standards possible.

Ms.Imeshika Kariyawasam – Senior Brand Manager – Fair & Lovely says that Fair & Lovely Face Expert Academy will provide a comprehensivetraining programcovering skin care& industry know- how under Ms.Nayana Karunaratne for 500 salon professionals through a series of workshops planned to be held during the year. The salon owners would be selected based on criteria of relevance. The program will also comprise of different stages, during whichthe participating salon owners will have the opportunity to improve the standards of the salons by adding new equipment and ensuring that an improved look is presented in their salons. Ms. Kariyawasam assured that the program will thus uniquely empower the salon professionals towardsobtaining a greater level of professionalism which would also result ina significant improvement in the service levels offered to consumers.

Commenting on her association with Fair & Lovely Face Expert Program

as the key resource person, Ms Nayana Karunaratne says that she is indeed pleased to be associated with suchan initiative. "As our Salon industry has grown, we have always strived to introduce highstandards and a high quality work ethic to the industry. We view this as one such opportunity to share world class knowledge with salon owners who will undoubtedly benefit from the exposure and be more confident to offer a better service to their clientele." she says.

Fair & Lovely Face Expert program is targeted to reach 500 salons in Western, Southern and Central provinces within this year. The first session of this program was launched in Colombo on 29th January and will be rolled out to other provinces and is expected to be completed during this one year period.





"Europe and its Present and Future Role in the Globalized World"

- Public Lecture by Professor Ernest Petric at the Kadirgamar Institute

January 30, 2014, 7:57 pm

On January 23rd, 2014, the Lakshman Kadirgamar Institute for International Relations and Strategic Studies (LKIIRSS) hosted a public lecture entitled: "Europe and its Present and Future Role in the Globalized World". The lecture was delivered by Prof. Ernest Petric, President of the Constitutional Court of Slovenia.

The lecture was presided over by Prof. G.L Peiris – Minister for External Affairs and Chairman of LKIIRSS. Also present on this occasion were; Mohan Peiris, Chief Justice of Sri Lanka, Palitha Fernando, Attorney General of Sri Lanka; Sanath Ukwatte, Consul for Slovenia; and David Dally, Head of Delegation – European Union. The lecture was followed by a Q&A session.

In his remarks, Prof. Petric discussed the role of the European Union and acknowledged that despite the upcoming challenges, the EU would grow financially –and even politically- in the long run. He pointed out that the EU was "still a very impressive economic power and as a group has the best potential in the world, even when compared to China".

He further highlighted the importance of the EU within the international sphere reminding the audience that the political power held by the Union is still significant considering that two EU countries are members of the United Nations Security Council and are nuclear powers: the UK and France. According to him, the EU has contributed significantly to the world. "The greatest democratic ideas of our time are mostly babies of the European heritage", he said.

Concluding his presentation, Prof. Petric also touched on the concept of the European Parliament and European integration noting that "European integration should be done so that the cultural identities of the individuals are protected."





Sri Lanka's John Keells Holdings net up 17-pct

Profits at Sri Lanka's John Keells Holdings rose 17 percent to 3.39 billion rupees from a year earlier, helped by tourism, apartment sales and interest income though shipping and bunkering retreated.

The group reported earnings of 3.41 rupees per share for the quarter. For the nine months to December it reported earnings of 7.51 rupees per share on total profits of 7.0 billion rupees, which rose one percent, interim accounts showed.

Profits from tourism rose to 1.4 billion rupees from 1.2 billion in the quarter from a year earlier.

Chairman Susantha Ratnayake told shareholders said occupancy had increased both in Maldives and Sri Lanka.

Profits from property rose 316 million rupees in the quarter from 160 million rupees with sales of JKH's 'OnThree20' project and first revenues of '7th Sense' project being recognized. About 90 percent of the OnThree20 and 70 percent of 7th Sense had been sold so far.

Profits of consumer foods and retail rose 165 million rupees from 104 million rupees with ice cream and soft drinks sales picking up. Supermarkets had also seen more visits. Financial services saw profits rising to 914 million rupees from 679 million and other sources which include interest income rising to 382 million rupees from 118 million rupees. But profits from transportation, which include container handling and bunkering fell to 507 million rupees from 799 million rupees. Ratnayake said volumes dropped at the port. Other data had shown higher volumes at a state-run container terminal, while a Chinese owned terminal has also started operations this year.

"The Group's Bunkering business, although retaining market leadership in terms of share, recorded lower earnings compared to the same period last year as a result of the continued depression in the global bunker market coupled with the local and regional competition," he said.





Post-war infrastructure development in the North and East involved the construction and rehabilitation of a number of bridges and culverts along various roads. Access Engineering played a pivotal role in the Eastern and North Central Provincial bridge project which is part of the government's overall strategy to strengthen the road network in the region in order to improve livelihoods by jumpstarting economic and infrastructure development activity.

This ADB (Asian Development Bank) funded project was entrusted to Access Engineering by the Provincial Road Development Department, Eastern Province to design and construct five bridges and 6 multi cell culverts. The consultant to the project is Cardno Emerging Markets (Australia) Pvt Ltd in association with Engineering Consultants (Pvt) Ltd & MG Consultants (Pvt) Ltd.

"The project commenced operations on August 5th 2011 and was successfully completed within a period of 02 years and handed over on 31st July 2013. The new bridges have already been commissioned and the facilities are opened for public usage" Said Chandimal Kumara, Project Manager of Access Engineering.

As Paddy cultivation is the major livelihood of the people in these areas, the newly constructed Bridges along Mullamunai, Ayathiyamalai, Vavunathevu, Thoppigala and Valaiiravu roads will help transport their Paddy harvest to Batticaloa and other parts of the country with much ease than earlier.

Access Engineering also took the initiative to empower people from war affected areas in the Batticaloa district by utilizing available local resources to the fullest. This included training of ex LTTE carders who were rehabilitated by training them in various construction related fields and reintegrating them into society.





Five-star Dilruwan hands SL massive win

Angelo Mathews embraces Dilruwan Perera after the spinner took the last Bangladeshi wicket to help Sri Lanka secure a comprehensive victory in the first Test in Dhaka yesterday.

Off-spinner Dilruwan Perera picked up five wickets as Sri Lanka thumped fragile Bangladesh by an innings and 248 runs in the first Test in Dhaka on Thursday.

Bangladesh, trailing by a huge 498-run margin on first innings, were bowled out for 250 in their second knock after lunch on the fourth day at the Sher-e-Bangla stadium.

Perera, a 31-year-old playing in his second Test, finished with five for 109, while seamer Suranga Lakmal took three as the hosts were dismissed in 51.5 overs with a day to spare.

Bangladesh, who resumed the day at 35-1, failed to cope with Sri Lanka's pace and spin assault and lost their last nine wickets for 215 runs despite the even-paced pitch.

The hosts were reduced to 197-9 before the last-wicket pair of Rubel Hossain and Hossain Al Ameen boosted the total with some lusty hitting during an entertaining partnership of 53 runs off 38 balls.

Rubel made 17, while Al Ameen returned unbeaten with a quickfire 32 off 18 balls that contained four sixes and one boundary.

Bangladesh, who made 232 in their first innings, conceded their highest Test total of 730-6 declared. Three Sri Lankans hit centuries including Mahela Jayawardene, who scored an unbeaten double-ton.

Jayawardene, who was named man of the match, said he was happy to contribute to what was a "great game" by the team.

"It has been some time since I got a big one," the 36-year-old former captain said. "I thought it was a great game by the team as everyone put their hands up and performed.

"I think the wicket played really well, and even today there was a little bit of pace for our quicks, and for the spinners it was turning, but the important thing was the bounce, which really helped us.

"Test cricket is all about handling situations, that is where our guys did well. We applied ourselves and made sure we did not lose wickets up front."

Sri Lanka have now won 14 of their 15 Tests against Bangladesh, eight of them by an innings margin, and drawn the other.

On their previous tour in 2008-09, Sri Lanka had won the first Test by 107 runs and the second by 465 runs.

Bangladesh, who languish at the bottom of the Test rankings at number 10 — lower than unfancied Zimbabwe — have lost 68 of their 82 Tests since gaining full status in 2000.

They have won four Tests, two each against Zimbabwe and the West Indies.

Bangladesh captain Mushfiqur Rahim rued the lack of runs in the first innings that set his team back.

"It was a good wicket to bat on, but we did not play well from day one and that put us on the back foot," he said. "It is very difficult to come back from there.

"The boys just did not show the fight in the middle. Hopefully we will come back strongly in the next Test. We need to work on our batting. It is important that someone from the top plays a big innings."

Opener Shamsur Rahim was dismissed off the second ball of the day, fending at a vicious short ball from Shaminda Eranga and edging a catch to wicket-keeper Dinesh Chandimal.

Mominul Haque smashed eight boundaries in a fluent 50 off 57 balls, but the assault did not last long as he fell leg-before to Perera.

The second Test starts in the port city of Chittagong on February 4. It will be followed by two Twenty20 matches and three One Day Internationals.





SF's DP fears move to sabotage Feb. 4 youth membership drive

Former Army Chief, General Sarath Fonseka's Democratic Party (DP) will launch a membership drive at Kalawewa electorate in the Anuradhapura District on Independence Day.

Deputy Leader of the DP Jayantha Ketagoda, MP and National Organiser Captain Gayan Vithanage will spearheaded the initiative. DP organiser for Kalawewa Lalith Karunaratne yesterday told The Island that the proposed membership drive would coincide with the 66th National Independence Day celebrations.

Karunaratne said that the party would go ahead with the membership drive though ruling party supporters as well as some UNPers were threatening to obstruct the programme. Asked whether the DP would seek police protection to prevent possible attacks on party members, Karunaratne stressed that it would be the responsibility of the law enforcement authorities to prevent any untoward incidents. "We expect the police to promptly intervene in case of trouble. Whatever the emerging threats, the DP is determined to go ahead with the planned project. Success of our programme at Kalawewa is bound to give a tremendous boost to the party ahead of forthcoming Western and Southern Provincial Council polls."

The DP official said that the membership drive would commence at the Adiranigama junction on the Tambuttegama-Eppawela road at 9 a.m. with the participation of DP provincial council members. The official said that it would be the first propaganda event of its kind organised by the party since Elections Commissioner Mahinda Deshapriya recognised the DP as a registered political party. Karunaratne said: "We are trying to attract the youth in large numbers to the party. In fact, our campaign is geared to draw the youth into DP ranks."

MP Ketagoda told The Island that the DP campaign was on track with many opposition activists throwing their weight behind Gen. Fonseka. Under the former army chief's leadership the DP was capable of comfortably overtaking both UNP embroiled in internal crisis as well as the JVP, he said.





UNP pledges support for govt. to overcome British move in Geneva

'NPC war crimes resolution illegal'

January 30, 2014, 10:37 pm

by Zacki Jabbar

The UNP yesterday pledged its support to the government to overcome a war crimes resolution which the UK had announced would be submitted to the UNHRC annual sessions scheduled for March. However, the government was being hounded due to its own folly, the main Opposition party said.

UNP Colombo District MP, Wijedasa Rajapaksa addressing a press conference in Colombo pointed out that it was the current regime's MoU with the UN Secretary General Ban Ki Moon that had led to the establishment of the Darusman Committee of Inquiry, which had in turn become the basis of a war crimes probe.

The government had got away by repeatedly labeling its critics including the UNP and other Opposition political parties 'Tigers', but the same treatment meted out to many visiting foreign dignitaries representing the UN, the UK, the US and Canada, just to mention a few had backfired, Wijedasa noted.

It was President Mahinda Rajapaksa who had internationalised internal issues while in the Opposition by running to Geneva even over minor issues, Wijedasa said. "We, will do our utmost to help the government overcome any war crimes resolutions against it, but it should at least now come to its senses and desit from making baseless allegations against the Opposition with a view to gaining cheap political mileage on national issues as well."

Some Ministers had gone to the extent of challenging the international community. This had led to even India backing a resolution against Sri Lanka, at the last UNHRC session. Defeating the LTTE with foreign assistance did not mean that powerful nations could be dictated to, he observed.

Rajapaksa said that since 1983, the war against the LTTE had been fought by other leaders as well who had achieved a degree of success, but none them had lost their heads and foolishly anatagonised the international community which had, by and large, called for the protection of human rights, establishment of the rule of law and good governance."Having observed developments, I warned the powers that be, to mend their ways or face the prospect of an international war crimes probe in the future. In 2008, I even proposed a Parliamentary Committee to resolve the North-East issue, but there was no follow up action."

Commenting on the recent resolution passed by the Northern Provincial Council, calling for an international war crimes probe against the government, he described it as illegal and in violation of the 13th Amendment to the Constitution.





70th Birth Anniversary of Dr. Neelan Tiruchelvam

January 30, 2014, 10:35 pm

Dr. Neelan Tiruchelvam, a politician with formidable intellectual power and personal charm, was assassinated on July 29, 1999 at a relatively young age of fifty-five.

Today (January 31st) is his 70th birth anniversary and ICES proudly takes this opportunity and presents at its auditorium, 2, Kynsey Terrace, Colombo 8 a lecture by a top US Professor Donald L. Horowitz, James B. Duke Professor of Law and Political Science. He will speak on Many Functions of Federalism and Devolution at 4.00 p.m.





Suren Cooke Agencies, a pioneer in the Pest Management Industry, with over two decades of trusted service in Sri Lanka, have been awarded the prestigious ISO Certifications in Food Safety Management and Quality Management Systems. SCA became the very first pest management company in Sri Lanka and an elite few around the world to obtain ISO 22000:2005 Certification for food safety as a service provider in the food supply chain.

These quality accolades were awarded, based on the evaluation of compliance against International Standard for Food Safety Management System and is an endorsement of Suren Cooke Agencies commitment and competence to deliver quality and food safety. These certifications were awarded DNV Business Assurance Lanka Ltd, a branch office of global certification provider DNVGL under accreditation of Raad voor Accreditatie ( RvA) of Netherlands.

DNVGL is a globally recognized certification body who adhere to strict conformity to the said Accreditation standards. Taking this into consideration Suren Cooke Agencies partnered with them to obtain Accredited certifications and input, to ensure that the certification obtained is of value to the company, customer and end user.

ISO 9001:2008 delivers a quality management system where SCA will,

* Deliver its ability to consistently provide products and services that meets customer requirements within the framework of applicable statutory and regulatory requirements.

* Tremendously enhance customer satisfaction through the effective application of the system, including processes for continual improvement of the system and customer satisfaction

ISO 22000:2005 is an internationally recognized standard to benchmark effective food safety management systems in controlling food related hazards, for any organization in the food supply chain The standard ensures that all food safety aspect of the food chain are considered to implement systems that consistently provide safe products.

Companies that operate in accordance with the standards can be assured that their pest management service carried out by Suren Cooke Agencies (Pvt) Ltd will conform to the set standards and safe during application as Suren Cooke Agencies have developed a premium ISO 22000 and HACCP system for Pest Management Programmes which will help the customer be confident in the service obtained and thereby enjoy peace of mind.





Andhra Pradesh Assembly rejects Central bill to create Telangana

January 30, 2014, 12:00 pm

BY S VENKAT NARAYAN

Our Special Correspondent

NEW DELHI, January 30: The Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly in Hyderabad adopted on Thursday a resolution moved by Chief Minister N Kiran Kumar Reddy rejecting the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Bill that seeks to bifurcate the state to create a separate Telangana state.

The passage of the resolution by voice vote was preceded by Legislative Assembly Speaker Nadendla Manohar's announcement that the debate on the bifurcation bill has been completed.

Amid noisy scenes, the Speaker said that the House received 9,072 amendments on the Bill and 86 members participated in the debate that commenced in December second week. All these would be sent to the President as desired by him.

The Speaker put the resolution moved by the Chief Minister to voice vote while informing the House that he has not taken up the ten non-official resolutions he received as they all relate to the same subject. Later he adjourned the House sine die.

President Pranab Mukherjee had referred the bill to the state legislature on December 12 for its opinion under Article 3 of the Constitution. The bill was tabled on December 16 but could not be taken up for debate for several days due to protests by Seemandhra lawmakers, opposing state's bifurcation.

The Chief Minister, who hails from Seemandhra and is strongly opposed to bifurcation, last Friday submitted a notice to the Speaker for moving a resolution to reject the bill and send it back to the President with a request not to refer it to Parliament.

Terming the bill faulty and incomprehensive, Reddy on Wednesday challenged the central government to table it in the same form in the Parliament. He said if the Parliament admitted the bill in the same form, he will quit politics.

Meanwhile, suspense continues on whether the Speaker will conduct voting on the bill as being demanded by the chief minister and other Seemandhra legislators. The lawmakers from Telangana argued that there is no need for voting as the President has only sought opinion of the legislature.

Meanwhile, Telangana Rashtriya Samiti (TRS) on Thursday hit out at Chief Minister Reddy for rejecting the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Bill, and declared said the move cannot stop the formation of Telangana.

"The Chief Minister and the Speaker colluded and they are claiming that they have passed a resolution. This is a useless attempt. Nothing is going to happen by this. Telangana will not be stopped with this. The Bill will be moved in Parliament in the second week of February", TRS MLA and party president K Chandrasekhar Rao's son KT Rama Rao said in Hyderabad.

"Our party President Chandrasekhar Rao is going to Delhi tomorrow. We will meet all national leaders. This is the end of a ritual. They have done this for their self-satisfaction," Rama Rao said.





HNB drives development of over 500 SMEs

January 30, 2014, 7:58 pm

Picture shows training sessions conducted in Kilinochchi & Rathnapura

Hatton National Bank (HNB), the premier private sector commercial bank in Sri Lanka, has fuelled the development of over 500 small and medium enterprises (SMEs) island wide through the provision of training in 2013, contributing towards achieving national economic goals.

This programme was initiated by the Project Division of HNB with the assistance of the regional SME Units set up specifically for this purpose by the Bank and have benefitted enterprises engaged in tourism, agriculture, health care, construction, fisheries, furniture, apparel and beauty care, among others.

The plan was initiated by HNB by entering in to an agreement with the Government in 2011 to participate in the Line Of Credit Small & Medium Enterprise Development Facility Project (SMEDeF). Under the SMEDeF Credit line special emphasis is given to address constraints faced by SMEs in the country such as a lack of competitive advantage over large companies, insufficient knowledge, lack of financial discipline and formal business plans, marketing constraints, lack of cutting-edge technology and inability to retain skilled human resources.

Training programmes have been conducted in areas such as Ratnapura, Gampola, Embilipitiya, Matale, Trincomalee, Buttala, Medawachchiya, Jaffna and Kilinochchi by renowned consultants in all three languages with regard to these issues and capacity building and Environmental Friendly entrepreneurship. Additionally, the bank has trained around 90 Branch Managers, Executives, Junior Executives selected from all regions of the country to provide the services to SMEs.

When providing financial assistance, HNB considers the project viability, technical feasibility, cash flow feasibility and market potential of the ventures of SMEs instead of focusing on the asset security alone. The Bank also assists and guides entrepreneurs through the project without interruption by allowing adjustable repayment schemes and settlement offers.

In keeping with the Government vision of developing the SME segment of Sri Lanka, HNB plans to continue its support of SMEs in 2014 and the first phase of this plan will be to continue the training sessions in areas which have not been covered thus far.





Australia, UNICEF provide Rs.1 bn for northern schools

January 30, 2014, 10:32 pm

The Australian government and UNICEF inaugurated new buildings for children in four schools located in Mullaitivu and Kilinochchi on Tuesday and Wednesday.

The restoration work was initiated as part of a more than one billion rupee partnership between the Australian government and UNICEF to help restore education facilities for 10,000 children in 23 schools in the North.

Some of the buildings at the Jayapuram Government Tamil Mixed School in Kilinochchi, Mullaitivu Roman Catholic Tamil Mixed School, Sillawattai Tamil Vidyalayamin MullaitivuandKatchilaimaduMahaVidyalayamin Oddusudan,which were damaged during the conflict,were newly reconstructed to 'child friendly' standards.

The Australian High Commissioner Robyn Mudie said that the Australian Government was very pleased to be able to make a significant contribution to the lives of children and families in the North."We hope the impact of this programme will be long lasting".

The inauguration ceremonies were attended by key dignitaries from the Government including the Chief Minister and Governor of the Northern Province, Provincial Education officials, teachers, parents and school children.

"We thank the Australian Government for their support in improving the access to quality education for vulnerable children in Sri Lanka," said the UNICEF Sri Lanka Representative Una McCauley. "This funding has helped guarantee the rights of these children, some from the most remote places of resettlement, to benefit from education facilities near their homes and in a learning environment that respects their dignity".

The schools received a range of construction support including: auditoriums, class rooms, laboratories for science and agriculture, computer and music rooms, offices for principals and teachers, canteens and washing facilities.The Australian Government has also helped train teachers on Child Friendly Approaches to teaching and learning, which will help improve the learning outcomes of children.

The Australian Government-UNICEF partnership supporting children and women in Sri Lanka has spanned 20 years benefiting numerous initiatives in health, education, protection and water supply and sanitation.





Apropos an article titled 'The continuing divide between what is required to be done and what is done' by The Island columnist Jehan Perera on January 27 edition, the Sri Lanka Navy has sent the following statement

*The article distorts facts and therefore, harmful to the good name of the Navy.

* The Navy, being the first line of defence of the island-nation, is vested with the responsibility of safeguarding the vital coastline and the country's waters. Accordingly, the Navy established a camp at Mullikulum due to its strategic importance for the national security. The naval camp is tasked with providing protection to the north-western coastline, adjacent waters and the fishing activities. It conducts operations to prevent drug trafficking and poaching and acts as a deterrent to illegal immigration and emigration. Naval presence has barred deforestation and illicit sand mining in the area.

* The naval camp is located on state land and no civilian has title deeds to it. However, on the instructions of the Secretary of Defence, 946 acres from the land allocated to the Navy were granted to Tamil civilians, who had been occupying land to its north without any legitimate claim.

* The Navy, utilizing its own funds, resettled twenty-seven (27) internally displaced families in new houses, each built on 80-perch plot of land belonging to the Department of Wildlife Conservation. The newly-constructed houses were handed over to the occupants accordingly on 27th August 2013 in the presence of Bishop of Mannar, His Lordship Rayappu Joseph. In addition, 10 fishing boats were also given to those engaged in fishing to assist the livelihood development of the resettled families.

*All the tanks are located outside the naval camp premises and they are maintained by the Department of Irrigation. During the Maha season, the farmers cultivated all the lands fed by the tanks. A further 140 acres of paddy land have also been granted to the civilians in Mullikulum to assist their livelihood.

*In fulfillment of a request made by Archbishop of Colombo, His Eminence Malcolm Cardinal Ranjith, the Navy renovated the Mullikulum's Church of Our Lady of Assumption, which had been in a dilapidated condition due to the ravages caused by ruthless terrorists. The Mission House was constructed anew, enabling the smooth functioning of the historical church. Worshippers have free access to the highly revered place of worship and all facilities are extended accordingly for them to engage in religious activities without any restrictions or hindrance. The Navy, which holds all places of religious significance in the highest esteem, provides two buses to the villagers of Catholic faith to attend church services every Sunday in a bid to bring them closer to their church for spiritual guidance.

*The Roman Catholic Tamil Mixed School, located close to the church, was also fully renovated by the Navy. Transportation for students and teachers is provided by the Navy. Salaries to the teachers are paid by the Navy and measures have also been taken to recruit 04 other youth as teachers. This will provide employment to educated youth in the area and enable them to contribute to the educational uplift of their village.

*Under the direction of the Ministry of Defence, the Sri Lanka Navy has been carrying out numerous humanitarian assistance programmes to uplift the living conditions of the people who had been battered by three-decade long terrorist war. Community Development Projects implemented by the Navy in Mullikulum have paved the way for the social and religious revival in the once war-ravaged village. The Navy has ensured the civilian safety and security and the people have come back to resume a new life with dignity.

* Roads have been reconstructed by the Navy and medical clinics are conducted to provide treatment to the residents. Drinking water and electricity to the village are also provided by the Navy. Navy's continuous livelihood assistance has enabled the residents to engage in fishing as well as agriculture and they are now earning steady incomes for their families.

11. In such a context, concocting false stories displays a clear prejudice to create dissension and dissatisfaction among peace-loving residents in Mullikulum. The article presents a one-sided view irked by the peace and tranquility prevailing in a village resurrected with a new lease of life. The valiant efforts of naval personnel who work tirelessly under harsh conditions to make the living of residents more comfortable are conveniently undermined in order to give credence to the narrative, which is aimed at discrediting the Government of Sri Lanka and the Navy.

* The need of the hour is to join hands to defeat all sinister forces rallied against a nation, which is striving to create a just society for all ethnic groups to live in communal harmony. Such a resolve will pave the way for a battered people to benefit from the collective prosperity achieved with the hard-won peace. Some people simply ignore the flight of the common man and wax eloquent on utopian theories which they will never contribute to make true.

* It is high time to move away from the "What You Want to See" attitude and face the glaring realities. What is required is "contribution to heal the wounds between the divide" by measures one is capable of.





Greenland's Race for Modernity

January 30, 2014, 8:45 pm

Prime Minister Aleqa Hammond

by Gwynne Dyer

What's remarkable about Greenlandic politics is how aware the players are of their dilemma and their options. "If you want to become rich, it comes at a price," says Aqqaluk Lynge, one of the founders of the Inuit Ataqatigiit (Community of the People) party that ran the government until recently. Lynge doesn't want to pay that price, and under the Inuit Ataqatigiit administration all mining was banned in Greenland. Quite apart from the environmental costs of large-scale mining operations, Lynge said, the many thousands of foreign workers they would bring in would have a devastating impact on what is already a very fragile Greenlandic culture.

Greenland has the highest suicide rate in the world: one in five Greenlanders tries to commit suicide at some point in their lives. Everybody in Greenland (all 56,000 of them) knows this. In fact, everybody knows quite a few people who have tried to commit suicide, and one or two who succeeded. So it is really a good idea to subject this population to an experiment in high-speed cultural and economic change?

Greenland is not fully independent: Denmark still controls its defence and foreign affairs, and subsidises the population at the annual rate of about $10,000 per person. But Greenlanders are one of the few aboriginal societies on the planet that is dominant (almost 90 percent of the population) on a large territory: the world's biggest island. And it is heading for independence.

So the debate in this soon-to-be country is about what to aim for. Do you go on trying to preserve what is left of the old Arctic hunting and fishing culture, although it's already so damaged and discouraged that it has the highest suicide rate on the planet? Or do you put the pedal to the metal and seek salvation in full modernisation through high-speed economic growth (while keeping your language and what you can of your culture)?

What's remarkable about Greenlandic politics is how aware the players are of their dilemma and their options. "If you want to become rich, it comes at a price," says Aqqaluk Lynge, one of the founders of the Inuit Ataqatigiit (Community of the People) party that ran the government until recently.

Lynge doesn't want to pay that price, and under the Inuit Ataqatigiit administration all mining was banned in Greenland. Quite apart from the environmental costs of large-scale mining operations, Lynge said, the many thousands of foreign workers they would bring in would have a devastating impact on what is already a very fragile Greenlandic culture.

But the Siumut (Forward) party won last October's election, and new Prime Minister Aleqa Hammond sees things very differently. Essentially, she thinks modernisation has gone too far to turn back now. Better to gamble on solving the current huge social problems (like suicide) by enabling everybody to live fully modern, prosperous lives. If you're no longer marginalised and poverty-stricken, you'll feel better about yourself.

With this in mind, she has issued more than 120 licenses for mining and petrochemical projects including a huge open-cast iron-ore mine that would ship 15 million tonnes of high-grade iron concentrate a year (mostly to China), drilling platforms for offshore oil and gas exploration, and even mines to produce uranium and rare earths. She has made her choice, and she understands it.

In a recent interview with The Guardian while she was visiting Norway, Aleqa Hammond said: "The shock will be profound. But we have faced colonisation, epidemics and modernisation before. The decisions we are making (to open the country up to mining and oil exploitation) will have enormous impact on lifestyles and our indigenous culture. But we always come out on top. We are vulnerable, but we know how to adapt."

Brave words, but few Greenlanders have the technical and managerial skills to get senior jobs in these high-risk, high-cost enterprises ($2.5 billion for the iron ore mine alone), and most of them will not want the hard, dirty, dangerous jobs of the workers in the mines and on the rigs. If all goes well, they will no longer depend on the Danish subsidies that currently keep their society afloat, but they will just be shifting to a different source of subsidies.

To the extent that a sense of cultural marginalisation and defeat, and a life without meaningful work, is responsible for the Greenlanders' problems, it's hard to see how more money from a different source will help. Or how adding a few tens of thousands of foreign workers from places like China to the social mix will help, either.

The epidemic of depression and other psychological illnesses, the rampant alcoholism and drug use, and the tidal wave of suicides that plague the Greenlanders are not unique: almost all the aboriginal peoples of North America, and indeed elsewhere too, have elevated levels of these afflictions. In Canada, for example, the general population experiences a 12 per 100,000 rate of suicides, while aboriginal people in general have double that rate.

But the suicide rate among Inuit people in Canada is TEN times as high as it is among the general population – and among Inuit children and teens it is a staggering THIRTY times as high.

The Greenlanders live in a different country and have much more control over their lives, but they belong to the same Inuit culture that extends right across the high north from Alaska to Greenland. They also seem to share the same problems at the same heightened intensity, especially as regards suicide. These problems are unlikely to be cured simply by throwing money at them. It could even make matters worse.

Aleqa Hammond is damned if she does and damned if she doesn't: leaving the people in their current predicament is not a good choice, but going flat out for modernisation doesn't feel like such a good option either. It would be a good time to call in the cultural engineers, if such a profession existed.





AGM of the Sri Lanka Electronics Manufacturers and Exporters Association

January 30, 2014, 7:52 pm

The Annual General Meeting of the Sri Lanka Electronics Manufacturers and Exporters Association will be held on 6th February 2014 at 198, Lake Drive, Colombo 8.

A new set of Office Bearers and Committee of Management headed by Raeto Zyrd, Managing Director of CCS Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. is expected to be appointed at the AGM as part of the re- launching of SLEMEA. Industry Veterans such as Merrick Gooneratne, Lalith Madappuli, Tisil Cooray, Shelton Fernando and Upananda Mallikaratchi are expected to serve on the Executive Committee with key representatives of-Academia, Research Organisations and State Agencies. SLEMEA functions under the aegis of Sri Lanka Export Development Board with S. K. Maldeniya, Deputy Director and Vajira Kularathne as coordinators. The AGM will be followed by fellowship and dinner hosted by the outgoing President, Rohan Pallewatte.





Opposition's platitudes

January 30, 2014, 9:15 pm

Opposition Leader Ranil Wickremesinghe and other opposition parties keep mouthing off platitudes such as 'Cost of Living', 'Rising Crime', 'Carpeted Roads' and since of late, 'kudu business'; however, they have not provided solutions to remedy these social ills, so that society can move on free of fear and hunger.

Sri Lanka was not better off under UNP rule. Far from it. There were abductions and disappearances and massacres (Batalanda being one of them). White vans operated with immunity, picking up victims whom they considered to be obstacles to their dictatorial rule and were disposed of in barbaric ways.

Regimes were secretive and people feared them. There were the infamous 'Black Cat' brigades ('kalu poosas' as they were commonly referred to), and during the JVP insurrections, young girls and boys were snatched from the arms of their parents, tortured and thrown into waterways. This country was awash with blood. There were tyre pyres, racially inclined riots and mass graves.

Although I am not a fan of the present regime, especially on account of the country's indebtedness, there are positive results that and some of those loans have been well-spent, in particular, the beautification of the Colombo District. There are many extravagances and wasteful spending, but these should be thrashed out in Parliament.

What plans has the Opposition made, in the event of them being elected, to bring down the cost of living? To pay off debt? To bring down the crime rate? To eliminate drug addiction? To rehabilitate drug addicts in specialised institutions or rehabilitation centres? To better equip the Police Force with motobykes, patrol cars, computers and ambulances?

Carpeted roads are not an extravagance, but a necessity. The street where I live in was full of potholes and accidents were many, but now this street is something one can admire.

The public need solutions to problems, not rhetoric and platitudes. If not, as the three-wheeler driver on TV said "Okkomala Ekai" (They are all the same!), referring to politicians and political parties.





Smuggler nabbed with Rs. 6.6 million in foreign currency

January 30, 2014, 10:36 pm

By Madura Ranwala

A 53-year-old man from Wattala was arrested by the Customs at Bandaranaike International Airport on Wednesday while he was attempting to smuggle out 6.6 million rupees in foreign currency to Singapore.





PS budget defeats Status quo should remain, – Supreme Court

January 30, 2014, 10:33 pm

By Chitra Weerarathne

The Supreme Court yesterday ordered that the status quo will remain in the Pradeshiya Sabhas, where budgets for the current year were defeated. The respective chairmen will not be removed or any others reappointed instead till the next date of calling of the fundamental rights violation applications.

Eight fundamental rights violation applications filed by chairmen of Pradeshiya Sabhas considered to have resigned from their posts consequent to the defeat of their budgets were called before the Supreme Court yesterday and relisted for support on March 31, 2014.

In the Pradeshiya Sabhas of Kesbewa, Bulathsinhala and Matara, the vice-chairmen have already been appointed chairmen by the Assistant Commissioner of Local Government, on the advice of the Secretary and the members of the Pradeshiya Sabhas.

The petitioners who are members of the UPFA have said in their petitions that they have not violated Section 169 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act and hence could not be removed from office. They claimed that their right to equality and the right to engage in the lawful occupation of their choice had been violated by the respondent Commissioner of Local Government and the office bearers of the respective Pradeshiya Sabhas. They have requested the court to cancel the wrongful decision to remove them from office.

Manohara de Silva P.C. appeared with Alisabry P.C. and Priyantha Jayawardene for the petitioners.

The Additional Solicitor General, Bimba Tilakaratna, PC appeared for the state.





Sri Lanka could have saved Rs. 416 billion if the first coal fired power plant at Norochcholai had been built and commissioned 12 years ago and the benefits of the first plant would be huge in the long run, Power and Energy Ministry Secretary M. M. C. Ferdianando said.

Addressing a media briefing at the Information Department in Colombo yesterday, Ferdinando said the Lakvijaya power plant at Norochcholai had helped saved Rs. 111 bn.

He stressed that plant had been designed for 25 years and one could imagine the benefits in rupee terms when all three plants at Norochcholai were commissioned. The second is scheduled to be opened next March following a one-month reliability test and third plant in May this year.

The Ministry Secretary, however, said that due to breakdowns at Norochcholai the Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) had to depend on other expensive sources of thermal power at costs between Rs. 33 and Rs. 18 rupee a unit as against Rs. 7 a unit at Norochcholai.

He said that the CEB had been compelled to commission the first phase of the plant without going for a reliability test considering the crisis situation in the country owing to droughts in 2011.

Power and Energy Minister Pavithra Wanniarachchi said that the plant builder had assured it would attend to repair work even after five years. She said China Machinery Engineering Corporation (CMEC) top officials were expected today to discuss the present problem further.

Answering questions, she said that under no circumstances would the government resort to power cuts.





Noise pollution hits you from many directions

January 30, 2014, 9:22 pm

A number of readers have written to your paper about noise pollution in the city and the culprits they argue are the bread sellers in three wheelers. But they appear for a few minutes, play their tune and disappear.

What about the buses with their air horns, blared for no apparent reason, morning noon and night? Any person who lives on a main road will vouch for this.









Author Lewie Diasz presenting a copy of the book Strategic Marketing ...

January 30, 2014, 7:53 pm

Author Lewie Diasz presenting a copy of the book Strategic Marketing (Marketing Strategies for Sri Lankan Business Entities) to President Mahinda Rajapaksa.Lewie Diasz was awarded the youngest Fellow Member in the world by the Chartered Institute of Marketing and has been recognized for his teaching and research in Marketing and Business Strategy. He is a Chartered Marketer and has produced Triple World Prize Winning students for CIM examinations. He holds an MBA from the University of Wales and is reading for his Doctorate at the University of Colombo





Majority of Lankans liable to contract cancer

Around 84 per cent of people in Sri Lanka are liable to develop various forms of cancers. Smoking, alcohol consumption and chewing betel are believed to be the main causes.

Director General Health Services Dr. Palitha Maheepala addressing a media conference yesterday at the Health Education Bureau in view of the World Cancer Day, which falls on February 04, said that people developing various forms of cancers had increased owing to the consumption of betel, liquor consumption and smoking.

Dr. Maheepala said that the commonest cancers prevalent in the country were breast, cervical, esophagus, lung, bowel and oral. It was found that chewing betel with areca nut, tobacco and lime, had been the main cause of oral cancers among people, especially among estate workers, bus drivers and conductors. Smokers were also prone to develop oral and lung cancers.

National Cancer Control Programme's Dr. Suraj Perera said that most women were shy of having their breasts examined by doctors. If they felt any hardness on their breasts it was advisable for them to get timely medical attention as early detection could be advantageous.

Dr. Hemantha Amerasinghe of the NCCP said that most people were not conscious of their health. The commonest symptoms of cancers were red or white rashes in the mouth, inflammation of the thyroid glands, blood in stools, change of the voice, hardness of breasts and unusual vaginal discharge.





South Korea provides biggest job quota to Sri Lanka

* Korea Corner to be upgraded into Cultural Centre

January 30, 2014, 10:45 pm

By Zacki Jabbar

Sri Lanka would be given the biggest quota out of 15 countries that have applied for jobs in South Korea, its Ambassador in Colombo Jongmoon Choi said.

Addressing the opening ceremony of the Korea Corner which was established at the National Library in Colombo7 earlier this week, he noted that there was already a 25,000 strong community of Lankan workers in his country. "Sri Lanka will be given the largest quota out of 15 countries from which we invite guest workers."

The Ambassador said that Korea Corner equipped with hundreds of Korean books, magazines, DVD's and popular K-pop music and dramas installed in brand new computers would serve as a mini cultural centre."I am confident that we will be able to meet the growing demand for information about Korea, until such time a fully-fledged Cultural Centre is established. Korean TV dramas are telecast every evening. Young Sri Lankans enjoy Korean pop music and every year more than 30,000 of its citizens sit for the Korean language test. Such interactions contribute to strengthening our friendship."

Sigiriya Rock has become an icon of Sri Lanka to the Korean people. Ten TV documentary teams had visited Sri Lanka in the recent past and filmed various aspects of its people, culture and natural beauty, he observed.

Outlining what he described as vast strides in bilateral relations in the recent past, Choi noted that the Korea-Sri Lanka Parliamentary Friendship Association had been launched at the National Assembly in Seoul. "Our Prime Minister made the very first official visit to Sri Lanka since the inception of diplomatic relations in 1977. In spite of his busy schedule, he found the time to meet with the Mayor to discuss cooperation projects with the Colombo Municipality."

The commencement of Korean Airline flights to Sri Lanka after a lapse of 30 years was also an important milestone. A load factor of more than 90 percent which reflected the vibrancy of relations from trade to investment to tourism, he pointed out.

The Ambassador said that the Korean Embassy would continue to equip Korea Corner with the latest books, dramas and music. Its management, he observed would be in the hands of the National Library.

The Mayor of Colombo A.J.M. Muzammil said that the establishment of Korea Corner would contribute to further strengthening the bonds of friendship between the people of both countries









Housewives in Watawala Plantations taught cash-flow management

January 30, 2014, 8:00 pm

The Watawala Plantations is in a progamme to empower women!Empowerment of women has been tried by many, on various platforms; however, this plantation company has taken a unique approach, by teaching household cash-flow management to women estate worker. The objective is to socially position the women as a house wife who understands and practices thrift and knowledge in making ends meet in the household budget.

Keeping in line with the company's policy on gender equality, the focus of the women's empowerment programme is to give an opportunity for the women to get involved in decision making process at work as well as at home, which is denied traditionally, and therebyremove the stigma of a woman taking a lesser role in the family hierarchy andas well at home,to emerge as decision makers and leaders.

The operational approach to this programme is to set up women empowerment teams in the estates that could collectively find solutions for their socio economic issues. Watawala Plantations has implemented this project in four estate (Homodola Estate, Talangaha Estate, Nakiyadeniya Oil Palm Estate and Nakiyadeniya Rubber Estate) in Udugama region.

About 5 to 10 individuals get together to form a group and share their thoughts and difficulties amongst the members to find practical solutions. As most of their domestic issues are stemming from financial hardships,a fundis established by the participants by collecting a nominal contribution,monthlyfrom each member, through which they can obtain a soft loan, whenever the need arises without having to borrow from a third party.

The motto being to recognise female estate workers as 'partners in progress,' the Women Empowerment programme, first implemented in 2012 sets out common goals, such as, encouraging female involvement in the decision making process, educating them on identify solutions for their socio economic issues, enabling them face the challenges in an organised manner and develop and identify the leadership qualities in them.









Four types of lies...

January 30, 2014, 9:17 pm

Somewhere in the 50s, an upright lecturer in his first lecturer to teachers in undergoing training, told them that there were three types of LIES. – Lies, damn lies and statistics repeating and recalling statement of British PM Disraeli.

It will be recalled that the oldest category of pensioners were invited to Temple Trees (5000 of them) and were given a solemn assurance that their problem would be rectified. But what happened?

Today there are four types of lies. "Lies, Damn lies, statistics and pensioners!"





Poison in food

January 30, 2014, 9:14 pm

This is an addendum aprops to the letter written by Mr. Edward Gunawardena.

With great respect to E. G., I regretfully state that he has not included some poisons that are doled out to the public. Poison in water as found at Ratupaswela. Textile dyes are used in food colouring and plaster of paris goes into hoppers baked in some wayside eateries, to keep them crispy.

Dirty sweepings, neatly packed and attractively labelled pass for tea. Various chemicals are used to ripen fruits. Fish is very heavily embalmed with formaline, the indication being flies not feasting on them. Urea is mixed with rotgut to boost the kick. Kerosine is sprayed on gram as preservatives. Vegetables are doused with agro chemicals containing heavy metals, commercial poultry are injected with growth enhancing hormones and fed with antibiotics and predisolone. White rice is coloured brown artificially to call it 'kekulu'. Only bread fruit, jak, 'katura murunga' and coconuts are not sprayed with poison, in the present day.

E.G. very correctly adduces this poisoning to corruption. I would add bribery, lining of pockets with filthy lucre by the authorities as the other cause.





Hemas Holdings PLC together with the Minor Hotel Group of Thailand has finalised plans to construct and operate a luxury five-star resort on the southern coast of Sri Lanka in Kalutara. The investment agreement was signed recently with the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka by Mr. Abbas Esufally – Group Director of Hemas Holdings PLC, and Mr. Dillip Rajakarier, CEO Minor Hotel Group.

The proposed 141-room project will cater to discerning travellers and will offer luxurious guest rooms and villas with their own plunge pools. The hotel will also boast of three restaurants, two swimming pools and a purpose-built spa. The property will be operated under the Anantara brand, and will epitomise the very best in indigenous Sri Lankan design, and will be complemented with all the luxuries sought-after by the modern-day traveller.

Construction and implementation of the project will commence in February 2014 and the resort is scheduled for opening in mid-2015. The total value of the investment is approximately US$ 35 million.

Ranil de Silva - Managing Director, Serendib Leisure Hotels, commented, "We are excited to venture into the second Anantara project by working together with a world renowned partner, the Minor Hotel Group". He also added that, "This is a significant milestone in the company's quest to grow in the hotel market on the island of Sri Lanka, providing superior hospitality options to the discerning traveller".





Record tea crop of 340 Mnkg in 2013

Sri Lanka Tea Board has confirmed annual tea production in 2013, at a highest ever 340 Mnkg 3.6% more than the 2012 figure of 328 Mnkg. Previous record was 331 Mnkg achieved in 2010.

This years figure was released relatively late and would have included most estate returns. The crop figure is an exceptional achievement considering the adverse weather that restricted production from Western High Grown districts during May to July. In the Low Country too the weather did not follow the traditional pattern. The availability of fertilizer at subsidized rates went a long way to assist both small holders and regional plantation companies to over come mixed growing conditions. Additionally high tea prices for Low Country teas and the resulting rise in bought leaf prices encouraged small holders to optimize production. In fact unhealthy competition for leaf by factories and leaf collectors increased production of low quality leaf.

National Green Tea production reached an all time high of 3.69 Mnkg in 2013; up 22% on the 2012 figure of 3.03 Mnkg. CTC production was 22.4 Mnkg down on the 2012 record of 23.3 Mnkg.

Elevational Production

It was a record year for Low country with production reaching a highest ever 208 Mnkg well ahead of the 2012 adjusted figure of 202 Mnkg. Tea crop from this region which contributes 61% of the national harvest; has a finite capacity to grow from the current base of production.

High Grown did well to achieve 75.5 Mnkg, nominally ahead of previous years figure of 73.6 Mnkg, but well below the highs of 86.9 Mnkg achieved in 2002 or even the figure of 78 Mnkg produced in 2011. The elevational numbers for 2013 YoY 2012 were propped up by improved production from the Eastern slopes of the central hills; that had a extended dry spell mid 2012. Mid Growns were similarly boosted by better growing conditions in Eastern growing districts and rose 7% from 52 to 56 Mnkg.

Agro Climatic Districts

In the Low Country the sub district of Ratnapura made the biggest contribution of 56 Mnkg, nominally lower than the 2012 figure of 57 Mnkg. Galle followed with an improved performance from 44 to 48 Mnkg. Morawaka 27 Mnkg, Kalutara 24 Mnkg and Deniyaya 16 Mnkg were the other significant contributors.





Online tax remittance to CMC since early January launch exceeds Rs.1.6 mn

January 30, 2014, 7:45 pm

With the introduction of the Colombo Municipal Council online (CMC) tax payment system, the total amount of remittances received online by the CMC as tax payment has now exceeded Rs.1.6 million.

The ICT Agency of Sri Lanka (ICTA) says that during the past 20 days since the launch of the new CMC online tax payment system, more than 200 persons have made use of the facility.

CMC tax payments which do not require any supplementary documents / manual interventions could be made online using this new facility. The tax categories for which this online payment could be made are:- (1) Rates payments, (2) Trade tax, (3) Tax on businesses, (4) Market rental, (5) House rental, (6) Shops and boutiques rental and (7) Hawkers' rental.

While details about the amount paid and the balance payable are available online, an electronic receipt for the amount paid will also be issued online. The permanent residents of the CMC currently total approximately up to 550,000 and the number of active tax payers registered with the CMC currently stands at 150,000.

It is expected that paying centres with internet facilities will be set up within the CMC area to enable the public to make their payments.

The link for the new facility is http://www.eservice.cmc.lk/cmc-citizen-web/Payments/OnlinePayments





GMOA urges Lanka to follow Central America and ban agro-chemicals

Chronic kidney disease killing at least dozen Lankans daily

January 30, 2014, 10:16 pm

by Don Asoka Wijewardena

With Health Ministers of most Central-American countries banning the use of agro-chemicals in paddy, fruit and vegetable cultivations on the basis of having accepted the research conducted on the root cause of the kidney disease of unknown etiology by a Sri Lankan scientist, the GMOA will push for a similar ban here.

Government Medical Officers' Association President Dr. Anuruddha Padeniya told The Island that the root cause of the mystery chronic kidney disease was excessive use of agro-chemicals. It was confirmed by Sri Lanka born Consultant Dr. Sarath Gunathilaka who was attached to the United States Health Science (occupational health department).

He pointed out that the GMOA would be meeting the Health Minister next week to request him to get the Cabinet approval to ban all kinds of agro-chemicals which had been flooding into the country. Senior lecturer in Chemistry at the Rajarata University Dr. Channa Jayasumana's comprehensive research had scientifically proved that due to excessive use of agro-chemicals the drinking water sources had been contaminated and people were developing kidney problems in alarming proportions all over the country as a result of consuming such agro-chemical tainted water.

Dr. Padeniya said that Dr. Gunathilaka who was an American Board certified consultant physician in USA had scientifically studied the research conducted by Dr. Jayasumana and had concurred with latter's findings. He had also published the findings of the research internationally. As a result Health Ministers of some Middle- American countries had taken immediate action to ban the use of agrochemicals in cultivations.

When The Island asked Dr. Jayasumana why the disease was particularly severe in certain parts of the country, he said that when agro-chemicals contaminated naturally hard water as found in the North Central Province it tended to make that water far more toxic.

Sri Lanka should take action to ban agro-chemicals before agro-chemicals caused widespread devastation. The GMOA also appreciated the action taken by Defense Secretary Ghotabaya Rajapaksa to ban the use of certain agro-chemicals in cultivations. The time had come to prevent the development of kidney disease which had been killing around 13 persons a day in the country, the GMOA President said.





Apparel industrialists hailed as visionaries

JAAF, a model to emulate says Treasury Secretary

January 30, 2014, 7:41 pm

By Harischandra Gunaratna

Treasury Secretary P.B.Jayasundara on Wednesday addressing the members of the Joint Apparel Association Forum (JAAF)said that restoring peace is not enough; the apparel industry in the country should strive to be among the top ten in the world and hailed the entrepreneurs in this industry as visionaries.

He said, "JAAF has set an example and all associations in the country should follow its model."

Jayasundara said that Sri Lanka should become a centre for multi- country value.

"We should not become just a producing centre but enter the global market producing world class designer fabrics," the Treasury Secretary pointed out.

We are a country with best ethical practices and it is an integral part of our business, he added.

'When the World Bank President visited the country recently he was amazed with the development taking place here, after seeing the tea plantations factories and others and said that upon his return, he would report at board level that Sri Lanka is the only country without power failures, he added.

Jayasundara said: "I will assure that there will be no power cuts in Sri Lanka as our power generation is well diversified and now we are looking for renewable energy. In some parts of Pakistan there was no electricity at all, but in Sri Lanka some were complaining that electricity tariffs were too high."

"We must strive to bring global brands here and make Sri Lanka a hub in Asia and one million value chains have been created, Jayasundara said.

He paid a tribute to the apparel industry in the country saying, "When passing your factories, one wonders whether they are factories or hotels, there is no smoke and the places are full of green spaces and you are ethical manufacturers in the world."





Indices down, turnover Rs. 808 million

CSE on up-and-down mode closes negatively

January 30, 2014, 7:46 pm

The Colombo bourse lost ground yesterday with the All Share Price Index down 24.88 points (0.40%) and S&P SL20 down 12.13 points (0.35%) on a turnover of Rs.808.3 million, down slightly from the previous day's Rs.809.3 million, with 126 decliners outpacing 81 advancers and 53 counters closing flat.

"With the market going down, we saw some buying coming in during the last hour of trading," a broker said. "The market being in an up and down mode, retailers particularly were keen on taking profit."

Four crossings in Aitken Spence (1.65 million shares), CTC (20,000 shares), Chevron (100,000 shares) and Ceylinco (18,100 shares) contributed nearly Rs.245 million to the day's turnover accounting for around 30% of the day's business volumes.

There were four parcels of Spence done at Rs.100, a single parcel of CTC at Rs.1,300, a parcel of Chevron at Rs.285 and a single parcel of Ceylinco at Rs.1,390.

``Declines in large cap, diversified and F & B counters pushed the ASPI lower while block trades in Spence, CTC, LLUB and CINS collectively accounted for 30% of market turnover,'' John Keells Stock Brokers said in their market report.

There was a foreign outflow of Rs. 216.48 million with purchases of Rs. 88.42 million and sales of Rs. 304.90 million which analysts saw as an indication of profit taking by foreigners too. However, they noted that there is yet a positive inflow from foreigners this year.

Expolanka was the most traded stock on the floor closing 50 cents up at Rs.9.40 on 9.1 million shares done between Rs.8.90 and Rs.9.40 contributing Rs.83.9 million to turnover. Union Bank followed, closing 20 cents down at Rs.19.70 on 2.2 million shares done between Rs.19.60 and Rs.20.80 generating Rs.44.4 million turnover.

Other most traded stocks included Nation Lanka Finance closing 60 cents up at Rs.9.60 on 3 million shares contributing Rs.28.5 million to turnover, Aitken Spence closing a rupee down at Rs.100 on nearly 0.3 million shares contributing Rs.28.1 million to turnover and JKH warrants W0023 closing Rs.1.10 down at Rs.79.90 on over 0.3 million.

JKH W0022 closed Rs.2.50 down at Rs.753.50 on over 0.1 million while JKH itself closed 70 cents down at Rs.240 on 20,219 shares.

CTC closed Rs.25.60 down on the floor at Rs.1,300 on 18,732 shares, Nawaloka closed flat at Rs.3.40 on nearly 4.8 million shares and Vallibel Power closed 20 cents down at Rs.5.90 on 2.2 million shares.

Commercial Bank (voting) closed 60 cents down at Rs.127 on 0.1 million shares and Piramal glass 10 cents down at Rs.4.70 on nearly 2.2 million shares.





Square peg in round hole?

Controversy surrounds appointment of Director of Sports of the Education Ministry

January 30, 2014, 9:39 pm

by Reemus Fernando

Controversy surrounds the promotion of a physical training instructor (a PTI holding a Teacher Service 2-2 grade) ahead of qualified officials, as the Director of Sports of the Education Ministry. Authorities have ordered senior officials of Education Ministry to prepare a cabinet paper to appoint the PTI attached to a school in Colombo to the vital position of Director of Sports of the Ministry of Education, 'The Island' reliably learns.

The controversial decision has left many senior officials in a difficult position as there are many worthy candidates for the position and given the controversial track record of the particular PTI.

"Director of Sports is a vital position in the Education Ministry. It is generally held by an official with a higher grade in the education service and with a proven track record. There are dozens of Directors of Sports in various provinces, divisions and hundreds of other qualified officials who can easily fit into this position. There are hundreds of officials who have better qualifications. There is something fishy about this," a source close to the Ministry of Education told 'The Island'.

According to a leading official, who wishes to remain anonymous, the decision to appoint the controversial official has already left many deserving candidates discouraged. "We can't comprehend as to what good the authorities plan to accomplish by appointing such an individual for this high post. Many are already discouraged," said the official.

The particular individual, held a secretary post of a Schools Sports Association two years ago, and received criticism for his conduct when he headed a contingent of school children for a sports event abroad recently.

"He coached a few athletes years ago, but has bogusly claimed credit for producing international level athletes. If you take that (training athletes for international level), as a criteria, then there are dozens of Directors of Sports in provinces and divisions and other PTIs who have done far better than him to be promoted to that position," claimed one official.

An analyst said that with a multi sports event for junior athletes (Youth Asian Games) to be hosted by Sri Lanka in 2017 what the country needs in this hour is a dynamic individual with a proven track record specially in scouting talent. "What the country needs at this moment is a dynamic individual who can scout talent and groom them to win medals at Asian Youth Games. If you pick a person who is not fit and largely unpopular among school athletes you will fail even before you start."





Towards resilient and stable financial institutions

Pathfinder Economic Alert

Roadmap for correcting past mistakes

January 30, 2014, 12:00 pm

Sri Lanka's financial sector has experienced significant developments since partial liberalization in the post-77 era. To move from a highly protected environment to a liberalized economy may have required some shock treatment such as the opening of the financial sector. However, unfortunately, the lack of a clear strategy and ad hoc approach to regulation has led to the emergence of a plethora of banking and non-banking financial institutions servicing a limited segment of the population and geographical areas of the island. In realizing that the financial system is the lifeblood of an economy the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) has drawn a roadmap for more a efficient and competitive financial system in the country. The efficiency of financial intermediation is a very important determinant of development outcomes. Above all, a stable financial system is a crucial element of a conducive business environment for supporting sustained growth. The recent global financial crisis has highlighted the hugely disruptive effects of instability in the financial system. Robust and stable financial institutions on the one hand and sound regulation on the other are the twin pillars that provide confidence to all stakeholders in the financial system.

One of the lessons of the global financial crisis was the instability associated with "too- large- to- fail banks". The removal of the Glass-Stegall Act in the US and financial deregulation in Europe facilitated the emergence of mega banks where the lines between retail banking and more risky investment banking were blurred. The problems were compounded by the emergence of sophisticated financial instruments (including derivatives) which amplified rather than diversified risks. The upshot was a near meltdown of the global financial system after the fall of Lehman Brothers and a massive tax- payer bailout of the too- large- to- fail banks. Since then, various measures are being introduced to strengthen the global financial system. Capital and liquidity adequacy ratios have been bolstered. Banks have been subjected to stress tests in order to assess their financial viability. In addition, the Volcker Rule in the US and ring-fencing in the UK have sought to separate the risks associated with retail and investment banking to ensure that the tax- payer is protected from the higher risks associated with various aspects of investment banking. The US financial system is further down the road to good health than European banks, where the restoration of stability is more of a work-in-progress.

Against this global landscape of attempts to mitigate the risks associated with too- big- to- fail banks, the CBSL's recent initiatives to press ahead with financial sector consolidation seems to go against the grain. However, such fears are misplaced as Sri Lanka's problem is very different. It is too much fragmentation of the financial sector. As already mentioned above, during the post-77 era, Sri Lanka has not had a clear roadmap for developing the financial sector. The local challenge is to build institutions with sufficient critical mass to withstand shocks and also meet the increasingly complex and sophisticated needs of a rapidly growing economy. A more relevant point of reference is the bank consolidation that has already been undertaken by Malaysia and Singapore to strengthen their respective financial systems.

The ASEAN Experience: From Mushrooming to Consolidation

Malaysia embarked upon a program to consolidate its financial sector immediately after the Asian crisis (1997). The number of financial institutions was rationalized radically. Within a year (1998), the number of finance companies was reduced from 39 to 8. Since then, all finance companies have been merged with banks. In addition, within three years (2000), 50 out of 54 banking institutions were consolidated into 10 banking groups. Singapore commenced its bank consolidation early this century. The six local banking groups were consolidated into three. The number of participants in Thailand's banking sector is scheduled to come down from 14 to 5. The Indonesian authorities have also highlighted the need for small banks to consolidate to address their weak capital bases.

In Malaysia and Singapore, where more progress has already been made, the authorities have played a very active role in facilitating the consolidation process. Consolidation has generated a number of benefits.

= Increased the critical mass (capital and asset bases) have strengthened the viability and resilience of financial institutions.

= Strengthened banks' capabilities, including their capacity to innovate.

= Built up management teams, with scarce talent becoming less dispersed.

= Enhanced operational effectiveness by reducing overheads, particularly through branch rationalization which served to reduce spreads.

= Greater attention to cost cutting, including IT development, to improve competitiveness

The CBSL has pointed out that the last 25 years have been characterized by a number of episodes which have had a destructive impact on the lives of ordinary people. During 1988-90, 13 Registered Finance Companies failed, 11 of which had to be liquidated. In 2002, there was a bank failure and depositors were rescued only in 2007. In 2009, the collapse of a large business group affected eight non-bank financial institutions which faced liquidity problems. They were gradually revived under Central Bank guidance. In recent days, there has been much publicity about the travails of another Registered Finance Company.

The recurrence of these problems raises fundamental questions about the viability of the current highly fragmented structure of the Sri Lankan financial system. There are 16 commercial banks. Only 5 of them (66% of market share) have an asset-base in excess of Rs. 500 billion. (There are 12 foreign banks which account for 10% of market share). There are currently 58 Registered Finance Companies (non-bank financial institutions). Of these, 17 account for 73% of the capital base. Overall, the whole non-bank financial institutions sub-sector accounts for only 7% of the total capital of the financial sector.

A Robust and Dynamic Financial System for Middle-Income Sri Lanka

The current structure is clearly unsuited for building a robust, stable and dynamic financial sector which is "fit for purpose" to support Sri Lanka's development process as a middle-income country. It is welcome and timely, therefore, that the Central Bank has embarked upon a program of consolidation. This is an essential pre-requisite for building sufficient resilience in the financial sector through mergers and acquisitions which build up the capital and asset bases of financial institutions.

The CBSL envisages a banking sector where at least five local banks will have assets of Rs. 1 trillion each, with such banks also building up their presence in the region. In addition, the DFCC and NDB are to be merged to establish one large development bank. The benefits of this consolidation in the banking sector are expected to include substantially lower net interest margins and investment in new productivity enhancing IT applications.

In the non-bank financial institutional sector, the CBSL envisages a reduction from 58 to about 20 institutions, of which around three would be specialized in microfinance. Increasing the capital and asset bases of finance companies would enable them to mobilize lower cost long-term funds and build greater resilience to shocks. Rationalizing the sector will also generate cost effectiveness which will improve its competitiveness. The conditions will also be created to improve corporate governance through strengthening boards and managing risks better. A smaller and stronger non-bank financial institution sector would also enable the CBSL to discharge its regulatory functions more effectively.

Key Challenges: Keeping to Tight Timeline

The CBSL has set a very tight timeline for the completion of the consolidation program. However, despite the tight timeline, it is crucial that strict due diligence is carried out in all transactions. There will be complex accounting, valuation, tax and human resource issues which would need to be addressed. The CBSL has announced that it will meet consultancy fees associated with these processes. It will also provide long-term advances through the Sri Lanka Deposit Insurance and Liquidity Support Scheme, on concessional terms, to match any capital infusion by a bank or a category 'A' non-bank financial institution taking over a category 'B' institution.

It is important to have open communications among the institutions involved in the consolidation process as well as with the CBSL. The CBSL is establishing a special unit to liaise between all stakeholders. It is also undertaking measures to strengthen the overall regulatory framework to align it with international best practices. One should also point out that the Government has introduced tax concessions to incentivise the consolidation process through the Budget Speech 2014.

Licensed commercial banks, for their part, will be required to increase their core capital to Rs. 10 billion by 1 Jan 2016 (Rs. 5 billion for Licensed Specialized Banks). They will also be expected to adopt Basle 3 Capital Standards.

The guidelines associated with the consolidation process stipulate that mergers/acquisitions must not lead to the "forcible retrenchment" of any staff member. It is to be hoped that this would be implemented in a manner that enables Voluntary Redundancy Schemes (VRS), supported by re-training programs. A major advantage of consolidation is the generation of cost efficiencies at various operational levels, including staffing. Some shake-out of employees is necessary to capture the benefits of a consolidation program. Bank staff are likely to be "relatively-highly employable" (with training where necessary) in a context where there are acute skilled personnel shortages in other key sectors of the economy. This process requires careful handling. People are key to making bank consolidation work. Minimizing the importance of human resource issues and processes are often the reason for the failure of mergers and acquisitions. It is important, therefore, that HR professionals are an integral part of the whole financial sector consolidation process.

Whither the State Sector?

The ultimate objective is to create a financial services sector which is not only stable and resilient but also competitive. In this respect, it is positive not only that the balance sheets of the two state banks have been strengthened through the reduction in the losses of SOE's, particularly the CEB and CPC following the electricity and fuel price adjustments but also that their share in total banking assets has been declining. Despite this the two state banks account for over 50% of the banking sector and their inefficiencies are a contributory factor to the high spread that characterize this sector.

In addition, the operations of the National Savings Bank (NSB) continue to be anti-competitive due to the concessions provided to it. The NSB has historically been a captive source of funding for the government budget. It has been argued that it serves as a substitute for the social security contributions which fund welfare programs in other countries. However, with the current increased commitment to fiscal discipline, consideration should now be given to creating a more level playing field. This would incentivize the development of other savings institutions, such as mutual and private pension funds which would mobilize much-needed long term financing in the economy.

As Sri Lanka moves forward to middle-income country status, ideological positions of yesteryears may need to be replaced with more pragmatic approaches to the challenging globalized environment. In this regard, the Pathfinder Foundation wishes to repeat a statement by former Chinese premier Deng Xiaoping "If a party, a country or a nation does everything by sticking to dogmas, follows an ossified way of thinking, and is prevailed over by superstition, then it can never move forward, its hope of life will die, and either the party or the country will be doomed". This statement applies to the emerging financial sector reforms as well.

Developing the Financial Architecture

The proposed bank consolidation process will increase the stability and resilience of the sector. However, this is only part of the story in terms of evolving a financial architecture that will sustain the development of the country in the medium to long-term. In this connection, it is important that the SEC and CSE continue their efforts to improve the workings of the stock market. This needs to be complemented by other measures to incentivise the continued development of the long-term debt market to complement the above mentioned efforts to promote mutual and pension funds. It is also important to encourage angel investors, venture capitalists and private equity.

This is the Fifty-Fifth Economic Alert published by the Pathfinder Foundation. Readers' comments are welcome at www.pathfinderfoundation.org





Rupavahini Viyaparika Kirula 2014

January 30, 2014, 10:40 pm

By Madura Ranwala

Minister of Telecommunication and Information Technology Ranjith Siyambalapitiya discusses with the business community and media sponsors the proposed 'Rupavahini Vyaparika Kirula 2014' competition at his ministry on Wednesday. Pic by Kanishka Hewage, Peliyagoda

Applications have been called for 'Rupavahini Viyaparika Kirula 2014' competition scheduled to take place parallel to Deyata Kirula, from February 21 to 27 in Kuliyapitiya, from the business community in the districts of Puttalam, Kurunegala and Kegalle to select the Best Entrepreneur in their respective districts and the overall Best Entrepreneur of the North Western Province.

The Island and the Divaina of Upali Newspapers (Pvt) Ltd. joined hands with the organisers of the event, Rupavahini Corporation.

The closing date for applications is February 7. Three workshops in three districts will be conducted on February 9, 10, and 11 in Puttalam, Kurunegala and Kegalle districts for the selected entrepreneurs.

Each Chamber of Commerce in the respective districts will select 15 entrepreneurs for the competition and they will be invited to a Breakfast Business Forum, where President Mahinda Rajapakasa, Economic Development Minister Basil Rajapaksa, Minister of Telecommunication and Information Technology and Kegalle District MP, Ranjith Siyambalapitiya and Central Bank Governor, Ajith Nivard Cabraal are expected to be present.

Each district will be provided with one hour slot from the televised time of Rupavahini Corporation in the first round to talk about their businesses.

Minister Siyambalapitiya requested all small, medium and large-scale businessmen in the aforesaid districts to make use of the opportunity provided by the Rupavahini Corporation to develop their business.

A meeting where the project was announced on Wednesday was attended by representatives from Sri Lanka Telecom, Bank of Ceylon and People's Bank representing business community. Representing Upali Newspapers, General Manager Advertising and Marketing, Dananjaya Vithanage and Rupavahini Corporation, Director General, Chandrapala Liyanage and Programme Producer, J. M. Dasanthamel participated as the co-media sponsors of the event.





Malinga released

January 30, 2014, 12:00 pm

Sri Lanka Cricket wishes to announce that it has decided to release Lasith Malinga for the forthcoming Big Bash semi-final to be played in Australia.

Malinga was recalled to the country for a Intense Training Programme and since he had shown a tremendous improvement in his fitness levels in the said training programme the National Coaching Staff together with the National Selectors took the decision to release him to play in the Big Bash.

As per the special request made by the Management of the Melbourne Stars to SLC, Malinga was given permission to proceed for the semi-final which will be played on the 4th of February 2014.





Govt.pushing Northern CM to extremism – MG

January 30, 2014, 10:21 pm

by Lal Gunasekera

Leader of the Democratic People's Front (DPF) Mano Ganeshan said yesterday that UPFA government, instead of protecting the Northern Provincial Council (NPC), was pushing its Chief Minister Wigneswaran into the hands of extremists. He said that the three resolutions passed by the NPC including the call for international probe on war crimes charges were the outcome of the failure of Mahinda Rajapaksa government to address the issues affecting the Tamil people.

Ganeshan told The Island that President Rajapaksa had failed to honour his promises to the Tamil community.

Government politicians accused the Tamil leaders of going to London, New York and Delhi, to discuss their problems, but Presidential Secretary Lalith Weeratunga and External Affairs Minister G. L. Pieris were also going around the world instead of going to Jaffna, Ganeshan said.

He urged the government to implement the 13th Amendment and grant more powers to provincial councils in keeping with President Rajapaksa's pledge to UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon and President Rajapaksa in May 2009.





Dog walks - A menace

January 30, 2014, 9:16 pm

A retired civil servant, resorts to a daily morning walk to beat my sedentary lifestyle and I am alarmed at the amount of pet dogs found along the thoroughfares in Colombo.

Stylish females, and at times pompous males, take their over-fed dogs for fresh air and physical exercise at the cost of a city's hygiene. There have been several occasions when I was almost attacked by those dogs during walks.

Unlike in the West, where dog owners have to collect the droppings of their pets, in Sri Lanka, we are at the mercy of their bowels being emptied! As we all know, today, Colombo has been given a facelift and beautified to restore its colonial grandeur. The metropolitan area of the city is meticulously maintained with roads swept and the garbage disposal system has been streamlined.

In such a backdrop, the dog pooh is a black mark on a beautified city. In picturesque areas of Colombo, such as the vicinities of the Colombo Campus, the rich masters take their beloved pets to stretch their muscles, leaving us poor walkers at their mercy.

Therefore, I kindly appeal to the relevant authorities to implement measure to impose laws making it mandatory for the owners to collect their dogs' pooh or to impose a fine on those who break the law. A specially assigned Police task force can be deployed in areas (ex: near the race course, Torrington) where walkers are found in abundance, to nab the offenders like the environmental police force who nab cigarette smokers on the streets.





AI tells India to back call for war crimes probe against SL

January 30, 2014, 10:10 pm

Ananthapadmanabhan, Chief Executive, Amnesty International India

BY S VENKAT NARAYAN , Our Special Correspondent

NEW DELHI, January 29:

India must support demands by civil society actors, UN officials and survivors of human rights abuses in Sri Lanka for an international investigation into alleged war crimes committed during the civil war, Amnesty International India said today.

Amnesty noted that the elected government of Sri Lanka's Northern Province also reinforced such calls on Monday by seeking an impartial global probe.

Last year, while supporting a UN Human Rights Council (HRC) resolution asking Sri Lanka to conduct an "independent and credible investigation", India had noted that such an investigation must be to the "satisfaction of the international community". Given the lack of progress from the Sri Lankan government's side, it is now time for facilitating an international investigation, Amnesty said.

On 27 January 2014, Sri Lanka's Northern Provincial Council passed a resolution calling for an international investigation into alleged war crimes committed during the country's armed conflict. The government came to power in a landmark election in September 2013.

"An elected body of representatives calling for an international probe shows how little faith some people in Sri Lanka have in any domestic mechanism," said G Ananthapadmanabhan, Chief Executive, Amnesty International India.

"India must take note of this resolution, and press Sri Lanka at every opportunity to conduct an independent international investigation into all allegations of crimes under international law committed by Sri Lankan government forces as well as the LTTE."

There is substantial evidence, including eyewitness accounts by civilians and humanitarian workers, that in the last months of the 2009 Eelam war, Sri Lankan government forces committed war crimes, including alleged enforced disappearances, extrajudicial executions, intentionally shelled civilians and protected areas such as hospitals, and blocked food and medicine from reaching civilians trapped by the fighting, Amnesty charged.

There is also evidence that the LTTE committed war crimes, including the use of civilians as human shields, killing individuals who tried to escape and recruiting child soldiers.

The Sri Lankan government continues to deny credible allegations of crimes under international law committed by its forces and to resist calls for independent investigation of senior officers allegedly responsible, several of whom remain in positions of authority.

In April 2013, a military court of inquiry exonerated the Sri Lankan military for civilian casualties in the last stage of military operations, concluding that any casualties that occurred were the fault of the LTTE. The inquiry's full report remains unpublished.

A second military inquiry into alleged extrajudicial executions of individuals who surrendered to or were captured by the Sri Lankan military in the final days of conflict was initiated in March 2013, but by the end of 2013 investigators had not even interviewed witnesses other than army field commanders.

"The chances of justice or truth emerging out of an army inquiry into its own alleged crimes are very slim indeed," said Ananthapadmanabhan.

Since the war's end, President Mahinda Rajapaksa has steered his country in what the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights has described as "an increasingly authoritarian direction". The government has concentrated powers in its own hands and led an assault on dissent, harassing and attacking critics including journalists, human rights defenders and opposition politicians.

"Sri Lanka has not kept several promises to conduct a credible investigation into past and present abuses and prosecute alleged perpetrators. India must keep the pressure up on Sri Lanka to do the right thing, accept an international investigation and cooperate with it" said Ananthapadmanabhan.

The government of the U nited States has said it will sponsor a third resolution on promoting reconciliation and accountability in Sri Lanka at the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva in March 2014.

In March 2013, India and 24 other countries voted in favour of a resolution calling on the government of Sri Lanka to conduct an independent and credible investigation into alleged violations of international law, and asking the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights to present a comprehensive report on Sri Lanka in March 2014.









Third consecutive US resolution targeting SL: Consultations in London after US official's Jaffna visit

January 30, 2014, 10:14 pm

Nisha

By Shamindra Ferdinando

Senior British officials dealing with the LTTE based in the UK will meet US Assistant Secretary of State Nisha Biswal early next week in London as they step up pressure on member states of the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) to back a third US resolution targeting Sri Lanka since 2012.

Biswal, an American of Indian origin is expected to be in London on Monday (Feb. 1).

Assistant Secretary Biswal will fly to London from Colombo after having completed a three-day assignment here. She is expected to meet senior government as well as Tamil National Alliance (TNA) representatives and visit Jaffna before leaving for meetings in the UK as well as Geneva.

Government sources alleged that India was being pushed by both the US and the UK to back the forthcoming resolution. India backed the two successful US resolutions in 2012 and 2013.

The US State Department announced that Assistant Secretary of State Biswal would focus on a range of bilateral issues, including post-conflict resolution, justice and accountability during her first visit to Sri Lanka. Discussions in London and Geneva would center on the proposed third resolution which was to be built on previous resolutions in 2012 and 2013.

The 47-member body is divided into five groups namely Africa (13 seats), Asia-Pacific (13 seats), Latin America and Caribbean (8 seats), Western European and other states (7 seats) and Eastern Europe (6 seats). Members of the council serve for a period of three years and are not eligible for not eligible for re-election after serving two consecutive terms.

The US embassy spokesperson told The Island that Assistant Secretary Biswal would address the media in Colombo on Saturday afternoon.

Biswal recently succeeded Robert O. Blake, the war-time US Ambassador in Colombo credited with an initiative which led to the US providing the intelligence leading to destruction of four LTTE floating arsenals on the high seas.

GoSL sources told The Island that various Diaspora groups too, were campaigning in support of the US-led resolution with the UK based British Tamil Forum (BTF) and the Global Tamil Forum (GTF) pressing foreign governments, separately.

A senior External Affairs Ministry official told The Island yesterday said that Sri Lankan High Commissioner in London Chris Nonis would attend a conference at the British parliamentary complex today (January 31) organized to discuss alleged Sate takeover of land belonging to Tamil speaking people in the Northern Province. A delegation of the Tamil National Alliance (TNA) is in the UK for the conference jointly organized by the BTF and the All Party Parliamentary Group for Tamils (APPG-T).

Sources said that the UK was trying to convince Commonwealth member states serving the UNHRC to vote for the US resolution. Although the British faced somewhat difficult task, EU members would vote together against Sri Lanka, they said, adding that Sri Lanka was in the process of making representations to member states. President Mahinda Rajapaksa already sent special envoys to several countries seeking their support at the next vote.









Wedding bells for Jagath and Premila

January 30, 2014, 12:00 pm

Jagath Kulatunga and Premila Fernando, two players who have captained the national basketball team, will enter wedlock today at Katunayake. Jagath has represented the national basketball men's team since early 2000 while Premila broke into the Sri Lanka women's basketball team in the late 1990s. A few years ago she was selected as Asia's Best Shooter.

Premila is a product of St. Joseph's Girls' School, Nugegoda while Jagath represented Maliyadeva College, Kurunegala.





Gurukula routs S. De S. Jayasinghe within day one

January 30, 2014, 10:57 pm

by Reemus Fernando

Sri Lanka Under-19 discard Roshan Anuruddha and his new-ball partner Jayamal Wanniarachchi guided Gurukula College, Kelaniya to a crushing innings and four runs victory over S. de S. Jayasinghe College in the Under-19 Division I cricket encounter ended with a day to spare at Prison Ground Mahara yesterday.

In what was probably the most one sided contest ever in Under-19 Division I cricket, Gurukula speedsters shared a match bag of 16 wickets to end the match on day one itself.

It is the first time in as many as three years that a two-day contest ended in the opening day.

While Wanniarachchi bagged nine wickets, Anuruddha impressed with good all round performances.

Playing for Sri Lanka Under-19 last year, Anuruddha was the Man of the Match in the series-deciding victory against Bangladesh Under-19. He was dropped by the selection committee headed by Sanath Jayasuriya when they selected the team for the forthcoming Youth World Cup.

An unbeaten 150 runs (in 183 balls, 23x4s, 2x6s) by Dulash Udayanga and a match bag of nine wickets from Malith Mahela guided Mahinda College to a nine wicket victory over St. Aloysius' College in the Under-19 Division I tournament match ended in Galle yesterday.

Medium paceman Shehan Nanayakkara picked up seven wickets in the second innings to complete a match bag of ten wickets as Carey College beat Sri Pangnananda College, Raddoluwa by 150 runs in their Division I match at Railway Ground Dematagoda yesterday.

Left-arm spinner Pasan Samaratunga picked up four wickets for just three runs as Rahula College restricted Sastrananda College, Dehiwala to 35 runs on day one of their Division II match at Uyanwatta Stadium, Matara yesterday.

While left-arm spinner Wenuka Galahitiyawa impressed with a six wicket haul for Dharmaraja College, Kandy, half-centuries from Senura Mamarasinghe, Woshantha Silva and Avishka de Silva helped Nalanda College post 239 runs on day one of their match at Campbell Place yesterday.





CEB in dumps, but its engineers' rewards rosy as ever

January 30, 2014, 12:00 pm

by Ifham Nizam

The Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) engineers should be blamed for the frequent breakdowns in power plants. Had they been doing their jobs properly in keeping with thumping emoluments paid to them, the CEB would not be in the current sorry plight, senior trade unionists allege.

They said the majority of some 800 engineers employed by the CEB were paid big salaries plus a further 80 per cent thereof as project allowances while the institution was losing Rs. 160 million per day,

A veteran trade unionist told The Island that it was understandable that they being qualified professionals should be paid accordingly. However, he said that the latest trend was for most of the engineers to claim a sum equivalent to more than 33 per cent of the salary for doing nothing but the routine work under the guise of projects.

The starting salary of a CEB engineer is Rs. 64, 560 per month and even an engineer with one year's experience gets an additional sum equivalent to half of his salary as an allowance. Most of the projects come under the Iranian funded Rural Electrification programme and there isn't much to do.

Almost all Deputy General Managers, Assistant General Managers and the General Manager was getting sums equivalent to more than 80 per cent of their salaries as various allowances. And taxes on such earnings are also paid by the CEB.

A senior CEB engineer said that it was nothing new and most of them could get a sum up to 65 per cent of the salary in allowances per month.





World Conference on Youth in Colombo

World Conference on Youth (WCY) would provide Sri Lanka with an opportunity to repair its image dented by past youth uprisings, Youth Affairs and Skills Development Minister Dallus Alahapperuma said.

WCY 2014 will take place from 6 to 10 May at the BMICH in Colombo under the theme: Mainstreaming youth in the post 2015 development agenda, with the participation of 1500 people from around the world.

Addressing the WCY official emblem launching ceremony at the Youth Affairs Ministry, Minister Alahapperuma said that the WCY would pose a challenge to Sri Lanka at a time when some countries were trying to tarnish its image.

Minister Alahapperuma said that the government had allocated Rs. 250 million for WCY through 2014 budget and his ministry expected to earn more funds from local and international businessmen.

According to National Youth Services Council (NYSC) Working Director Milinda Rajapaksa the conference was aimed at producing a joint document between states and youth, called Colombo Road Map (CRM). It is aimed at providing insights into intergovernmental negotiations in the post-2015 development agenda.





Govt. agrees to reduce size of pictorial warnings on packets of cigarettes

January 30, 2014, 10:21 pm

by Chitra Weerarathne

The Attorney General yesterday told the Court of Appeal that the Minister of Health was agreeable to reduce the size of the pictorial warnings to 70% of the display area of packets of cigarettes. He said warnings occupying 80% of the display areas were a concept of the National Authority on Tobacco and Alcohol.

The Ceylon Tobacco Company Pvt. Limited had filed a Writ Application against a recent gazette notification published by the Minister of Health making it mandatory for pictorial warnings to cover 80% of the display areas of packets of tobacco products. The petitioner wanted the Court to reduce the size of the pictorial warnings reasonably.

The Deputy Solicitor General Janak de Silva appeared for the respondent Minister of Health





Angelo Mathews is no moron

January 30, 2014, 9:16 pm

I read in 'The Island' of 23rd instant with much interest, Vipula Minuvanpitiya's article, 'A repetition in cricket history.'

However, I am surprised that he refers to Mathews as an unintelligent captain, which certainly he is not. Mathews had always led from the front and amply proved his astute captaincy in the second Test which we won. A captain has to take decisions not only intelligently, but also at times with some risk. If it pays, he's a hero, if it's otherwise, he's a villain. Let's give him more support, time and chance to build up a formidable side under him. But let's not repeat the sorry spectacle of un-sporty time wasting.





JVP docs blame govt

January 30, 2014, 10:41 pm

by Don Asoka Wijewardane

The JVP affiliated All Ceylon Government Medical Officers' Association (ACGMOA) General Secretary Dr. Jayantha Bandara yesterday said that the government was solely responsible for the delay in implementing the doctors' service minute.

Dr. Bandara added that the government was not trying to retain doctors in the country. Although medical faculties had been producing a large number of qualified doctors, only 17,000 had remained in the country. The remedy for retaining the doctors in the country was to implement the service minute. The ACMOA would never blame any public or independent organisations for delaying the minute. It was the responsibility of the government to implement it without delay. The ACGMOA was of the view that the implementation process would not take place in the foreseeable future. It was a great injustice meted out to the doctors.

The more powerful rival Government Medical Officers' Association with a membership of about 20,000 has, however, accused the Public Service Commission of purposely delaying the implementation of the 2006 circular on doctors' service minute and has now turned to the Cabinet to have it implemented bypassing the PSC





