I would appreciate the opportunity to comment on the important issue of generic drugs., I am by profession a "medical doctor" though I write to the news media on topics other than medicine such as politics and sport. I now practice as a consultant physician in Sri Lanka. In New York City, I was associated with an University Hospital , many state and one military hospital during a period of 23 years.

The enormous cost of drug bills on the economies make even richest countries in turn to generic drugs, which typically cost 50 to 70 percent less than their brand-name counterparts. In the US it is estimated that up to 60 percent of prescriptions currently dispensed are for generic drugs.

Definition of a generic drug

A generic drug is an exact copy of a brand-name drug whose patent has expired, allowing other manufacturers other than the innovating manufacturer to make it. It is identical in dosage, safety, strength, how it is taken, quality, performance and intended use. Since generics use the same active ingredients and are shown to work the same way in the body, they have the same risks and benefits as their brand-name counterparts.

Registration of Drugs

A country or State usually has a Drug Regulatory Authority (DRA), as does Sri Lanka. In the USA, the drug regulatory body is called the FDA.

A DRA usually is constituted as a team of physicians, statisticians, chemists, pharmacologists and other scientists to review a company's data, and proposed use for a drug. The DRA , due to its importance in the public health ,must be staffed by personnel of unimpeachable integrity, without conflict of interests and be accessible to practicing physicians, manufacturers, and ideally to petitions from the public too.

In the USA, the FDA approves generic versions of previously approved brand named drugs without the submission of clinical studies and other kinds of data that are required in a full new( Innovator) drug application..The manufacturer has to fully document the generic drug's chemistry, manufacturing steps, and quality control measures, and make sure that the raw materials and the finished product meet and conform to USP specifications. It has also to show that the drug maintains stability and sterility, and it needs to provide a full description of the facilities it uses to manufacture, process, test, package, and label the drug. It also may have to undergo FDA inspection of the manufacturing facility to assure compliance. The onus is on the drug manufacturer to show that the generic drug is "bioequivalent" to the brand-name drug. Almost every country in the world and every State in the US has its "approved drug lists" in which generic drugs, when available, are chosen to reduce cost. State medical programs pay only for drugs on this list, except under special circumstances. Private Health Insurance programs too, have their own such lists and do not reimburse participants drugs not on them.

It has to be noted that the FDA or the DRA in Sri Lanka, does not itself test drugs for quality. Contrary to the impression of some, a National Quality Control Lab cannot be expected to have the ability to test the quality of the myriads of drugs on the market. Complaints regarding quality are directed to the DRA and the manufacturer , who are the institutions that can resolve them.

Sri Lanka's DRA

As pointed out in the letters concerning this subject of generic drugs, the major problem in Sri Lanka is the superabundance of brands of the same drug, often over a wide range of prices. The DRA's failure to perform its basic function, either due to incompetence, malfeasance or both, is a major cause of the regulatory anarchy. Any drug approved by the DRA should be of the same quality, and as safe and effective as the brand drug; in fact it should be an "exact copy" as stated earlier. However doubts about generic drugs arise from prejudice regards the country of origin, or when the manufacturer is not well known, and also due to propaganda from the large brand name manufacturers who wish to protect their market share.

If there is lack of confidence in the DRA, these doubts are compounded in the minds of physicians and pharmacists. Thus they are unable to advise patients correctly. This opens the door to pressure from drug companies and other external sources.

Essential Drug List

An approved ("essential") drug list which includes a reasonable number of drugs in each category, permits the doctor and the druggist to be familiar with the drugs which can be dispensed, giving them insights and experience into their use The Pharmacist also does not have to stock several brands of the same drug. As is not unusual, Dr D P Athukorale has succeeded in disseminating his confusion, about generic drugs to the public. He has stated that Prof. Bibile's essential drug list is an "outdated document". As Professor Fonseka pointed out, it is the CONCEPT of an essential drug list, and not a particular essential drug list that Prof Bibile proposed.. Any simpleton would realise that the list itself must change with the advent of new drugs. DPA has also made statements such as "All the essential life–saving drugs used today have been discovered by famous brand drug companies"; and "less than 0.5% of all drugs available in SL pharmacies are pure generic drugs, and the remaining 99.5% consist of both cheap and expensive brands".

"It is only "brand drug" companies that make new (innovative") drugs; Generics companies are not in the business of making new drugs; they only make identical copies of a drug, when the patent has expired (except in India and Brazil which do not recognise patenting)..After all the decades DPA has been in practice, it is astounding that he does not know that a generic drug can be called after its chemical name or the generic drug manufacturer's brand name. There is no such thing as a pure generic drug. For Example the original (innovator) drug "Lipitor" can have its chemical name Atovastatin or its generic manufacturers brand name "Ator", or "Vasolip" etc. The original antibiotic "Vibramycin" can have Doxycycline (chemical name) or its generic manufacturers brand name "Microdox", "Doxyn' etc. Thus his statement that :"less than 0.5% of all drugs available in SL pharmacies are pure generic drugs" is pure gibberish.

It has also to be pointed out that a physician, however experienced or eminent he may be, cannot, on the basis of a claim of superior experience or expertise with a particular brand of drug, use a drug not approved by the DRA. He can of course petition it for inclusion of the drug in the "list". For example if only the generic antibiotic Doxyn mentioned above is approved, Vibramycin cannot be legally prescribed.

Lowering Drug Costs

In view of the extreme pressure on foreign exchange resources, given a competent, honest DRA without conflict of interest, would it not be wise for the government to be the main if not the sole importer of essential drugs. The government could contract with, if necessary with multinational companies based in countries in our region for regular supplies of drugs at mutually beneficial prices. In fact I believe this is the basis of the Pharmaceutical Benefit scheme(PBS), in Australia, which had the lowest drug prices in the "developed" world.

In Sri Lanka there is a bias against drugs imported from countries other than the West. In India, which does not allow drug patenting, generic manufacturers are thriving, and the competition is resulting in low cost high quality drugs. They have become major suppliers of low-cost generic drugs and drug ingredients to American consumers. It is reported that currently, almost 350 varieties and strengths of antidepressants, cardiac drugs, antibiotics and other drugs purchased by American consumers are made by Indian manufacturers. The American companies that import them usually do their own quality and safety testing. FDA officials say that they are not aware of any health problems caused by drugs imported from India, though of course they admit that there could be risk. Indian firms have won FDA approval to import more than 100 generic drugs in 2006.

Prof Bibile

Finally it is regrettable that certain individuals have sought to disparage Prof Bibile , and denigrate his achievements. I remember him as a teacher who was always ready to answer questions and discuss a problem. He was different from most others, who never having conceived an original thought, did not encourage thinking in their pupils. They simply dictated the same notes for copying, year in year out, which had to be reproduced at examinations. His little red book, "the national formulary" was its name, if I remember correctly, was a delight to read and a superb guide to the use of drugs In medical practice. As pointed out in letters on this subject ,the concept of a national essential drug list was a pioneering achievement and together with the State Pharmaceutical Corporation and the State Manufacturing Corporation have contributed greatly to the provision of quality, safe and effective drugs to the public of this country





