Has the Criminal Justice system served its purpose?by C. R. de Silva, President's Counsel, Attorney General Address delivered at the 15th Asian Crime Prevention Foundation AGMin Colombo on December 15.

It is no exaggeration to state that in Sri Lanka the Criminal Law is weighted more in favour of the accused than the prosecution. When a prosecutor strides into a criminal court with the sole view of proving his case, the dice is heavily loaded against him. Against this backdrop, I propose this evening to share with you the anxieties that torment us and some of the suggestions which might remedy the situation.

The rising incidence of crime, I would submit, is a concomitant of some structural drawbacks which prevail in our criminal justice system.

Let me take some of the salient features of our law to illustrate this situation.

Burden of proof

What is in effect burden of proof?. Though this term is used in different senses, in one sense it is the obligation of a party to establish his case depending on whether it is civil or criminal. As far as we are concerned, the term "burden of proof" means the overall burden or the legal burden that is incumbent upon the prosecution. The famous case of Woolmington established what is known to day as the golden thread principle. It states that the prosecution must establish the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt. But our evidence ordinance places the legal burden in certain matters on the accused. My contention is that in view of the limited instances in which the burden is cast on the accused, the prosecution has suffered immeasurably.

Having defined the term "proof" in Section 3 the evidence ordinance gives guide lines in Chapter 9 as to how the several burdens have to be discharged. The same Chapter deals with presumptions that a court may draw based on primary facts established by the prosecution.

When you take the case of an accused with whom recently stolen booty is found on his person, illustration (a) to Section 114 gives a judge a discretion to draw the presumption that the accused is either the thief or the receiver of stolen property.

Once the prosecution leads evidence of possession, the illustration states that the accused can just offer an explanation that is reasonably true. A crafty accused with a lofty imagination can easily rebut this presumption by an articulate exposition of a fanciful story. In other words there is no burden, legal or evidential, on the accused to prove anything here. For instance, if money bearing the same serial numbers that was lost was found on the accused this item of evidence is of high probative value. But our law does not place a legal burden on the accused to show that he was neither the thief nor the receiver with a guilty mind. Rather it only requires him to offer an explanation which is reasonably true having regard to the attendant circumstances.

Even the enactment of this presumption does not help the prosecution at all when an accused with the flair for a figment of imagination could defeat the operation of the presumption in favour of the prosecution.

One justification for not casting a legal burden on the accused is because such a burden is laid on him only when he pleads a general or special exception.

My contention is that there must be a structural release from our hide-bound notions of general or special exceptions.

Take the Section 27 recoveries. They are admitted in courts on the basis of a doctrine known as confirmation of truth by subsequent discovery. Take the case of an accused who removes a ring or necklace worn by a deceased victim after ravishing and murdering her. He goes and hands over this ill gotten gain to his wife. The police recovers this item on a statement made by the accused. The law on this as was postulated in R Vs. Krishnapillai 74 NLR 438 at 441, Etin Singho Vs. Queen 69 NLR 353 at 355 more recently in Keegal and Sheik Vs. A. G. (CA

171-172-95 of 30.04.1998 - Tony Martins Case) is that the discovery of a fact in consequence of a statement means only that he had the knowledge of that fact and no more.

This, I would submit, is a restrictive interpretation based on the age old Woolmington principle-that is an accused could just fold his arms and wait till the prosecution proves it's case. In this connection it is noteworthy that Justice Amaratunga in the case of Ariyasinghe and others Vs. The Republic gave a realistic interpretation to the effect of a recovery made under Section 27 of the Evidence Ordinance.

It is my contention that our traditional view that the burden lies on an accused to prove a fact which is especially within his knowledge should be extended to cover this situation as well. There must be a positive declaration by the legislature that the burden lies on the accused in this situation.

In fact Section 106 of the evidence ordinance states that whenever a fact is peculiarly within the knowledge of the accused, the burden of proof in

respect of it is on the accused.', This is a reproduction of a rule stated in the old English case of Turner (1816) 5 M and S 206.

England has since moved away from Turner but we still say that the accused must prove a fact only when it is within his peculiar knowledge. Look at the illustrations to this section - "A is charged with travelling on a railway without a ticket. The burden of proving that he had a ticket is on him." The cases on this section state that the prosecution must lead some prima facie evidence before the accused sets out to prove that he had a ticket - It was said so in the case of Sanitary Inspector Vs. Thangamani Nadar 55 NLR. In England the cases do not insist on prima facie evidence being led. In Oliver (1944) KB 68 it was stated that the prosecution need not give even prima facie evidence.

The modern trend in England is not to restrict the burden of the accused only to 'cases where he had knowledge. He has to prove a fact even when the prosecution has knowledge of that fact. The accused

cannot resile from his burden merely by showing that the prosecution has also peculiar knowledge of the same fact.

In R Vs. Edwards (1974) Crime Law Rev 540 (1975 Q.B. 27) it was stated that the courts could place the burden on the accused by looking at public policy and advancing modern trends. In this case Edwards was charged on indictment in Crown Court with selling liquor without a licence. The prosecution proved that he had sold intoxicating liquor but adduced no evidence showing that he had not got a licence. Nevertheless he was convicted. His appeal was dismissed. Lawton L.J. said "the common law, as a result of experience and the need to ensure that justice is done both to the community and to the defendants has evolved this exception - i.e. the exception of placing the burden on the accused". (Page 39 -40 of the judgement).

One could see here that whether Edwards had a licence was also peculiarly within the knowledge of the prosecution. The police could have easily checked with the licensing authority whether Edwards had a license. But the judges cast the burden on the accused.

In the recent case of Regina Vs. Hunt (1987) 1 All ER 1 the case of Edwards was approved by the House of Lords where it was stated that leaving the burden with the Crown at all times will seriously hamper prosecutions. This is an indication that the defence should also bear the burden in criminal cases. (per Lord Griffith at page 13 of the same judgment). I commend this decision to all those gathered here today as the yardstick which gives us some justification to cast the burden on an otherwise advantaged accused.

I articulate the proposition that there should be reversal of burdens on the accused in order to arrest the rising tide of crimes. My view is that a mere explanation alone is not sufficient.

Dock Statements

Dock statements are anomalous features that hamper our prosecutions. I -propose that they be repealed and abbrogated from our law. In England there was a time when the accused were prohibited from giving evidence because they were so indigent that they did not have the wherewithal to retain counsel. When they gave evidence unassisted by counsel they virtually damaged their cases and as a result the English Law prohibited them from giving evidence. Instead English Law conferred on them the right to make a dock statement. This is the genesis of dock statements in England. We too imported dock statements into our law from England. It was first recognized by Bertram C.J. in King Vs. Vellayan Sittambaram 20 NLR 257. The right to make a dock statement was abolished in England by Section 72 of Criminal Justice Act 1982. Though the country of its birth has abolished this right, dock statement continues to flourish in Sri Lanka the accused, as you are aware, enjoys a number of advantages through a dock statement.

1. He cannot be cross-examined.

2. He can freely attack prosecution witnesses. 3. He can incriminate a co-accused.

Even though it is the mere ipse dixit of the accused, it has to be treated as substantive evidence. Sri Lankan

Law further states that if one neither believes nor disbelieves a dock statement, the resulting position is that he must be acquitted. Is it fair to retain this right in this country? How is a Judge going to say that he does not disbelieve an accused without cross examination? This is to my mind a glaring anomaly.

Section 120 of the Evidence Ordinance declares an accused to be a competent witness and when he gives evidence he shall be treated like any other witness (please see section 120 (6) ). If section 120 gives him the right to give evidence and stand the scrutiny of cross examination, why should we bestow upon him a further right to make dock statement which remains

untested? My position is that the existence of dock statements in our law is inconsistent with the scheme of our evidence ordinance., if England has abolished it after giving an accused the right to give evidence, why can't we do it here?

They say that a dock statement is evidence. Then if it is evidence, I submit that the prosecution must get the right to cross examine the accused. How best can

a judge evaluate a dock statement without the benefit of a cross examination? That is why it was described quite derogatorily as an ejaculation uttered by an auditor in court (Monis Appu Vs. Heen Hamy 26 NLR 303 at 305).

I now turn to confessions.

Confessions

Confessions are admitted as exceptions to the hearsay rule. Section 25 provides that no confession made to police officer is admissible against the accused. Take the case of an accused who happens to meet a police officer just after committing a crime.

The accused makes a confession to this police officer who is totally unconnected to the crime.

This evidence cannot be utilised because of this embargo on confessions to police officers. Let me look at another ouster of confession that is in section 26 of the Evidence Ordinance.. Section 26 excludes a confession made by any person whilst in custody of a police officer unless it was made in the immediate presence of a Magistrate.

Sometimes police officers produced suspects to a doctor. The doctor might send the police officer out and interview the accused in closed chambers. On inquiries made by the doctor the suspect may come out with a confession. Why should not this evidence be permitted to be led? In evaluating the undesirability of excluding confessions, it is incumbent on the prosecution to exclude the appearance of inducement, threat or promise.

Why can't the prosecution be allowed to use this confession made to a doctor if the prosecution

excludes the appearance of inducement, threat or promise.

It is a pity that judiciary has placed a restrictive interpretation on the words "police custody" - in Poulier Vs. Abeygunawardena 41 NLR - the accused who was in police custody was taken before an A.G.A. to have statement recorded. The A.G.A. sent the police out, recorded the statement and handed back the accused to the police. It was held that the statement was made while under custody.

In the teeth of the rising tide of crimes, both the judiciary and legislature must shake off their shackles to move away from this kind of restrictive approach. Take the case of admissions - In Anandagoda Vs. The Queen 64 NLR 73 - the accused was convicted purely on admissions. Today there is an absolute embargo on admissions by virtue of section 110 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act.

Should a blanket embargo continue to haunt us any more? I leave these issues to be re-evaluated.

Alibi

The defence of alibi i.e. the accused was not there at the scene is relevant because of Section 11 of the evidence ordinance. Whose burden is it to prove alibi? Under Section 103 of the Evidence Ordinance the burden should lie on the accused to prove alibi. Unfortunately recent cases have reiterated the position that there is no burden on the accused to prove alibi - please see Gunapala Vs. Republic of Sri Lanka (CA 26/91 - 23.3.1993) and Siriwardena, Vs. A.G. (C.A. 70/91 - 31.3.1993)

The Court of Appeal held that if the trial Judge imposes a burden on the accused it is a misdirection. Then what happens to the salutary principle contained in Section 103 of the Evidence Ordinance? Ratanlal in his commentary on Section 103 of the Indian Evidence Act has stated that alibi must be proved by the accused. One wonders whether our law permits two standards for alibi. Only the legislature can clarify this inconsistency.

Non Summary Inquiries

It is true that the increasing rate of crimes is also due to laws delays. What happens today is that if a trial is taken up today further trial is taken up 6 months later. This is undesirable as far as the speedy administration of Justice. There must be a structural arrangement to over come this problem. Non Summary Inquiries are another example of laws delays.

The main objects of a Non Summary Inquiry are;

1. that the accused must be given notice of the case for the prosecution of indictable offences; and

2. that there should be a judicial review of the evidence available to the prosecution in order that an accused should not be put on trial unless there is sufficient evidence to establish a prima facie case against him. What happens today is a travesty of justice.

Witnesses attend Magistrate's Courts on more than one occasion - some times after a lapse of 6 months from the previous appearance. The time consuming inquiry delays the hearing of the trial by months and sometimes by years. Such delays may help an accused because they weaken the case of the prosecution. It is axiomatic that every day's delay in the hearing of a witness's evidence at the trial affects his recollection of the facts and must necessarily impair the impression he makes on the trial judge or jury.

Therefore it is welcome that the non summary inquiry will only in a limited form. The abolition of non summary inquiries in cases of statutory rape is yet another step in that direction.

Day to day trials and inquiries should become the order of the day by legislative decree. One has to bear in mind the cardinal principle -

"In justice is done not only where an innocent accused is convicted, but also when a guilty accused is acquitted. The desirable object in devising a system of criminal procedure is therefore to avoid either situation."

Lord Ellenborough's presumption

When an accused fails and omits to explain away incriminating evidence adduced by prosecution witnesses our courts have cited with approval the famous Lord Ellenborough's dictum to drive home the conviction of the accused.

In my view this salutary principle should be given legislative expression. The off quoted principles laid down by Lord Ellenborogh in Rex Vs. Cochrane in Gurney's Report at page 479 go as follows;

"No person accused of a crime is bound to offer any explanation of his conduct or of circumstances of suspicion which attaches to him, but nevertheless if he refuses to do so where a strong prima facie case has been made out when it is 'in his own power to offer evidence if such exists in explanation of such suspicious circumstances, which would show them to be fallacious and explicable consistently with his innocence, it is a reasonable and justifiable conclusion that he refrain form doing so only from the conviction that the evidence so suppressed or not adduced, would operate adversely to his interest."

In my view if legislative sanction is given to this principle the laws to curb the rising number of crimes would be strengthened.

Let me also leave with you the concept of the investigating Magistrate. It is certainly an alternative approach adopted in the continental legal systems in Europe. Their method is to place responsibility for investigating serious crime in the hands of an independent person who is not part of police force. They are commonly referred to as investigating Magistrates and they supervise and direct the police investigation. Their approach, is epitomized in the following words of a French investigating Magistrate.

"The principle on which I operate are essentially to be free from all external pressures, to have no ideas and no hunches, to be totally practical and know nothing about anyone. My whole intention is not to be prejudiced, not to come to a case with preconceptions and above all to protect the rights of people. In the process of questioning someone I might be rude, I might be aggressive but I am only playing a game, a game which assists me in discovering the truth. I always strictly apply the rules because once you allow your self to indulge in a personal interpretation of an event, the ground beneath you becomes very weak."

I would recommend the adoption of this approach at least in so far as terrorist crimes are concerned. In these cases often evidence is not forthcoming and the prosecution has to rely solely on confessions made by accused persons. In such a situation, this approach would be very helpful to instill judicial confidence on the available evidence. I dare say all the problems we face in the investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences would be eliminated by this approach. But however, this would enhance the credibility attached to the investigation resulting in the judiciary taking a more favourable view of testimonial trustworthiness of the prosecution evidence. By recommending this approach, I am not for a moment casting aspersions on the efficiency and the integrity of the Sri Lanka Police. The present judicial thinking seems to militate against the acceptance of confessions made to Police Officers. This is clearly demonstrated by the rejection of confessions in the majority of cases. The approach that I am suggesting would necessarily give an independent flavour to the investigation and would thereby enhance the testimonial trustworthiness of the police officers. The net result of the adoption of this approach would be enhance the chances of a successful prosecution and thereby bring the offenders of horrendous crimes to book.

In conclusion I must say that the laws of the country as they stand today are not quite adequate to deal with the rise in crime. But I would leave you with these thoughts so that you could ponder over their utility value.





