Ms Hall has been cast opposite Colin Firth in an adaptation of Oscar Wilde's The Picture of Dorian Gray.

The 26-year-old leads a shortlist of five young actors for the Orange Rising Star Award, which recognises those who have demonstrated "exceptional talent" in the early stage of their careers.

Miss Hall, daughter of theatre director Sir Peter Hall, won her first lead role last year in Woody Allen film Vicky Cristina Barcelona, playing an American girl who falls for a womanising artist during a holiday in Spain.

Critics rhapsodised over her performance when the film premiered at the Cannes Film Festival, claiming she outshone her more established co-stars, Scarlett Johansson and Penelope Cruz. It opens in the UK next month.

Miss Hall received her first big break aged eight when her father, the theatre director Sir Peter Hall, cast her in television drama The Camomile Lawn. A former head girl at Roedean, she won a place at Cambridge University but dropped out in her second year to pursue her dream of becoming an actress. She secured bit parts in film and theatre before catching Allen's eye.

Her next role is opposite Colin Firth in an adaptation of Oscar Wilde's The Picture of Dorian Gray.

The Rising Star Award was announced in advance of the other Bafta nominations, which will be released next Thursday.

Miss Hall is the only female contender. The other shortlisted actors are Michael Fassbender, Noel Clarke, Michael Cera and Toby Kebbell.

Fassbender played IRA hunger-striker Bobby Sands in the controversial film, Hunger, taking the role so seriously that he lost nearly three stone in 10 weeks as preparation. Clarke wrote and directed the critically-acclaimed Kidulthood and its follow-up, Adulthood, but is best known to television viewers as Mickey Smith in Doctor Who.

Kebbell has appeared in Guy Ritchie's RocknRolla and recently completed work on the forthcoming Disney adventure, Prince of Persia. Cera is a Canadian-born actor whose roles to date include Juno and Superbad.

Previous winners of the Rising Star Award are James McAvoy, Shia LaBeouf and Bond girl Eva Green. It is the only Bafta category to be voted for by the public and was created in memory of Mary Selway, the casting director who died in 2004.

The Baftas will be held on February 8 at the Royal Opera House and broadcast on BBC One. Jonathan Ross, who completes a three-month broadcasting ban this month over his role in the 'Sachsgate' affair, will host the event.





