Mr Somapala Gunadheera raised an interesting issue in his piece titled Exclusivity of the Sri Lankan Tamil Psyche dated January 19, as to why the Tamils were "mellow, forgiving, tolerant" in their treatment of the two 'Cup' claimers. I must credit Mr Gunadheera for having asked such a fascinating question.

It is a very important aspect of Tamil culture (by this I mean the prevalent Hindu culture) and even though the current militant conditions that prevailed in this country may have corrupted it to some extent it is still part and parcel of every Tamil's ethos. The essence of this is always treat your guests with honour and respect even if they have done harm to you or even if they are your worst enemies (it is not implied that the 'Cup' claimers are the Tamils worst enemies but they are no friends either).

The Virunthombal Kalacharam as it is known is an inbred characteristic of Tamil culture and it is even said that there is no greater sin than to disrespect the guests who have come to your house. Our parents and teachers taught Virunthombal to us from the time when we were very little. Therefore, even if your worst enemy were to come to your house, you should welcome them in with an open heart and make sure that they have all the necessary comforts and that they are well fed.

Thiru Valluvar (the god poet as he is known) said this better than anyone else when he said Inna seidhaarai oruththal avarnaana, nannayam seidhu vidal meaning "The (proper) punishment to those who have done evil (to you), is to put them to shame by showing them kindness in return, and forget both the evil and the good done (by you)".

I do not know why the Indian Tamils behaved the way they did (since this is part of their culture as well) but I can guess. This protest was not organised by normal Tamils but was organised by Dravidian elements and nothing is more abhorrent to them than proper Tamil (Hindu) culture.

I have never read the Jathika Chintanaya by Gunadasa Amarasekara so I cannot comment on that, but all I can say is it is people like that who are directly or indirectly responsible for this country's present predicament. The LTTE (as it did with many things) did not follow Tamil culture, and this was one of the main causes of its downfall.The concept of Virunthombal is not limited to Tamils as such but is an integral part of Hinduism and is mentioned in the Vedas. The verse Atithi Devo Bhavah from the Taittiriya Upanishad means that the "guest is God" and should be treated like a deity. As I mentioned earlier there is no greater sin then to disrespect the guests who have come to your house.

So, it should come as no surprise that the Tamils treated them as such and even after all that they have been thru if someone asks them about it, they harbour no hate towards their liberators or subjugators (whatever way someone may want to look at it).





