"In Sri Lanka, hardware, software and especially connectivity cost is very high. It is one of the highest in the world," Professor Tissa Vitarana. Minister of Science and Technology said. "For three years I have been trying to lower the cost. It is high time that the Sri Lanka Telecom take suitable action to bring down the cost of connectivity."

Speaking at the opening ceremony of "Java Sri Lanka 2009", Sri Lanka's first ever national software exhibition and conference held at the BMICH, he said, the cost of both software and hardware should be brought down.

He said, he believed that the application of appropriate software was vital in various economic and social development fields in the country enabling young people access to software solutions.

"In this regard promotion of Java technology is appropriate which is one of the emerging technologies." Vitarana said.

He said that the late Professor A. K. Samaranayake was very keen in introducing Java technology three years ago.

The company has introduced 5,000 computers in Java and hopes to increase it up to 500,000.

Vitarana said, the ICT industry too had been affected with the economic recession, but would not be very badly affected as the other industries.

According to the Minister, India had already developed business outsourcing, an area which is tremendously helping professions such as accountants, doctors, engineers and scientists. More and more companies were turning towards business outsourcing.

"Seventy seven per cent of our population live in rural areas, hence we have to access the village and create more job opportunities using the human resources available there. There are already 237 computerized Vidatha Centres established in the country,"he said.

He also said, the year 2009 had been declared as the year for Technology and English education.

Java Sri Lanka had decided to introduce the Java Technology to the school curriculum and in order to implement the subject, teachers who are teaching Information Technology would be trained. This programme was initiated in January.

Meanwhile, information on sacred and religious places in Sri Lanka would be entered into the internet. This opportunity was also provided through "Java Sri Lanka 2009" which was held under the theme 'Java Technology to build the Nation for the Knowledge of Economy".





