Tea projections from Brokering sources are that India would get ahead of their crop loss quotient, Kenya would surpass its deficit Malawi continues its prosperity curve and Sri Lanka too would recoup crop losses and be more competitive in 2010.

The Food and Agriculture Organisation ( FAO), projections are likelihood of production superseding demand cannot be ruled out and opening new markets is no more an option but intense necessicity. True the US presently depends on Argentina and South American states for their supplies which in any case are not top grade teas, and only goes into their soft drink beverage market.

It is there fore necessary that leading producer countries intensify their marketing and sales strategies to meet a growing threat such as that envisioned by the FAO.

Could Sri Lanka go it alone? We cannot, but taken in unison with other tea growing countries it will end in prosperous futures for the Tea Industry.

Locally we are still dependent on prices; good now; but will it last is an area we examined last week.

It is correct to assure ourselves that Sri Lanka is a major player in world tea Production and could exert clout in decisions that affect all global players. More easily said than done, but have we the innovative options to offer an international group at a similar talkathon? It would take some doing, but given the evolution in thinking, we described last week, and meeting international options could work out to be that Sri Lanka could offer tangible alternatives. We have gone through the rough and tumble of three sets of ownership origins. The British, the State, and now locally run Plantation Companies.

We have in the meantime lost quite some end user destinations for Ceylon Tea, but sadly have not looked for or gained new trade partnerships to for instance match Egypt, the UK, or Pakistan. This would need priority attention in the new Year, but who would give leadership to ensure such options would prevail and be sustained.

Intense unification of the Tea Board, the Regional Plantation Companies (RPCC), the Colombo Tea Traders, Association, (CTTA), The Planters' Association of Ceylon, (PA), Tea Exporters' Association (TEA),Private Tea factory Owners Association, and the Tea Small Holders, should all be incorporated to discuss and work at short term time frame to ensure success.

Like it or not, Tea has always been the sustaining power behind the exchequer. Some might say garments, maybe; but take off the 80 odd percent imported input, and garments would fall flat on their faces. Middle East labour? An extremely fragile origin for forex earnings. Which already proved its uncertainty, because the labour market there had reached saturation. We are left with tea.

Sometime in 2008, Minister Dr. Sarath Amunugama said the country depended on two solid pillars, one was Tea and the other garments. Garments has now dropped out of the common lexicon for prosperity computation, but tea remains.

It is now intensely relevant that we ask who will take leadership to ensure Ceylon Tea will gain new markets and equate such progress with renewed thinking.





