HA-HAH! GOOD-LOOKING PEOPLE are not very nice to know, while ugly ones are total sweethearts.

Well, okay, maybe it is not quite as neat as that. But let's just say that gorgeous people with supermodel faces are inevitably evil, poisonous hags, while plain folks are funny, clever, charming people with the saintliness of Mother Teresa. This has ABSOLUTELY NOTHING to do with the fact that on the "Perfect Ten" scale, the present writer scores Minus 20.

This issue is being hotly debated after the ejection of 5,000 people last week from a web-based dating club called Beautiful People. (Screen shot above.) The club refused to renew the memberships of anyone who had put on a few pounds over the recent holidays.

To join this international club, you post your photo on www.beautifulpeople.com and members vote you on or off in 48 hours. Most are instantly voted off. Some Asian countries have a high rejection rate: 90 per cent of applicants get the thumbs down in Japan and 85 per cent in China.

"It's so shallow," one reader wrote to me. "Surveys prove that ugly people are more beautiful inside, surely?"

I hoped he was right, but decided to look for evidence. I plundered the psychology reports in the university libraries.

To my horror, I found that psychologists have for years believed in a connection between beauty and goodness. The theory is that attractive people could end up with sunnier, more positive personalities, because they go through life receiving better treatment than the rest of us. And studies show children always connect beauty with goodness, having been brainwashed with thousands of fairy tales in which pretty blond princesses triumph over black-haired, hook-nosed witches.

But more recent studies suggest the opposite is true. Ugly people work harder at relationships and at life in general, and thus develop more character.

*

Yet the most compelling evidence for me came not from scanning psychology papers, but from talking to a gentleman (actually, that's probably the wrong word) who spends a lot of time buying companionship in bars in various cities in Asia. He claims to have surveyed hundreds of women over a long, sleazy lifetime.

"Never choose the prettiest girl in the bar," he told me. "They have the world at their feet and are curt, rushed and unfriendly. The least attractive girls in the bar are a much better choice. They are inevitably nice young women who appreciate a bit of attention and are worth spending time with."

In the comedy business, it's well-known that attractive people can't tell jokes. Stand-up comedian Jim Norton told an interviewer last week that if you're cute, you're probably not funny. "You don't have to develop the other side of your personality," he said. "Carol Burnett is a comic genius, but she has a horse head."

(Right: Carol Burnett)

The most interesting reaction came from a tech-headed reader named Sandy. "Dating websites like beautifulpeople claim to have hundreds of thousands of gorgeous men and women as members. I suspect many of the hunky guys are actually short, fat, bald men with a talent for Photoshop. But you know the really scary thing? I suspect many of the beautiful women are also short, fat, bald men with a talent for Photoshop."





