Laver returns 50 years after Grand Slam

MELBOURNE, Australia (AP) — When Rod Laver beat Roy Emerson to win the Australian Open title in 1962, the event was played on grass, in Sydney and as an amateur, he took home no prize money.

Much has changed in tennis since Laver's victory 50 years ago, but one thing has remained the same. No other man has been able to match his feat from that year — winning the "Grand Slam," or all four majors in the same calendar year.

The Australian tennis great didn't just do it once; he replicated the feat as a professional player seven years later after the Open Era began and professionals were again permitted to enter the majors.

"I would say the toughest was probably the first, but the most satisfying was probably the second because I had all the players in the world were open and playing," the 73-year-old Laver said Wednesday in a visit to Melbourne Park.

"I was just honored to be able to pull it off. You don't start off trying to win the Grand Slam ... My ability, I felt it was possible to win tournaments, but not a Grand Slam."

American Don Budge is the only other player to win the Grand Slam in 1938. Many men have been close since Laver's second slam in 1969 by winning three of the four majors, including Roger Federer (2004, 06, 07), Rafael Nadal (2010) and Novak Djokovic (2011), but none has been able to capture all four in a single season.

Laver acknowledges, however, that the game has changed dramatically since his days and players face enormously different pressures, which makes it far more difficult to have long, injury-free careers.

"When you're playing amateur tennis, just playing in the tournaments, you don't have the criteria of who wants to win it," he said. "No one was really high on, 'I've got to win this tournament for my career.' There was no career, because you're playing amateur tennis. There's no money in it."

The way the ATP Tour is structured now, he said, players must compete week in, week out in order to maintain their rankings. The talent has also improved to such an extent, there are few "easy" matches anymore.

"The first round (in any tournament) could have been a final last week. You've got to play your best tennis from the word 'go,'" said Laver, who won 11 major titles. "Back in my era, there were players that you would think would win the tournament. You had an easier one or two rounds."

The top players have been advocating for changes to the tour in recent months — and some are prepared to go as far as striking to make their point. Many believe the tournament schedule is too long — and has taken a toll on their bodies — and that prize money has not increased in line with growing profits at the four majors.

Laver said the players are certainly better off financially now than he was in the late 1960s when the first professional circuit, known as the World Championship Tour (WCT), was established.

"You're probably talking to the wrong person saying, 'Is the prize money enough?'" he said. "It's a different world. To play for $10,000 in those WCT matches, that was big money in our world because we just left open tennis, and I turned professional. There was nothing like that sort of money out there."

The men's and women's champions at the Australian Open will each receive $2.4 million in prize money, with the losing finalists getting $1.2 million. The 64 men and 64 women who lost in the first round of singles received $21,800.

"Being able to see the winner is going to walk away with $2 million is great for the sport," Laver said.

Laver joked that the players have it much better today when it comes to conditions at tournaments, as well. They might complain about bad calls, but at least they have technology like the Hawk-eye video replay.

"There were suspect umpires at times," he recalls of his playing days. "You had to be a certain age before you could get into Wimbledon to be a linesman. At the same time, you look back and the linesman is asleep."





From Russia with Love: Middle income Russians flock to Lanka

January 25, 2012, 9:17 pm

By Harischandra Gunaratna

Deputy Economic Development Minister Lakshman Yapa Abeywardena said that some areas in the south coast was full of Russian tourists and during the festive season other guests had to look for rooms elsewhere.

"Last year we had 21,385 Russians visiting the country while the number was only 13,278 in 2010. This year tourism authorities expect at least 30,000 Russians to visit the country by the end of the year," the deputy minister said.

Industry sources attributed the increase in the number of Russian tourists visiting the country mainly due to the availability of direct flights between Colombo and Moscow which was inaugurated a few months ago.

Chandra Wickramasinghe, Chairman of Connaissance De Ceylan, a leading tour operator and a hotelier said that Connaissance Moscow,a subsidiary of his company has been bringing in a large number of Russians to Sri Lanka and the advantage is that their period of stay which is of an average of 12-14 nights is longer than the period most other tourists stay and they are also higher spenders.

Asked about the category of spenders coming here from Russia, Wickramasinghe said that it was mostly the middle income group.

He said that there was a 45 percent increase in the arrivals of this segment of the market in 2011 compared with the previous year and the turnover also increased by 50 percent.

The whole scenario changed with the dawn of peace in Sri Lanka and subsequent introduction of direct flights with Sri Lanka Airlines and Aeroflot entering the fray.

"With these two factors coming in place the tour operators were able to convince more Russians to visit Sri Lanka," he said.

Aeroflot flies direct Moscow-Colombo-Moscow and this is a shot in the arm for Lanka's tourism , Wickramasinghe pointed out adding that a number of Middle Eastern airlines are also bringing in many Russian tourists to Colombo .

Answering a query that more Russians visit the Maldives than here, Wickramasinghe said the two products and the advantages and disadvantages cannot be compared but admitted that there is privacy for tourists in the Maldivian archipelago with hotels spreadout in over thousand islets which provides the privacy they need. On the other hand there are many modern diving schools and facilities for watersports .

But the advantage we have is that we have many others such as culture, heritage mountains, rivers and the ocean added with abounding beauty and lush greenery where the tourists enjoy a 4-5 day round tour and then the beach.

There are more water based recreational activities being introduced in Sri Lanka and with the opening of the east coast, more tourists are scheduled to the visit the area, he said.

"In the beaches in the east coast there is more privacy for tourists and the calm seas would be a big attraction for them," the veteran hotelier added.

A number of hotels (at least 15) are being built in Passekudah and most of them would commence operations by the end of 2012, he said.

Wickramasinghe is the first hotelier to build and operate a hotel in Passekudah in the post war period with the popular "Maalu Maalu".boutique hotel.

Duleep Samaraweera, Sales Director of Aeroflot Airlines said that their fights were full during the festive season and would maintain a load factor of around 60 percent during the winter season.

Samaraweera, a seasoned campaigner where the Russian tourist market is concerned having served the airline since the early seventies was of the opinion that Russians love to visit Sri Lanka and with aggressive campaigning we should strive to capture the high end Russian market.

"They love the beaches and are good spenders," he said.

Unfortunately, at the moment more of the high end segment of the Russians visit Maldives than Sri Lanka, he added.

Russians holyday makers love the southern beaches of Sri Lanka and want to be far away from the hustle and bustle and most of them are in the resorts from Wadduwa to Dickwella.

According to the General Manager of the five star Heritance Ahungalle, Reffhan Razeen, over 50 of its 152 rooms are occupied by Russians. The hotel enjoys an occupancy rate of 80 percent.





School van driver with one hand nabbed

He had been driving since 1997 without accidents His son lost leg at the hands of able-bodied driver

January 25, 2012, 9:36 pm

By Norman Palihawadane

The Cinnamon Gardens Police nabbed an amputee driving a school van with one hand yesterday morning.

Sixty two –year-old Bernard Wijesiri was produced before the Hulftsdorp Magistrate's Court and enlarged on bail. His licence was retained by the police.

The amputee was transporting children to three leading girls' schools in Colombo from the Kotugoda, Yagodamulla area in Ja-Ela at the time of the detection, the police said.

The driver told police that he had obtained his driving license before his right hand was amputated following an accident. The van used for transporting children belonged to him and when he had to change gears he had used the stump of his right arm to control the vehicle.

Police released the vehicle and ordered an able-bodied driver be employed.

Bernard told The Island that he had been driving vehicles since 1997 in that condition and he had not met with any accidents.

"When I was nabbed by the police, they took me to the police station like a pick pocket. I lost all hope and felt forlorn, but the judge thanked me for the services rendered in transporting children to school safely even without a hand, said Bernard.

Speaking from his humble home, he said with yesterday's detection he lost his sole livelihood and he was not in a position to employ a driver and even if he did it would be a loss.

Bernard had worked in Saudi Arabia prior to 1997 and lost his arm in an industrial accident there . He said "with the money I received as compensation I bought a Hi-Ace van and started a school service after returning home".

"I have been transporting 17 school children at a time for so many years and never met with an accident. The parents of those children have complete trust in me and I can drive better than those who have both hands, Bernard said.

Said Bernard "I have even driven people to far away places such as Nuwara Eliya and Kataragama in my vehicle. Never has there been a single complaint".

"I have been very helpful to the people of my village and whenever someone falls sick needing hospitalization it is I who take them to the hospital. They always come seeking my services," a distraught Bernard said.

Disaster struck this Samaritan again recently when his son was knocked down by a lorry transporting cement and one of his legs had to be amputated .

"Fortunately he has since found employment in an establishment in Katuinayake and we are thankful to those who employs him", he said.

Bernard's wife Mihirimali said that her husband was a very disciplined driver and never consumed alcohol and was a very religious man.

She was sad that some villagers after hearing unsubstantiated news broadcasts on FM stations on what happened to her husband started spreading rumours as if he had committed a grave crime, she said.





School Transport: Need of proper vehicles and trained drivers

January 25, 2012, 12:00 pm

The Island editorial in Island on 21 January raised the pertinent and current issue of the rickety vehicles and the killer school van drivers to whom the lives of schoolchildren are being entrusted by their parents who have no alternative.

The popular vehicle of the size of the Toyota HiAce or the Mitsubishi L300 (no malice intended towards these two carmakers or their vehicles) has the capacity to carry only a smaller number of children than a passenger transport bus of standard size. The smaller size of such vehicles, in addition, may even give the driver the erroneous over-confidence that he can creep through a narrow gap when, in fact, he would be inviting disaster.

Most countries that care for their schoolchildren have special vehicles to transport them. The vehicles usually are much bigger, painted bright "School Bus" yellow or white, and have hazard lights that blink when they stop to pick up or drop their young passengers. In addition, there are warning arm signs that open out on both sides of the bus with additional red lights to warn other vehicles. A variety of sizes is available, with the smaller ones having a capacity of a minimum of 10 passengers to the larger body configuration models that are able to transport up to 70 passengers. Countries such as Hong Kong have "nanny vans" that are small, but which are regulated by a government authority. What is most important to note is that all these vehicles are specially designed for school transport, with sturdier frames and abide by the stipulated safety regulations such as providing seat belts and emergency exits.

Sri Lanka should immediately import proper school buses and employ adequately trained and responsible drivers to man them. Such vehicles, in the long run, will also contribute to reducing the traffic congestion as they will be able to transport a higher number of passengers safely when compared to the many small vans crisscrossing the already congested public highways.

Do we want the speed fiends to continue killing or maiming the innocents, or do something concrete that ensures the safety of the schoolchildren? The choice is obvious.





Apparel producer enters leisure with US$ 20mn investment

January 25, 2012, 9:23 pm

By Harischandra Gunaratna

Arun Thapar, a key figure in the apparel industry in the country and his company Arun Holdings (Pvt) Ltd has ventured into the hospitality industry with a US$ 20 million investment in properties in Colombo- 03, Ranna in Tangalle, Vakarai in Batticaloa and Kalpitiya.

Thapar who has also invested in the hospitality industry in the Maldives and Canada told "The Financial Review" that he was waiting for an opportunity to invest in Sri Lanka with the tourism boom here his dream had come true.

He is a director of a number of other companies in Sri Lanka

Thapar, an Indian passport holder is very much a Sri Lankan now and has been involved in business in Sri Lanka for a period spanning more than 30 years.

At the moment he has identified a suitable land in a picturesque location in Vakarai in the east coast and is having the final negations while the Kalpitiya project will be completed in 2014, a company source said.





Sucking Up To Armenians

January 25, 2012, 7:49 pm

By Gwynne Dyer

I go to France quite often, but after this article is published, I may be liable to arrest if I set foot in the country.

The French parliament has just passed a bill, proposed by President Nicolas Sarkozy's party, that will make it a crime to question whether the Armenian massacres in eastern Turkey in 1915 qualified as a genocide. Sarkozy will doubtless sign it into law next month, just in time for the presidential elections.

It won't just be a crime in France to deny that hundreds of thousands of Armenians, perhaps as many as a million, were killed in eastern Anatolia in 1915, and that it was the responsibility of the Turkish state. That is a historical fact, and only fools, knaves and Turkish ultra-nationalists deny it. It will also be a crime, punishable by one year in prison and a fine of up to 45,000 euros ($58,000), even to question the use of the word "genocide."

"Genocide" doesn't just mean killing a lot of people, even a lot of civilians. If it did, then the United States would be guilty of genocide because of Hiroshima. Genocide is a deliberate attempt to wipe out much or all of a specific ethnic, linguistic or religious group.

Words matter. The descendants of the Armenians who were killed in 1915, most of whom now live in Lebanon, France, or the United States, desperately want what happened to their great-grandparents to be defined as a genocide and not just a calamity of war. They have even been accused of "Holocaust envy": the belief that they are being short-changed if the Armenian tragedy is not given the same status as the Nazi genocide of the European Jews.

The state of Israel, interestingly, has never been comfortable with this claim, and avoids the word "genocide" when discussing the massacre of the Armenians in 1915.

Of course, this might just be a Jewish desire to ensure that no other group's tragedy is seen as comparable to that of the European Jews. But there are concrete reasons for the Israeli unease with the simple equation: Jewish holocaust = Armenian genocide.

About half of the Jewish population of Europe in 1939 was dead by 1945; about half of the Armenians living in eastern Turkey in 1914 were dead by 1918. But what distinguishes the Holocaust from most other atrocities is not the number of deaths, or even the proportion of the population that was killed. It is the motivation behind the killings.

The European Jews were killed as an act of deliberate German policy: a peaceful civilian population was rounded up and transported to camps where they were systematically murdered. What happened to the Armenians of Turkey was less systematic, and probably unplanned.

There is no equivalent in Turkish history to the Wannsee conference of January, 1942 at which the Nazis planned the "final solution" to the "Jewish problem." The mass deportation of Armenians in the First World War, during which hundreds of thousands of them died, took place as Russian troops invaded eastern Anatolia and Armenian revolutionary groups staged uprisings in support of them.

The Armenian uprisings of 1915 were tiny and ineffectual, but the Dashnak and Hnchak revolutionaries had indeed been conspiring with both the Russians and the British to support planned invasions of eastern Anatolia. The British attack was switched west to the Dardanelles quite late in the planning process, but the Russian offensive actually happened.

The Turkish government was panicked by the uprisings behind the front and ordered the mass deportation of the civilian Armenian population to Syria. Regular Turkish troops could not be spared from the fighting, so most of the job of "guarding" the columns of Armenian deportees marching through the mountains to Syria was given to Kurdish tribesmen, who proceeded to rob, rape and murder them in huge numbers.

But Armenian civilians living in the cities of western Turkey were not massacred or deported in 1915. Many Armenians in eastern Turkey who were rich enough to buy train tickets to Syria only had to walk where the tracks had not yet been laid. Most of the Armenians who made it to Syria alive were held in camps there, but they were not murdered and burned in ovens. It was horrible, but does it qualify as a case of genocide?

Successive Turkish governments have undermined their own case by insisting that it didn't happen at all. That is dishonest and stupid. There were certainly horrendous massacres, though the exact numbers of dead cannot be known. However, the use of the word "genocide" remains open to question – but it will soon be a criminal offence in France to say so.

Have the French politicians gone mad? Not at all. It's election time, and there are half a million voters of Armenian descent in France.

The Armenian massacres were officially recognised as a genocide in France just before the 2001 elections. A law criminalising any questioning of that definition was passed by the National Assembly just before the 2007 elections, but narrowly rejected by the Senate. This time it made it through the Senate, too. So if you're in France, watch what you say.





Solias Mendis

I refer to the excellent article on Solias Mendis by Upali K Salgado, published in the Sat Mag of 7th January, 2012. This letter contained some additional information on his work.

Walimuni Solias Mendis as said by UKS created a unique tradition in temple wall paintings in Sri Lanka; the best known being at the Raja Maha Viharaya, Kelaniya. [10th January, 1897-1st September, 1975, Personalities of Sri Lanka by Wimalaratne]

Something which seems to be hardly known by those who research Solias Mendis' work is the Collection of his Line Drawings, which are at the National Archives in Colombo. They are large sketches in pencil on tracing paper, and as far as I am aware, had been the basis for his paintings at Kelaniya.

This collection was first given to the National Archives in 1973 by Nissanka Wijeyeratne, who was the Secretary to the Ministry of Cultural Affairs at that time. Subsequently, I believe, Nissanka Wijeyeratne, then the Diyawadane Nilame, must have been instrumental in arranging a Ceremonial Presentation of the Collection, by Solias Mendis himself, to the then Minister of Cultural Affairs, S. S. Kulatilleke. The event took place at the Art Gallery, Colombo, on 29th July, 1975, i.e as I see from Wimalaratne's publication, just two months before his demise.

The Collection is listed under SLNA 25.29, and any bona-fide researcher can see them at the Archives. No fee is charged for that service. I think prior information to the Archives may be useful, as the Archives will need to arrange a long and large table to spread the rolls for examination.





MLH celebrates Australian National Day

January 25, 2012, 9:27 pm

BBQ has long been an Australian tradition. So what better way is there to patriotically celebrate this day than to light up the BBQ? It's a day when family and friends gather for what has become a quintessentially Aussie BBQ. BBQ –ing is ingrained in the Australian culture. Where in the world do they know how to BBQ the best ? Well in Australia.

Having gained his cooking experience from Australia, Chef Asanka had a flair for modern Australian cuisine and is inspired by Matt Moran – a top celebrity Chef from Australia. After being an Executive Chef in a star class property in Melbourne he decided to head to his home country and indeed to MLH

You can get any more Australian than being with friends and family around a "Barbie", so join us on 26th January at Governors Restaurant.





In the wave of renewed local and international investment in Sri Lanka largely driven by the Tourism sector, Auro Holdings (Pvt) Ltd is investing in two properties. The first property, Colombo Courtyard is situated in Colombo 03 and is to open in February 2012, whilst the second property Ranna212 is on the deep southern coast in Ranna, Tangalle and is already welcoming its first guests.

Managing Director of Auro Holdings, Arun Thapar, holds business interests spread across a range of industries from leading apparel firms in Singapore and Sri Lanka to hotels in the Maldives and Canada. He is also the founder of the first free trilingual Montessori school in Lunugamvehera, Hambantota - "Bridge to Peace", that begun operations in the immediate aftermath of the devastating Tsunami. This school is operated in association with LPF Academy, Dehiwela & Ratmalana where Thapar has invested to promote education in all three languages. Thapar takes on the new projects in Sri Lanka with great enthusiasm, "The Tourism industry can finally reap the benefits of the islands natural, historical and cultural beauty. There is so much untapped potential."

The 33 key boutique hotel in Colombo situated at Alfred House Avenue, has an initial investment of USD 5 million whilst the property in Ranna, Tangalle is a 124 key property with an investment in excess of USD 15 million. Thapar believes that this is a crucial time for the hotel industry and he is confident of the return on the significant investment outlay.

Designed by environmental architect Sunela Jayawardene who is renowned for her ability to create hotels that let you be one with nature, Colombo Courtyard is crafted around the concept of a series of open spaces, conscious lighting patterns and the use of recycled elements in its artful décor. With a choice of two unit suites equipped with graceful luxuries and modern facilities including 42 inch LED screens and iMac computers, as well as Deluxe rooms with heightened comfort features, Colombo Courtyard will breath freshness into the city's accommodation options. The hotel is replete with 3 varied dining outlets including "Cloud Café" - a rooftop café with a view of the city skyline by night and "The Loft" - an industrially-styled bar. The hotel also offers a plunge pool, jacuzzi and library.

Ranna212, Tangalle is spread across 11 acres of land with over 150 meters beach frontage in what is arguably Sri Lanka's finest stretch of coast along the south. The extent of land gives liberty to winding walkways amidst private clusters of rooms and public areas. The all day dining restaurant "Senses" and specialty barbeque outlet "Flame" are sure to delight travelers whilst the hotels two bars are designed to let you enjoy the oceans bliss. A Spa with trained therapists and a pool are not only what make this a great resort hotel.





Tea output falls, earnings rise

January 25, 2012, 9:20 pm

By Steve A. Morrell

Buoyancy in the Tea market, after the Middle East upheaval last year, sustained price levels irrespective of crop short fall. The Sri Lanka Tea Board said production fell 9 percent in 2011 compared with the previous year.

Tea brokers said total crop intake in 2011 was 328.3 million, recording a decrease of about 3 million kilos comparing 2010. All elevations recorded decreases but the worst hit was the mid growns. The mid grown shortfall was about 30,000 kilos. negligible though it was, contributed to the overall crop deficit.

Generally, shippers said their profits were 'not too bad', but the formal plantation sector was worst affected while small holders continued to make money.

So too the private tea factory owners. Questioned how this was achieved they said this sector did not have to worry about all sorts of commitments the Estate sector was subjected to. Would there be new thinking this year? 'That you would have to ask the Planters' Association (PA)

Export volumes increased for Bio, Instant, reclaimed, and Orthodox green Teas up 22,5 million kilos, from 18.3 million kilos the previous year.

Western quality influenced most Western marks at last week's tea auction. Brokers reports said cold nights and dry winds enhanced wide hygrometric differences. Ideally good quality weather ensuring bright infusions, and quality liquor. Crops were down, which was to be expected at this time of year.

There was no panic situation in most hill country stations. Some private tea holders we spoke to were also in good humour. Mostly in the Maskeliya sub – district. Prices were good they said. Some said they fell in line with the wage structure for Plantation workers, but were not weighted down by most plantation company commitments. Profits were not too bad and tea continues to be good business, they said.

The threat that war would break out in the Middle East because of the US blockade, ended with Iran falling in line.

Members of the Private Tea Factory Owners Association too echoed these views,. They said their origins were from Tea Small Holders, who fell in line supplying good leaf. Two such owners we spoke to said they were not prepared to compromise on leaf standards because prices they paid for green leaf was around Rs.70 per kilo. 'At that price they were making money, because profit margins were substantial. Small holders maintained good leaf standards, else I turned their leaf away," said a private tea factory owner in the Hatton District.

Meanwhile the Company that stood firm on productivity, and plucking norms, said workers had now adhered to what was required and had agreed to increase their norms. Work has now returned to normal, but the company is reportedly not taking any chances.

Kenya and the extreme frost situation there would influence Ceylon Tea. These comments gleaned from Broker's reports. It would take at least three months for growth to be normalized after frost affectation. Tea areas in Nuwara Eliya too would take that long to recover. But thankfully, despite of extreme cold weather in those climes, just a small area had frost bite.

Westerns sold at price variances of about Rs. 20 above last weeks gains. Nuwara Eliya averages were Rs.10 above last prices.

Low growns sold well. Here the Middle East origins were exceptionally active.

At this week's auction about 6.8 million would be on offer. Brokers said this sale too would be good. Prices would move up.





IMF says global recovery expected to stall, risks to intensify

January 25, 2012, 9:21 pm

With intensifying strains in the euro area weighing on the global outlook, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) has sharply cut its forecast for world growth this year, saying prospects have dimmed and risks to financial stability have increased.

In an update to its World Economic Outlook(WEO), the IMF said that the euro area would fall into a mild recession in 2012 after the euro area crisis entered a "perilous new phase" toward the end of last year, affecting other parts of the world including the United States, emerging markets, and developing countries.

Overall, activity in the advanced economies is now projected to expand by just 1.2 percent in 2012—a downward revision of 3⁄4 percentage points relative to the forecast last September—picking up to a still tepid 1.9 percent the next year. The global growth outlook for this year is 3.3 percent.

"Given the depth of the 2009 recession, these growth rates are too sluggish to make a major dent in very high unemployment," the IMF said.

With the revised forecast, the IMF also released updates on January 24 to itsGlobal Financial Stability Report (GFSR), which tracks issues in banking and capital markets, and its Fiscal Monitor, which tracks government debt and budgets.

Europe is epicenter

"The outlook for growth is mediocre, and it could be worse," said Olivier Blanchard, the IMF's Economic Counsellor.

At a press conference in Washington D.C., Blanchard said that "the world recovery, which was weak in the first place, is in danger of stalling.The epicenter of the danger is Europe, but the rest of the world is increasingly affected."

He told reporters there was an even greater danger if the European crisis intensified. "In this case, the world could be plunged into another recession," he said.

But Blanchard said that with the right set of measures, "the worst can definitely be avoided, and the recovery can be put back on track. These measures can be taken, need to be taken, and need to be taken urgently."

In a speech in Berlin on January 23, IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde laid out the main elements of a policy path forward. Europe, which is at the center of global concerns, needs stronger growth, larger firewalls, and deeper integration, she said, but added that other economies also have an important role to play to restore balanced global growth. As for the multilateral component, Lagarde said that the IMF was ready to help and was seeking to increase its lending resources by up to $500 billion.

Asia still strong

The report said in 2012–13, growth in emerging and developing economies is expected to average 53⁄4 percent—a significant slowdown from the 63⁄4 percent growth registered in 2010–11, and about 1⁄2 percentage point lower than projected in the September 2011 WEO. This reflects the deterioration in the external environment, as well as the slowdown in domestic demand in key emerging economies.

Despite a substantial downward revision of 3⁄4 percentage point, developing Asia is still projected to grow most rapidly at 71⁄2 percent on average in 2012–13.

Economic activity in the Middle East and North Africa is expected to accelerate in 2012-13, driven mainly by the recovery in Libya and the continued strong performance of other oil exporters. Most oil-importing countries in the region face muted growth prospects due to longer than expected political transition and an adverse external environment.

The impact of the global slowdown on sub-Saharan Africa has to date been limited to a few countries, most notably South Africa, and the region's output is expected to expand by about 51⁄2 percent in 2012.

The adverse spillover effects are expected to be the largest for central and eastern Europe, given the region's strong trade and financial linkages with the euro area economies.

The impact on other regions is expected to be relatively mild, as macroeconomic policy easing is expected to largely offset the effects of slowing demand from advanced economies and rising global risk aversion. For many emerging and developing economies, the strength of the forecasts also reflects relatively high commodity prices.

Europe key to restoring confidence

Blanchard said that growth in the euro area in 2012 was now forecast at -0.5%, a decrease of 1.6% relative to the IMF's September 2011 projection. "In particular, we predict negative growth of 2.2% in Italy, 1.7% in Spain," he said.

The IMF said the most immediate policy challenge is to restore confidence and put an end to the crisis in the euro area by supporting growth, while sustaining fiscal adjustment, containing deleveraging, and providing more liquidity and monetary accommodation.

In other major advanced economies, the key policy requirements are to address medium-term fiscal imbalances and to repair and reform financial systems, while sustaining the recovery. In emerging and developing economies, near-term policy should focus on responding to moderating domestic growth and to slowing external demand from advanced economies.

Financial sector risks rise

In its GFSR update, the IMF said global financial stability has moved deeply into the danger zone as sovereign bond spreads in the euro area have widened, and the European Central Bank has been forced to play an increasingly vital role in sustaining the euro area financial system. Despite the efforts of European policymakers to contain the euro area debt crisis and related banking problems, a comprehensive and decisive policy response is still needed, the IMF said.

"European policymakers need to promptly put in place a comprehensive package that restores confidence, and need to implement the policy measures agreed at the October and December euro zone summits," said José Viñals, the IMF's Financial Counsellor and head of the Monetary and Capital Markets Department.

The IMF said officials should create a large firewall designed to protect sovereigns that are solvent but facing financing strains. Although institutions intended for this purpose exist, they currently do not have the size and flexibility required to be fully credible.

Banks need to increase their capital to restore financial markets' confidence in their ability to weather the downturn. Wherever possible, this should be done by raising capital from private sources, but public funding should be available for this purpose when needed. There should also be a pan-euro-area facility with the capacity to take direct stakes in banks.

Officials need to monitor the adjustment of bank balance sheets in the face of the crisis, and act to prevent "bad" deleveraging—asset sales that have the effect of reducing the supply of credit to the economy. Officials should aim to limit deleveraging of their banks not only in home markets but also abroad.

The IMF added that despite the resilience demonstrated in recent years by emerging markets, they face risks from deleveraging by euro area banks, particularly in emerging Europe countries.

Progress on fiscal side

Fiscal deficits in many advanced economies fell significantly during 2011, and most plan substantial adjustment this year. Continued adjustment is necessary for medium-term debt sustainability, and should ideally occur at a pace that supports adequate growth in output and employment, according to the latestFiscal Monitor.

"The pace of fiscal consolidation in advanced economies in 2012 is already high," said Carlo Cottarelli, head of the IMF's Fiscal Affairs Department, which produced the report. "Too rapid consolidation, if economic growth slows, could exacerbate risks."

Most countries should allow automatic stabilizers, such as unemployment insurance payments that rise as jobs are eliminated, to work if growth slows. When economic conditions deteriorate they can cushion the impact on demand.

Countries that have the fiscal space, including some in Europe, could consider slowing the pace of consolidation this year. Some countries, notably the United States and Japan, need to clarify their plans to reduce debts and deficits in the years ahead.

Some emerging economies with low debt and deficits and declining inflationary pressure have room to make policy more supportive of economic activity. Others have little space for more than the operation of automatic stabilizers if growth slows.

Emerging economies highly dependent on commodity revenues and external capital inflows also need to consider the risk of a large and protracted decline in these flows.





Pro-govt. group forces Black January protesters out

January 25, 2012, 9:40 pm

by Zacki Jabbar

While Sri Lanka slipped to 163rd position on the World Press Freedom Index, a pro-government mob yesterday prevented seven media organisations from staging a protest, titled Black January against media suppression, at the Fort Railway Station premises despite a Court order granting them permission.

When the media personnel arrived at the Fort Railway Station yesterday afternoon, the pro-government demonstrators had already occupied their space and demanding that that they go to Lipton Circus in Colombo 7.

The journalists, unable to match their rivals' physical might, decided to shift their protest to Lipton Circus, where they called for an end to state sponsored threats and attacks on the media.

Earlier in the day, the Colombo Magistrate's Court, acting on a motion filed by the police, directed the media personnel to hold their demonstration within the Fort Railway Station premises and not move out onto the main road.

However, the pro-government activists were seen walking on the road opposite the Fort Railway Station.The World Press Freedom Index, which has been complied by Reporters Without Borders, has listed Sri Lanka five places down from its 158th position in 2010.

WPFI said the stranglehold of the Rajapaksa clan forced the last few opposition journalists to flee the country. Any that stayed behind were regularly subjected to harassment and threats. Attacks were less common but impunity and official censorship of independent news sites put an end to pluralism and contributed more than ever to self-censorship by almost all media outlets. "Online journalists and media continue to be targeted for violence. Impunity persists, and the regime does not hesitate to use censorship when its efforts to induce self-censorship no longer suffice," WPFI said.





World's top golfers lock horns in Abu Dhabi

January 25, 2012, 8:36 pm

ABU DHABI, United Arab Emirates (AP) — The European Tour outshines the more lucrative U.S. PGA Tour this week when the world's top four golfers plus a resurgent Tiger Woods open their seasons at the Abu Dhabi Championship on Thursday.

With 12 major winners and nearly 100 European Tour winners, it is a field more akin to a major, and the players say the quality of competition will allow them to quickly gauge their game after the brief offseason.

"It's definitely not a quiet way to start the year," said U.S. Open champion Rory McIlroy, who has finished second, third and fifth in the past three years in Abu Dhabi.

"It's great, you get straight at it right away," he added. "You're playing with two of the best golfers in the world in the first two days, and you're up against one of the strongest fields probably that will be assembled this year. You want to try and get off to a good start."

Westwood said the field was a boost to the European Tour, which was often shaded by the U.S. PGA Tour.

"I think it's great for the European Tour that we can attract fields like this early in the year," Westwood said. "I think in all fairness between probably April and after the PGA (Championship), most of the golfing world is focused on the U.S. But I think, now, the rest of the world is where golf is big time really."

What makes Abu Dhabi so eagerly anticipated is that all of the top golfers are fit and coming off seasons where they played some of their best golf.

Woods has said he's making his healthiest start to a season in at least eight years and brimming with confidence after ending a two-year title drought with his dramatic victory at the Chevron World Challenge last month.





Colombo hotels told to hold on to their stars

*Downgrading five stars to attract more guests would hurt SMEs

January 25, 2012, 9:23 pm

By Harischandra Gunaratna

Colombo City Hoteliers Association President M. Shanthikumar yesterday said that no five star hotel should attempt to have the property down graded to four stars as it would adversely affect the four stars.

When a hotel with five star facilities is marketed at four star rates it would be a distinct disadvantage to the existing four stars and they also will be forced to seek permission to be downgraded to the next category from the relevant authorities, he said. (Please see The Island Financial Review of Wednesday 25, January: Galadari sinks, mulls shedding status to stay afloat – Treasury holding it down with 13% EPF stake).

Shanthikumar was of the opinion that it will have a detrimental effect on all other hotels and hence it should not be done."If it is done, the move will badly affect Small and Medium Enterprises in Tourism and kill that segment of the industry ," he warned.

The veteran hotelier asked what would happen to the four stars, they would then have to down grade to three stars and the three stars to two stars and where would the lowest category be placed.

"If a hotel is not doing well with its occupancy it will lead to loss o revenue and the hotel will have to launch an effective and aggressive marketing campaign," he said.

The current minimum room rates for City Hotels are as follows.

If this trend would be followed it would become a precedent and eventually the country would not be able to achieve the expected 2.5 million tourist arrivals target in 2016, he said.

Shathikuamar said that the City Hotels are enjoying an average of 75 percent occupancy this month and it would be 70 percent in February. The highest number of visitors are from India, followed by UK and Germany.

When asked whether the government has no plans to launch an aggressive marketing campaign at this hour, Shanthikumar answered in the affirmative and said that Treasury Secretary P.B.Jayasundara has planned to promote the country with the help of stakeholders such as Sri Lanka Tourism,Sri Lankan Airlines, SriLanka Tea Board, Sri Lanka Export Promotion Board, Sri Lanka Gem and Jewellery Authority etc. and said it is a good move.

Leading international chains Shangrilla and Sheraton will construct two five stars at the Galle Face which together would have a total of around 800 rooms he said.

"Shangrilla will be a five star and not a seven star as speculated by some," he stressed.

In addition a four star by the well known hotel chain Movenpick and a three star by John Keells-Sanken Lanka, both in Colombo -03 is being constructed.

The building constructed by Ceylinco at the Cornels Super market for the proposed five star Hyatt Regency has been taken over by the Urban Development Authority and would decide on the fate of it, he said.

"There would be more two and three star hotels coming into operation in the coming months in the metropolis and the latest trend is that some entrepreneurs are investing on apartments for tourists where the latter could hire them for week or a longer period," Shanthikumar, pointed out

It is heartening to note that some five stars are upgrading the properties investing large sums of money as they are confident of the future.

This augurs well for Sri Lanka's tourism industry said the veteran hotelier.





Sajith, Karu lash out at UPFA

January 25, 2012, 9:37 pm

By Shamindra Fredinando

In spite of giving successful political leadership to Sri Lanka's war effort, leading to the eradication of the LTTE in May 2009, the SLFP-led UPFA's performance in every other field had been pathetic, UNP Reformists alleged yesterday.

Addressing the media at the Bodhi Ranasinghe Foundation in Narahenpita, UNP Deputy Leader Sajith Premadasa and Parliamentarian Karu Jayasuriya accused the government of failing to address grievances of those struggling to make ends meet.

While playing down simmering differences with UNP leader Ranil Wickremesinghe, Premadasa and Jayasuriya vowed to press ahead with their campaign to unite the party.

Last week, the Reformists launched 'Mahinda-Ranil secret partnership' much to the anger of Wickremesinghe. The book alleged that Wickremesinghe and Rajapaksa were cooperating with each other for their survival.Former Deputy Leader Jayasuriya emphasized that he along with parliamentarians Premadasa and Dayasiri Jayasekera had contested the Dec. 19 election for top positions in the party due to numerous requests from the party. "The UNP didn't belong to one person or a group of persons. Subsequent to the Dec. 19 elections, some were targeted by the incumbent leadership causing further rifts. Such actions are detrimental to the party and undermine our efforts to re-build the party. As elections for top party posts are normal in a democratic society, members expected the party to continue normally following the Dec. 19 polls. Unfortunately it wasn't the case," Jayasuriya complained.

He said that the Reformists weren't trying to divide or embarrass the party. A smiling Jayasuriya said: "We aren't terrorists. We are not plotting to sabotage Opposition efforts," Jayasuriya assured. "Ours is, nothing but an effort to prepare the party to meet future challenges," the parliamentarian said.

"Wherever we went, the public accused the Opposition of not being active and failure on its part to take on the government," he said.

Commenting on accountability issues, the one-time UPFA Minister alleged that in spite of the conclusion of the conflict in May 2009, disappearances were continuing. The Gampaha District MP estimated the number of persons reported missing in 2010 and 2011 at 850, while alleging the government was responsible for the deterioration of the law and order situation. Jayasuriya accused the government of operating death squads using white vans, turning a blind eye to underworld operations and the nexus between ruling party politicians and the underworld. Democratic freedoms had been at stake, the MP alleged, recalling how UPFA goons targeted a group of UNPers, including MPs protesting against the government on Feb. 4 last year. The names of those involved in the attack transpired even in parliament, he said.

Acknowledging the leadership given by President Rajapaksa and Defence Secretary Gotabhaya Rajapaksa to the war effort, MP Jayasuriya regretted that former Army Chief Lt. Gen. Sarath Fonseka, who spearheaded the ground offensive, was languishing in jail. On Feb. 8, the war veteran would be completing two years in jail, the MP said, adding that the international community had declared Fonseka as a political prisoner. In spite of being in the Opposition, Jayasuriya said that he wouldn't hesitate to praise the leadership given by the Rajapaksas, though he couldn't agree with the way General Fonseka was being harassed and humiliated for political reasons.

MP Jayasuriya reiterated the long standing Opposition demand to unconditionally release the war hero and allow him to live freely. He strongly condemned what he called ongoing efforts on the part of the government to erase General Fonseka's role in Sri Lanka's triumph over terrorism.

The alleged involvement of UPFA politicians with the underworld, particularly land grab and extortion rackets, had been exposed, the UNPer said. While the national economy was in an extremely bad shape due to waste, corruption and irregularities on the part of the government, the UPFA leaders were squandering public funds. They would spend Rs. 20 mn for a project, which could be completed with just one million rupee, he said.

Jayasuriya alleged that recent night races in Colombo exposed the callous attitude of those in power. Nothing could be as shameless as having night faces, in the wake of the collapse of farmers' pension scheme. Referring to the Christmas night killing of a tourist at a Tangalle resort by an SLFP Chairman of Tangalle Pradeshiya Sabha, the MP said that rapid deterioration of law enforcement operations now posed a serious threat to the country.

The UNP also warned of the danger posed to the private banking sector by constant government interference, while expressing concern over what was going on at the Colombo Stock Exchange. The government shouldn't ignore those critical of how the national economy was performing under the Rajapaksas, the MP said.

Parliamentarian Premadasa said that there couldn't be a better example than the GCE (AL) examination results mess-up to expose the government. Despite having 13 ministers at different levels, the government couldn't rectify the crisis to the satisfaction of those who sat for the examination, their parents and teacher unions. The entire education sector was in crisis, with the Universities on fire, he said.





HSBC launches new credit card

January 25, 2012, 9:06 pm

HSBC yesterday announced the launch of HSBC Visa Signature, an exclusive card that denotes a class above with superior travel and many lifestyle benefits. The newly introduced credit card purely focuses on providing the most discerning travel needs to its elite circle of cardholders with enticing and exclusive travel, dining and lodging privileges, offered both locally and globally.

Nick Nicolaou, Chief Executive Officer for HSBC Sri Lanka and Maldives said, "As a leading international Bank, we constantly strive at exceeding our customers' expectations. As such, it is our endeavor to introduce new and innovative products and services from time to time, for the benefit of our customers. Therefore, we believe that HSBC Visa Signature will delight our customers, by providing tangible benefits to those who desire for that something extra in life."

The launch signifies the introduction of many unique privileges for those who believe that the joy of travel is heightened when shared with someone special. HSBC will offer a free companion ticket to card holders when they swipe the card for a predetermined amount throughout the year.

The Bank also partnered with seven top airlines, namely Cathay Pacific Airways, Jet Airways, Kingfisher Airlines, Malaysia Airline, Qatar Airways, Singapore Airlines and SriLankan to offer sensational savings on business class airfares. So cardholders can enjoy a luxury travel experience on board the world's best airlines, whether on a planned or spontaneous holiday retreat or business trip.

Among the special travel privileges, HSBC Visa Signature cardholders can freely access over 600 VIP airport lounges across the world and enjoy a warm welcome at some of the world's most prestigious hotels and restaurants with sensational dining deals that further compliment their stay. They can also enjoy an occasional game of golf whenever the greens beckon with discounted fees at over 300 golf clubs worldwide.

With the HSBC Visa Signature Luxury Hotel Collection, cardholders will have access to the best rates at over 800 luxury hotels around the world, from the finest boutiques to private retreats, providing them with an unparalleled hospitality experience. Cardholders are eligible to unique privileges, including automatic room upgrades upon arrival, a late check-out, VIP Guest status and exclusive benefits and savings from restaurants around the world, allowing them to indulge in delectable cuisine anywhere they wish.

HSBC has deployed a dedicated team of customer service agents that are operative 24/7, 365 days a year to provide customers with adequate emergency travel assistance with local/overseas Visa Signature concierge services and other required services.





President marks milestone

January 25, 2012, 9:37 pm

President Mahinda Rajapaksa celebrates the second anniversary of his second presidential term today (Jan. 26). He polled 6,015,934 votes to defeat combined Opposition candidate, General Sarath Fonseka at his re-election on January 26, (2010).

UPFA General Secretary Susil Premjayantha told The Island that the defeat thwarted an attempt by local and foreign elements to destabilize the country. Minister Premjayantha said that the victory paved the way for a massive UPFA triumph at the parliamentary polls in April 2010 and set the stage for stepped-up economic development drive.





Action against media not discussed at any level – Sajith

January 25, 2012, 9:39 pm

UNP Deputy Leader Sajith Premadasa yesterday said that the party never discussed, at any level, action against Sirasa Media Network or any other media outfit.The parliamentarian stressed that the UNP wouldn't interfere with the media, while reiterating their commitment to a vibrant media. The MP was responding to The Island query whether the Reformists group agreed with UNP leader Ranil Wickremesinghe's recent call for the setting up of a Parliamentary Select Committee (PSC) to inquire into the alleged involvement of Sirasa and an NGO funded by Germany to destabilize the UNP.

Asked whether the Reformists see a similarity in the government and the UNP leader alleging a section of the NGOs and the media of interfering in the backdrop of allegations of a secret partnership between President Mahinda Rajapaksa and Wickremesinghe, Premadasa said they wouldn't obstruct the media. (SF)





A new dimension to dining at Cinnamon Lodge Habarana

January 25, 2012, 9:26 pm

True to the Cinnamon Hotels and Resorts promise of 'How may we Indulge you?', Cinnamon Lodge, Habarana has introduced unique and innovative experiences for guests to truly indulge as they reside amongst twenty seven acres of fertile forested land, in a spacious Five Star getaway in the heart of the Cultural Triangle. Being a truly eco-friendly hotel, the farm at Cinnamon Lodge cultivates vegetables, rice and its very own honey production all of which is carried out under organic principles and is in line to receive the European Union accredited certification.

Accordingly guests can now pick their own fresh vegetables and herbs from the organic farm with the guidance of chefs at the hotel, and participate as they get involved in preparing culinary creations and then indulge in them, right in the kitchen itself. This is yet another unique dining experience offered to guests at Cinnamon Lodge. "This new and creative concept to dining is highly accepted by many of the visitors to the hotel lately. It not only has increased guest's involvement but it also has increased awareness on organic farming and its principles among many of our visitors" says Regional Chef, Jeevendra Wijethunge of Cinnamon Lodge.





SB hums different tune after his claims are countered

Former Exam Chief strikes discordant note

January 25, 2012, 9:38 pm

by Dasun Edirisinghe

Higher Education Minister S. B. Dissanayake yesterday claimed that he had wanted Prof. R. O. Thattil on the panel of experts which introduced a new Z score formula combining the results of old and new syllabuses at the last GCE (A/L), but the Examination Department and the University Grants Commission opposed his appointment to the panel.

Addressing a news conference at the UGC Auditorium, Minister Dissanayake said that he couldn't override their decisions.

Former Secretary to the Ministry of Education and Higher Education Prof. R. P. Gunawardena on Tuesday criticized the government for not including Prof. Thattil in the panel that worked out the new Z score formula.

Answering a question raised by a journalist, Minister Dissanayake agreed that the then Education and Higher Education Minister selected Prof. Thattil's proposal to implement the 'Z' – Score scheme during 2000/ 2001 from 11 other proposals.

"When I suggested Prof. Thattil's name to the panel, the Examinations Department opposed it on grounds that Prof. Thattil had submitted a letter to Court in favour of a student who had filed a case against the Examinations Department and UGC," he said.

Dissanayake said that the UGC too opposed Prof Thattil's appointment as there were several audit queries against the Professor when he was working as the Director of the Peradeniya University's Post Graduate Institute.

The Minister also said that the 'Z' – score system was the best measurement to select students to the universities.

When contacted by The Island, former Commissioner General of Examinations Anura Edirisinghe denied Minister Dissanayake's claim that the Examinations Department objected to the appointment of Prof. Thattil.

"We neither opposed nor agreed with Prof. Thattil's appointment to the panel," he said adding that the Examinations Department was not aware of the experts in the panel until it was officially announced.

UGC Chairman Prof. Gamini Samaranayake said Prof. Thattil was not the only statistician in the country.

"There is no doubt he's an expert, but we appointed a five-member experts committee," he said adding that they had focused on experts to access easily as they were residing in Colombo suburbs.

He said that they also wanted to include the Vice Chancellor of the Peradeniya University in the panel, but it was cancelled due to the fact he was in Kandy.

Prof. Samaranayake said that they had invited another expert who worked with Prof. Thattil but he declined to join the panel.





Japan aid to benefit over 370 families in Kilinochchi District

January 25, 2012, 9:52 pm

By Steve A. Morrell

Japanese ambassador Nobuhito Hobo speaking at the signing of a grant aid to the conflict affected villages in Kandavalai Divisional Secretary's Division in Killinochchi on Monday said that Japan had provided Sri Lanka assistance to the tune of Rs 1525 billion since 1965.

The latest grant aid amounting to US $ 223,075 (approximately Rs25 million) provided under its Grassroots Human Security Projects Scheme (GGP) was expected to improve the living environment and livelihood of recent returnees in a conflict affected village in terms of ensuring human security. Since 1989 Japan has funded 226 such projects here at a total cost of about 29.5 million Dollars.

At a brief media briefing that followed the signing, Ambassador Hobo said this year was the 60th Anniversary of Japan-Sri Lanka Diplomatic relations. During the last six decades both countries maintained strong mutual partnerships. Japan had been a strong partner in Sri Lanka's socio and economic development. This mutual support would continue and be further strengthened.

Grant aid was signed between ambassador Hobo, and Chairman, Sewalanka, Dr. Harsha Kumara Navarathna. It will benefit more than 370 families directly

Dr. Harsha Navarathna said "the project will renovate small scale economic related infrastructure, which would include the construction of the fishery and community hall with water and sanitation facilities to benefit the fishing community and renovation of three kilometers of an inner road leading to the seas well as renovation of two causeways and a culvert. In order to enable farmers to engage in paddy cultivation during the yala season, the project will also lend support to construct a water diversion bund"





Health Ministry gives into nurses' union demand

January 25, 2012, 9:48 pm

By Dilanthi Jayamanne

The Health Ministry has given into the demands of the Government Nursing Officers' Association (GNOA) and made it compulsory for all nurses who have completed five years of service in the south of the country to serve in Northern hospitals.

The spokesman for the Health Ministry said yesterday that the Health Ministry had earlier intended to fill the dearth of nurses in the North by training North and East students who passed their G.C.E. Advanced Level in arts and commerce, instead of science.

He said Students of the province, owing to the lack of resources found it difficult to take up science subjects at the G.C.E. Advanced Level, therefore the earlier decision was taken to fill the dearth of nurses in Northern hospitals by training arts and commerce students as nurses, but the GNOA insistence that only students who had passed the A/L in science subjects be taken for nursing had left the Ministry with no option but to send all nurses completing five years in other parts of the country outside the Northern Province to the North, the spokesman added.

Responding to the Health Ministry's decision GNOA President Saman Ratnapriya said they would not allow the Ministry to adopt such a stance. An annoyed Ratnapriya accused the Health Ministry of trying to cover their shortcomings by implementing impulsive decisions taken by Health Ministry officials.

Initially the Ministry should have appointed a Transfer Board to transfer and appoint nurses on merit. As it is transfers are carried out haphazardly, he said.

The nursing unions advised the Health Ministry to deploy three hundred newly qualified nurses to the North when it gave appointments to over thousand new nurses at the end of last year. Instead the Ministry only took steps to send 80 of them to the North.

They failed to recruit new nursing trainees in 2009 and 2010. The nursing curricular takes three years to complete. One of the two batches would have passed out this year if recruitment had been done as advised. As it is there won't be a batch qualifying this year, the unions charged.

The nursing unions while admitting that they were aware of the dire need for nurses in the North and East, however said that deploying nurses who have completed five years of service in the south - which includes completing service in difficult areas was unacceptable. Ratnapriya urged the Ministry to institute a Transfer Board to give annual transfers and to give new appointments according to merit order.

Earlier the GNOA warned they would carry out country wide protests if the government did not reverse its decision to recruit nursing trainees for North- East hospitals from G.C.E. Arts and commerce streams. They said that it would only serve to bring down the standard of the nursing profession.

Sections 7,2 and 4 of the nursing minute emphasises that only students who have scored in Bio science at the G.C.E. Advanced Level could be recruited for nurses training. "It was the policy of the Health Ministry before 2010 and we cannot approve the lowering of standards", Ratnapriya said.





Sharapova,Kvitova to meet in semi-final

MELBOURNE, Australia (AP) — Former and reigning Wimbledon winners Maria Sharapova and Petra Kvitova will meet in the Australian Open semifinals after both won in straight sets on Wednesday.

After Kvitova beat unseeded Italian Sara Errani 6-4, 6-4, Sharapova set up a repeat of last year's final at the All England Club with a 6-2, 6-3 defeat of fellow Russian Ekaterina Makarova.

Kvitova beat Sharapova 6-3, 6-4 in their last Grand Slam meeting to claim her first major title.

"Obviously it was a tough one at Wimbledon," Sharapova said. "She's full of confidence and playing the best tennis right now. I look forward to it."

Three of the men's top four are already into the semifinals after Andy Murray ended the run of Japan's Kei Nishikori with a 6-3, 6-3, 6-1 win.

The No. 4-ranked Murray will face the winner of a later match between defending champion Novak Djokovic and David Ferrer of Spain.

Nishikori, the first Japanese man to reach the quarterfinals here in the Open era, showed flashes of the form that earned him a surprise win over former finalist Jo-Wilfried Tsonga in the previous round.

During the first set, Nishikori played a lob shot through his legs on his way to winning the point — but by that time he was already a break down.

Murray, who hasn't dropped a set since the first round, broke seven times in all, although he plans to work on his serve after only landing 44 percent of his first serves.

"The returning was good, so that was positive," said Murray, the beaten finalist the last two years here. "Could hav eserved better, that's for sure."

In winning their quarterfinals, Sharapova and Kvitova also kept alive their chances of claiming the top ranking, which Caroline Wozniacki will vacate on Monday after her quarterfinal loss to Kim Clijsters.

Sharapova must repeat her 2008 Australian title win. Kvitova only has to match or better the run of Victoria Azarenka, the only other player still in the running this week for the No. 1 spot.

Sharapova has dropped one set and lost 21 games en route to her first Australian Open semifinal since she won the 2008 final — the last of her three major titles.

"It's been a long road back to this stage," said Sharapova, who spent 10 months off court with a shoulder injury that required surgery.

Kvitova was far from her best against an opponent making her debut in a Grand Slam quarterfinal, and with a 0-24 record against top 10 players. The second-seeded Czech made 44 errors and had to come back from a break down in the second set.

"I was a little nervous because I knew that everybody expect it will be easy match," Kvitova said. "Probably I had in my head that it's a good draw."





Sri Lanka leaves for Fed Cup in China tomorrow

January 25, 2012, 8:38 pm

By Revata S. Silva

A three-member team from Sri Lanka will leave for China tomorrow, Friday, Jan. 27, for the biggest annual women's international team tennis event, the Federation Cup, to be held in Shenzhen Luohu Tennis Centre in Shenzhen, China from Jan. 30 to Feb. 4.

This will be an Asia-Oceania Zone Group-II Fed Cup event where Sri Lanka will participate for the first time since 2008.

There will be an initial round-robin for the 10 participating nations, which will be placed in two Pools, and then the winners of both Pools will engage in another play off to decide which nation is promoted to the Asia-Oceania Zone Group-I in 2013.

Fed Cup Tournament Structure:

Sri Lanka has been playing in both Group-I and II of the Asia-Oceania Zone (the Zone has only two Groups) but has never qualified to play in the World Group-II Play Offs, the next upper level of the Fed Cup tournament structure.

International Rankings:

Sri Lanka is currently ranked at 91st in the International Tennis Federation (ITF) country rankings, along with both Iran and Barbados (=91). There are a total number of 95 ranked countries in all with No.1 being Italy and the last (95th) being Syria.

History:

Fed Cup was inaugurated in 1963 to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the ITF. It is now the world's largest annual international team competition in women's sport, with 90 nations entering in 2011.

Sri Lanka's Participation in Fed Cup:

Sri Lanka last contested the Fed Cup in 2008 and played only 10 times since her inaugural appearance in 1990. Before 2008, Sri Lanka played in years 1990, '91, '92, '93, '94, '95, '97, 2000 and 2001. She has so far played in 35 ties winning only 11 while losing 24. When past records are concerned, Lihini Weerasuriya and Vajira Premaratne are the leading Fed Cup campaigners for Sri Lanka.





Trade deficit more than doubles, reserves fall 30.6% from peak

January 25, 2012, 9:16 pm

The trade deficit for the period January to November 2011 more than doubled, expanding 111.3 percent to US$ 8.8 billion from US$ 4.18 billion a year earlier, as export growth was outpaced by the growth of imports. Official reserves which stood at US$ 6.2 billion as at end November 2011, fell 30.6 percent, down from US$ 8.1 billion as at end July 2011, data released by the Central Bank yesterday (Jan. 25) showed.

"The trade deficit for the first eleven months of 2011 stood at US$ 8,835 million, a significant portion of which was on account of imports of infrastructure related to projects of the government that have been funded mainly by foreign loans. In that context, the total inflows to the government, including the proceeds of the International Sovereign Bond issue, amounted to US dollars 4,027 million, during the first eleven months of 2011," the Central Bank said releasing the External Sector Performance report for November 2011.

"During 2011, earnings from tourism grew at a healthy rate of 44.2 per cent to US$ 830 million in 2011 compared to 2010. The tourist arrivals in 2011 increased by 30.8 per cent to 855,975 compared to that of 2010. The cumulative inflows on account of workers' remittances grew at 23.8 per cent to US$ 4,639 million for the first eleven months of 2011. The expansion in exports of services and increased workers' remittances helped contain the impact of the trade deficit, thereby sharply reducing the deficit of the current account to approximately US$ 3,999 million for the first eleven months of 2011. Inflows on account of short-term foreign financing obtained by commercial banks and funds to be secured from abroad as Tier II capital of banks are expected to further strengthen inflows to the country, as noted by the fact that banks have already contracted US$ 490 million as short-term facilities extending up to one year. Meanwhile, several banks have also already negotiated Tier II capital which could potentially reach about US$ 1 billion this year.

"By end November 2011, gross official reserves, excluding Asian Clearing Union (ACU) balances, amounted to US$ 6,201 million. By end November 2011, total external reserves, which includes gross official reserves and foreign assets of commercial banks amounted to US$ 7,541 million. In terms of months of imports, gross official reserves and total external reserves by end November 2011 were equivalent to 3.8 months and 4.6 months, respectively," the Central Bank said.

"Expenditure on imports in November 2011 was mainly driven by increases in imports of intermediate and investment goods. The intermediate goods imports increased year-on-year by 81.1 per cent, led by petroleum, textiles and clothing and fertiliser imports. The import expenditure on petroleum increased mainly due to higher average import price of crude oil of US$ 113 per barrel in November 2011 compared to US$ 84.85 per barrel for the corresponding month of 2010. Fertiliser imports grew in terms of both prices and volumes, by 326 per cent and 99.9 per cent, year-on-year, respectively, and the sharp increase of volume were mainly due to expansion of fertiliser subsidy to cover all crops. Expenditure on imports of investment goods increased substantially by 91.9 per cent while the non-food consumable imports increased by 48.2 per cent, year-on-year, in November 2011.

"In cumulative terms, for the first eleven months of 2011, earnings from exports increased by 22.2 per cent to US$ 9,581 million while the expenditure on imports, driven by substantial increase in investment goods and the sharp increase in price and volume of petroleum imports, increased by 53.2 per cent to US$ 18,417 million, compared with the corresponding period of 2010. In addition, gold and motor vehicle imports contributed to the overall increase in import expenditure. The gold imports increased more than six fold to US$ 553 million while the expenditure on imports of motor vehicle almost doubled to US $ 913 million during the first eleven months of 2011, compared with the same period of 2010," the Central Bank said.





SriLankan's fusion in the sky comes down to Colombo

January 25, 2012, 9:24 pm

The national carrier's international on board cuisine, relished by passengers at 30,000ft, is now served in the heart of its bustling capital, Colombo.

"Semondu" – SriLankan Catering's first restaurant in town, which opened last month, is a gastronomic journey, set amidst the architectural splendour, of a bygone era. The former Dutch hospital, now restored to its past glory, in a charming restaurant cum shopping precinct, centrally located in Fort, has lent its wide open verandas and sprawling courtyards to some of the best cuisine in town, including the kitchens of SriLankan Airlines.

"Semondu's team of Chefs dish out an array of fusion cuisine, blending flavours, mixing and matching Asian and European cuisine, with an oriental touch, served by a highly skilled and professional service staff in the restaurant, which opens for lunch from 12:00 pm to 02.30 pm and dinner from 07.00 pm to 11.00 pm.

During the Dutch rule of Ceylon, from 1658 A.D the Hospital, was used by the Dutch East India Company as a convenient location for patients from ships coming into the Colombo port.

Centuries older than the Dutch building, is the name of the restaurant "Semondu" which is derived from the word "Simoundou", an ancient name for Sri Lanka given by Ptolomy, the famous Roman mathematician, astronomer, geographer, astrologer, and great poet.

"The city of Colombo and its outskirts, are developing fast, with international property developers, vying for prime locations to set up multi storied hotels and apartment complexes. In this concrete jungle, proposed to even encroach into the ocean, it is refreshing to walk into into an architecture of a bygone era and lunch or dine in total comfort and privacy while you watch the world go by," Chairman, SriLankan Airlines, Nishantha Wickramasinghe said.

"Our theme at Semondu is fusion; fusion of cuisine, blending East and West and fusion of ambience, from colonial charm to modern magic," he added.

CEO, SriLankan Catering, Sarath Fernando said, "We take pride in establishing an ideal location in the city to enjoy fusion cuisine, while also contributing to the efforts of the Government to make Colombo a vibrant city and promote tourism".

Semondu is operated by SriLankan Catering a fully owned subsidiary of SriLankan Airlines. The airline's catering unit provides on-board catering for airlines that operate through Colombo. Its state of the art flight kitchen has a production capacity of over 25,000 meals per day, in a 24-hour operation, 365 days a year.

SriLankan Catering manages the 24-room "Serenediva" Transit Hotel at the Katunayake International Airport, and also runs a state-of-the-art, mass-scale laundry facility situated in the SLC Complex in the airport, capable of laundering up to 15,000 pieces per day.









Treasury prepares for Mahinda's third term

January 25, 2012, 9:15 pm

Treasury Secretary Dr. P. B. Jayasundera (left) looks on as Economic Development Minister Basil Rajapaksa drives a point home at press briefing yesterday. The ministry is in the process of uplifting rural economies through various projects aimed at empowering family units, villages and districts. Pic by Chaminda Hittatiya

The economic war is in full swing as the government attempts to eradicate poverty and narrow down regional disparities in preparation for Mahinda Rajapaksa's third term as President, Treasury Secretary Dr. P. B. Jayasundera said.

The government brought in the 18th Amendment to the constitution in September 2010 which would allow President Rajapaksa to seek a third term. He was elected to the country's top job in 2005 and won again in 2010 after successfully ending a thirty year conflict.

Dr. P. B. Jayasundera speaking to the media yesterday morning said the Ministry of Economic Development was in the process of implementing several programmes to eradicate poverty, bring about equitable development and narrow the regional disparities that persist today.

"Under the first economic policy manifesto, called Mahinda Chintana, of President Mahinda Rajapaksa covering the period 2006 to 2010 we have doubled per capita income from around US$ 1,000 to US$ 2,400. Under his second manifesto covering the period 2011 to 2015, per capita income would be doubled further from US$ 2,700 to US$ 5,000. We are preparing the environment for the third manifesto which would cover the period 2016 to 2020 which would take the per capita income to around US$ 10,000," Dr. Jayasundera said, apparently convinced that President Rajapaksa would be elected to serve a third term.





New Executive Director at the Regional Centre for Strategic Studies

January 25, 2012, 9:52 pm

Dr. Mallika Joseph has joined the Regional Centre for Strategic Studies (RCSS) as its new Executive Director (ED) from January 2012. Dr. Joseph succeeded Prof. Amal Jayawardane, who is now back as Professor of international relations at University of Colombo.

RCSS is a premier think tank working on regional security and strategic issues that concern South Asia. The Executive Director is the chief executive officer of the organization and the ED is appointed on a rotational basis from South Asian member countries. Former EDs of RCSS have been from Bangladesh, India, Pakistan, Nepal and Sri Lanka. RCSS is governed by a Board of Directors (BoD) and its research directions are set by International Research Committee (IRC). The members of the BoD and IRC are recognized scholars, diplomats, civil servants and members of the strategic community from South Asia and around the world.

Dr. Joseph has a PhD in international relations. Prior to joining RCSS, she was the Director of New Delhi-based think tank, Institute of Peace and Conflict Studies (IPCS). She has worked on various issues relating to South Asian security and her areas of interest include human security, security sector reform, international organized crime, international terrorism, Left Extremism, improvised explosive devices, small arms and light weapons.

She specializes on security sector reform (SSR) and is one of the 24 experts who were inducted into the UN Roster of SSR Experts in 2009. In 2007 and in 2006, she was part of the DFID high-level technical team that offered consultancy for broad based SSR engagement in Guyana; the mission resulted with the SSR Action Plan being tabled in the Guyanese Parliament and passed unanimously. In 2009, she also received the prestigious UK Chevening Fellowship which enabled her to undergo a 12 week training program/fellowship from January – April 2009 at the National Policing Improvement Agency at Bramshill, UK on the subject of international organised crime. Between January and September 2011, she was based in Geneva working with the International Security Sector Advisory Team (ISSAT) of the Geneva Centre for the Democratic Control of Armed Forces (DCAF) overseeing, designing and delivering SSR training.

Dr. Joseph, from India, is the first woman and youngest ever appointed to this prestigious position at RCSS.





Atomic Energy Authority out to control cowboys operating X-ray machines

January 25, 2012, 9:49 pm

By Pabodha Hettige

The National Atomic Energy Authority (NAEA) wants all operators of X-ray machines to obtain a license in order to prevent hazards caused by radiation, Chairman of the authority Dr. Ranjith Wijewardene said. The license would be issued for two years ensuring that the machines are not substandard and the public is protected from the radiation emitted by the machines.

"The Radiation Protection Division of the NAEA had started to inspect the machines in operation acting on complaints received from the public and legal action had been instituted against several technicians," he said.

According to NAEA Chairman the authority had discovered x-ray leakages and unclear images in sub standard x-ray machines used at several places.

Exposure to radiation could result in inducing cancer. Most of the sub-standard machines were unable to control the dose of radiation emitted.

Currently there were 740 X-ray machines registered under the NAEA in countrywide hospitals and medical laboratories. The authority had also sent letters to nearly 20 laboratories operating without licence for immediate registration.

The NAEA requests the public to obtain services from a registered X-ray technician and the public is also requested to inform the NAEA about the unregistered places on numbers 011-2533427/8.





Hey Dilly....

A tribute to outgoing Sri Lanka captain

January 25, 2012, 9:55 pm

by Rex Clementine

"Hey Dilly, problem, Prasanna has just got injured. We know it's tough, but can you keep wickets in this Test. Hey Dilly, by the way, we want to balance the side by playing an all-rounder at six, can you open the batting while keeping wickets as well in this Test. Hey Dilly, now that Sanath is gone, we want solid ten overs from someone in ODIs and can you make sure that you practice your off-spin. Hey Dilly, now we want to groom a young opener for the future, why don't you bat in the middle order from now onwards. Hey Dilly, all the seniors are quitting. We know our next four series are going to be against England, Pakistan, Australia and South Africa and there's no Murali while we don't have the balls to take on dirty Austin who doesn't want Malinga to play any Test Matches, can you take over the captaincy. Hey Dilly, we know like everyone else you want to play the IPL and we know that we messed it up by giving all players no objection certificates without specific dates. Journalists are gunning for our blood and only you can save us from embarrassment. Can you please come early from IPL to lead the side in two practice games in England? Hey Dillly, ok the tough series are over, can you f*** off now, we have got other options. And by the way, make sure you make some runs in Australia, you are 35 and you could be dropped any moment."

That is the plight of Tillekeratne Dilshan. The man who took over the job that no one wanted and had to work with three Head coaches in a short span of eight months and mind you achieved what the great Arjuna Ranatunga couldn't, to win a Test Match in South Africa to end Sri Lanka's 15 successive Tests without a win. He will also consider himself very unlucky for during his tenure there were some all-time lows, like the 82 all out in Cardiff and the 43 all out in Paarl.

Sri Lanka could have won the ODI series in South Africa. They had the Bloemfontein game in their hands, but that one over from Kosala Kulasekara proved to be costly. In the next two games, he returned to form as Sri Lanka chased totals of 300 to win in Kimberley and Jo'Burg.

He was unlucky in Sharjah too, where Sri Lanka had an excellent opportunity to win a Test Match, but the desert experienced rain in some 30 years at that point of the year and Pakistan escaped with a draw to win the series.

After the final ODI in South Africa, Dilshan addressing a media conference came up with some interesting insights. "I have always believed in promoting young players and let them feel comfortable and they are repaying that faith."

Talks of Mahela Jayawardene agreeing to take over the captaincy after the South African series had been there for a while and Dilshan was asked whether he has any intentions of quitting at the same media briefing. "I was appointed captain up to this series and I have no intentions of stepping down. I am very comfortable with captaincy," he said.

But surprisingly, less than 24 hours later he changed his decision. Was he told, 'either resign or face the consequences?'.

Now on to the choice of Dilshan's successor; Mahela Jayawardene, doesn't it all look funny. Along with the announcement of Jayawardene's elevation to lead the team in Australia, a joke was doing the rounds in cricket circles; that Sri Lanka Cricket was going to replace King Kekille in its emblem instead of the lion for our cricket bigwigs are fans of that bovine king.

One reason for Dilshan's failure as Sri Lanka's captain is Jayawardene himself. In the Test series losses to Pakistan, England and South Africa, Jayawardene didn't make a singe half-century. His self-centeredness was badly exposed when he responded to a suicidal single after tapping the ball back to the bowler at Centurion with the team in dire straits and was run out. He had to wait for a week to get that single to complete 10,000 Test runs.

Then after Sri Lanka conceded a 3-0 deficit in the ODI series, Jayawardene refrained from playing the next two ODIs in what officials called, 'as precautionary measures' as the series against Australia was coming up. The thought that there was the risk of the country suffering a 5-0 whitewash never bothered Jayawardene. Playing for the country is about playing with pain at times as Arjuna Ranatunga did once with a broken thumb facing the wrath of Waqar Younis to help Sri Lanka win a Test Match.

Then Lahiru Thirimanne, a 22-year-old young batsman comes into the side in place of Jayawardene and contributes as Sri Lanka chase targets of 300 to win the next two ODIs. Now then, shouldn't Jayawardene's place in the side be under question?

So when the first ODI of the tri-nation series gets underway in Australia, where is Jayawardene going to bat? Surely not number four for Dinesh Chandimal has grabbed that position with both hands. Then it will be unfair to replace Thirimanne after his match winning heroics in Jo'burg. But we have an option, sack Dilshan for he is too old and let Jayawardene open the innings.

Jayawardene may have a better record as captain than Dilshan, but why cricket fans will always adore the latter than his more articulate and flashy team-mate is because of putting country before money. Dilshan made a bold statement that playing for the national team should take precedence over the filthy lucre of Indian liquor barons and he was adored by all and sundry as he returned early from IPL to lead the side in England.

The media went after him on more than one occasion. During the recent tour to South Africa, he was grilled by both the touring and South African press for leaving out Thilan Samaraweera, the best player on tour for the ODIs against the Proteas. The criticism grew after the Sri Lankans suffered their heaviest defeat in Paarl, where they were bowled out for 43 runs. Dilshan faced all the criticism boldly and refrained from passing the ball onto the selectors' court owning up to collective responsibility. Not only did he face all the blame, he also attended every media conference on time instead of sending the coach, vice-captain or the batting coach to face the music. Neither did he threaten to sue media organizations as the criticism grew, nor did he question the patriotism of journalists like one of his contemporaries.

He celebrated his captaincy by hammering a career best 193 at Lord's and broke Sidath Wettimuny's record for most runs in an innings by a Sri Lankan at the home of cricket. The record had stood for 27 years, but in the same match his thumb was fractured by a Steve Finn delivery and he has never looked the same player since that injury. He did recently admit that he rushed back to the side from that injury.

It's not to say that Dilshan was completely out of fault. He gave in to forces outside the team when a call was made to drop Thilan Samaraweera for the tour of UAE. Then after suffering a series defeat against Pakistan, neither did he put his step down and say that the team needed the expertise of Samaraweera in the tough conditions of South Africa. That he was able to become the first captain to win a Test Match in South Africa was due to Samaraweera's heroics.

The selection of Kosala Kulasekara in the national squad is another one that has baffled many. Dilshan never bothered to play the best all-rounder in the squad; Thisara Perera until the series in South Africa was lost and in the end paid a huge price as Kosala's last over in Bloemfontein, a game where Sri Lanka were heading for a win, cost them dearly.

There were some stupid moments too that suggested that he didn't belong there and questioned his integrity. His decision to bowl first at Newlands with the momentum behind the team was insane while his decision to review his caught and bowled dismissal in Cardiff raised questions about his integrity.

But why Dilshan the captain should be celebrated is because he took over a job that no one wanted and more than that, for putting country before money.





US and war crimes

January 25, 2012, 7:59 pm

On January 24th, a US military tribunal made a mockery of the so-called justice system in the US. It acquitted seven US Marines involved in the massacre of 24 innocent civilians in Haditha in Iraq. A marine named Sergeant Frank Wuterich only received a silly three month sentence because of a plea bargain because even though he admitted to leading the massacre. He was let go after admitting dereliction of duty in a plea deal with the prosecutors. He will not serve any time in prison. Six marines had the charges against them dismissed and one was acquitted arguably because of the clouds of war and the confusion of battle influencing their decision to murder civilians.

The real story is that Sergeant Wuterich led his troops on a murderous rampage a day after some of his colleagues were killed by an enemy bomb. This is how people change in war. Among the dead were women, children and elderly people, including a man in a wheelchair. Relatives of the victims have expressed outrage at the outcome of the trial. His former squad members testified during the hearings that they were not fired upon nor did they find any weapons at the scene of the killings. Wuterich told the court that he ordered his men to "shoot first, ask questions later" so they would not hesitate in attacking the enemy, but he never intended to harm any civilians. Average Americans will not care and their Diplomats will spin this sad incident in their patriotic duty to protect the American image. Sri Lanka bureaucrats could learn a lesson about patriotism from them. Not one American political leader will ever agree to send them to ICJ or to another international tribunal where there will be fairer representation of facts from both sides. These horrible tragedies are a result of the terrible violence people have to face when they go to war. It does not matter if the soldiers are American or not. Not one US diplomat can wag their righteous fingers at other nations which experienced far more horrific wars and bombs for much longer than the US. Average Americans know this and not one American will agree to haul these murderers in front of international tribunals. Americans know to look after their own soldiers. Look at how Lt. Calley escaped any serious punishment after ordering the rape and massacre of nearly 500 innocent civilians including babies and women in My Lai in Vietnam in March 1968. He too got away far more lightly than lets say a Serbian soldier guilty of similar crimes.

There are many other crimes committed in Iraq that were covered up for many years and only accidentally get revealed to the public. How many other war crimes have US soldiers committed both in Iraq and Afghanistan and how many will ever be brought in front of the ICJ? Not one will ever be allowed to stand trial outside the USA and most will get away because war does terrible things to people's psyche and normal human beings get desensitized to violence and cannot relate to everyday life. They are on edge and they lose sight of basic human values in the heat of battle. So one expression of contrition (real or not) and the man who confessed to the cold blooded massacre of innocents gets away scot free. That is waging war American style.





PMG asks for change of post

January 25, 2012, 9:48 pm

by Ifham Nizam

Beleaguered Postmaster General K. M. B. Dissanayake has asked for a change of post from the Public Administration Ministry Secretary.

"I don't want the country and ministry to face difficulties because of me. All leaders campaigning for my removal have had bad track records. I know some will be very happy but during the course of the four years as the PMG, I did my best to introduce a number of things for the betterment of an age old institution," he told a media briefing held yesterday at the Postal Department Headquarters in Colombo.

He said that when he took over the post, the Postal Department was rated 183rd now it had moved up to 70th position. The Department had won internationally seven certificates and two trophies because of the initiatives made by him.

"Some unions became very angry when I introduced Information Technology and other services that are internationally recognised. IT system would have affected their overtime payments but the betterment of the institution is utmost," he said.

Dissanayake said that though he was not vindictive towards those behind moves to tarnish his image, he would take appropriate action in due course.

He also claimed that his exposure of fraud running to millions of rupees without dancing to the whims and fancies of some, was the obvious reason for constant protests against him.

"Being a senior Administrative Officer and the Chairman of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service, I had requested for suitable post that will be decided by the Cabinet shortly," he added.





Deemathie de Silva

Remembering 'Sudu' on her 91st birthday

January 25, 2012, 8:01 pm

'Sudu' was my mother's elder sister. She was very special to me as she took the role of my mother after she passed away 18 years ago. Sudu was only a phone call away...always there to lend a patient ear and advice me when I needed "emotional support''. After my mother's death Sudu never forgot the special gift my mother gave me for my birthday every year!

My childhood memories of her are too many to mention but one which fascinated me was the manner in which she used to powder my feet so gently before the socks and shoes were put on!! Sudu cared for me as a daughter as she had only aiya who was her only child.

To my aunt we never really '' GREW UP''..She used to be so protective of us..reminding me that I should lock the car doors if I was driving home alone and to call her when I reached home.

My family looked forward to Sudu Achchi's birthday which falls today (26th January).Her home at Police Park was full of nieces, nephews, cousins, Aiya's family and as the years rolled by.. the little great grand children! The tradition at No:10 was to give a pack of tasty short eats to those who couldn't attend, which was carried out till last year by her daughter in law Christine who looked after my aunt as she would her own mum.. 'THANK YOU' Christine. This gesture was extended to the staff as well and no one who visited her home went away without at least a cup of tea.

Sudu managed the family business at York Street, Fort, for many years. Her clients were the elite of Colombo. Many of whom would visit B.P.'s(as it was popularly known) to select a piece of jewellery or to buy an Omega watch. This was the period when B.P. de Silva's were known as the 'Royal Jeweller' of South – East Asia. She used to help my father choose a gift for my mother's birthday or their anniversary from her fabulous collection.

With her passing away I have not only lost my favourite aunt but also a dear friend to whom I could always turn to.





CEB heads for emergency power purchases

*Yet no date set for restoration of Norachcholai

January 25, 2012, 9:46 pm

By Ifham Nizam

With the 300MW coal power plant at Norachcholai having broken down last Friday, the third such major breakdown since its commissioning last year, the Ceylon Electricity Board is now hard pressed to find an alternate power source to meet the shortfall.

The Power and Energy Ministry early this week said that the plant would be back in operation by the first week of February, but yesterday they said it would take two weeks. However, officials at the plant said they were still not in a position to give an exact date for the resumption of electricity generation.

A senior engineer said that six million units that Norachcholai produced per a day now had to come from hydro or thermal power. Under present conditions the CEB was making use of the full capacity of all its plants to meet the demand and going at the present rate they could go on till April even without rainfall.

However, if the Norachchoali plant continued to be dysfunctional for more than three weeks or so, the situation would turn from bad to worse. "In that case, probably, emergency power purchases from the private sector is the only solution," he added.

A majority of the members of the powerful Engineers Union, however would not support the purchase of costly emergency power till their demands were settled. Engineers were keen on a ratio between the highest and lowest salary levels and an injustice caused to a senior Assistant General Manager.

Fearing a serious supply shortage in the first half of 2012, the CEB Board last month decided to call tenders for supplying 100MW of emergency power from March 2012.

The Island reliably learns that CEB General Manager Nihal Wickramasooriya informed the Ministry of Power and Energy, by letter dated December 9, 2011, that the emergency power purchases would cost around Rs. 13,000 million based on auto diesel and Rs. 8,000 million if heavy fuel oil (HFO) was used.

However, a number of senior Cabinet Ministers have said the amount was too much of a burden on the Treasury. Even President Mahinda Rajapaksa was not happy over the rush for emergency power purchases, according to officials.

Since its commissioning in March 2011 the Norachcholai coal power plant built by the Chinese has had several breakdowns.

In his address at the elaborate opening ceremony of the Norachcholai coal power plant last year, Power and Energy Minister assured the nation that power cuts were a thing of history and would be removed permanently from the vocabulary.

However, within a few short months of this promise, the CEB was forced to shed loads in mid-2011, following the highest rainfall recorded in history in the previous year. These unannounced power cuts were a direct result of the CEB's wrong policy of maximizing hydro generation in the first four months of 2011, without making use of cheap thermal power made available by several private power plants.

The CEB last used emergency power in early 2002. According to a document circulated by Minister Ranawaka, last year, the CEB had been making profits steadily until 1996. It was in 1996 that CEB resorted to purchasing emergency power for the first time (from Aggreko).





Trial of Rizana's false father

January 25, 2012, 9:51 pm

By Jayantha de Silva

At the on going trial, of a recruitment agency commission agent, on Tuesday (24), who had been charged with aiding and abetting to send Rizana Nafeek, a minor to Saudi Arabia on forged documents after altering her age, the wife of the job agent, testifying before High Court Judge Sunil Rajapakse, said that the accused in the case Abdul Salam had been falsely introduced as the father of Rizana.

Rizana was convicted by a Saudi Court for the murder of an infant in her charge while she was bottle feeding the baby.

At the outset, Witness Renuka Priyanganee, giving evidence led by Senior State Counsel (SSC) Deelipa Peris, said that she paid about Rs. 40,000 to the accused and a sub agent identified as Badur.

Initially when the witness came to know about the incident she took steps to inform the Sri Lanka Bureau of Foreign Employment, the Sri Lanka Embassy and the principal recruitment agency in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia about the incident.

Subsequently, her parents visited the Omar employment agency in Dehiwala.

When confronted with the plight of their daughter, the parents tearfully told her that abject poverty had compelled them to send Rizana to Saudi Arabia for employment.

Answering another query by the SSC whether the house maids are demarcated as nannies and cooks in that country, she replied that only after Rizana's incident such a procedure had been enforced.

She added that the latter had informed that they were helpless in the matter.

In reply to a query by the SSC she admitted that at the agency she scrutinized both the passport and the ID of Rizana in addition to her air ticket.

The Saudi Government had specified those over 18 should be recruited as house maids.





Former Manchester United captain Bryan Robson and striker Dwight Yorke arrive in Sri Lanka today as part of a sponsor partnership Airtel struck between the club and company three years ago. The initiative's main purpose is to allow football loving public to mingle with the global football culture and communities.

Going along with that they'll meet the media at Cinnamon Grand in the morning while 'fan interaction sessions' will take place in the afternoon at Excel World (2.30pm) and Majestic City (4.30pm) today and the next day they'll take a ride on the Galle Road to Kalutara football stadium where another session is scheduled around 3pm. It's not a daily occurrence for the country's football fanatics to interact with their EPL heroes from two seas away and this is an opportunity they wouldn't want to miss.

Bharti Airtel is one of the leading telecommunications companies in the world and its Sri Lankan branch Airtel Sri Lanka will strike a deal during this visit with the Manchester based club and from that many value added services (VAS) connected to the club will be available for Sri Lankan users of Airtel.

Bryan Robson, 55, is well known as an inspirational skipper and for being the longest serving captain in United history. He had a 13 year spell at United and he won 90 caps for England. .

Dwight Yorke, 40, nicknamed the 'smiling assassin' for his carefree attitude during matches and wonderful ability to smile even when the team is losing and goal poaching abilities out of nowhere, played for United from 98-2002. During the period he scored 47 goals in 95 appearances.





We were treated with dignity – released TN fishermen

January 25, 2012, 9:47 pm

Jan 25, 2012, RAMESWARAM: There was a pleasant twist to the tale of the nine Indian fishermen who returned to Rameswaram from Talaimannar in Sri Lanka on Tuesday morning. The fishermen, who arrived in an Indian Coast Guard vessel at Mandapam, told the media that they were treated with dignity and given good food and proper accommodation during their stay at Sri Lankan naval base in Talaimannar.

The naval personnel took them into custody on Saturday afternoon after two of their boats broke down in Lankan waters. Chinnian, Malaichamy, Tamilselvan and Selvam from one boat and Rajamanickam, Packia Joseph, Mariappan, Vijayakumar and the owner of the second boat, Ramu, were taken to the naval base where they were held for two days. On Monday night, the Sri Lankan navy released them at the International Maritime Boundary Line and the Indian Coast Guard took custody from there on.

Mariappan and Packia Joseph told the media that they were stranded in Lankan waters near Katchatheevu when the navy personnel found them. They casually asked the fishermen what the problem was. Upon learning that the vessels had broken down, they towed the boats to the naval base at Talaimannar. "We were treated in a dignified manner and they provided us good food and decent accommodation throughout our stay there," they said. Later, Ramu told TOI on phone that the naval personnel spoke to them in Tamil. "We feared the worst. But they treated us well. At Talaimannar, they repaired my boat," he said. "Besides food, they gave the fishermen comfortable beds to sleep and bed sheets. They didn't torture us in the name of inquiry but just asked how we ended up in that area. When we explained the problem, they helped us in a very humane way," he said.

However, many in the fishing community mentioned that there is a palpable change in the attitude of Lankan naval personnel towards Indian fishermen. Those who were stranded in Lankan waters during Cyclone Thane were treated well, according to them. "We feel that their attitude changed after we disassociated ourselves from the attack on Thirukumaran Natesan, a relative of Sri Lankan President Mahinda Rajapakse, by Tamil nationalist groups when he visited the temple here," said Selvakumar, a boat owner from Rameswaram.





Unique You

January 25, 2012, 7:51 pm

Former President of India,Dr. Abdul Kalam's Address at University of MoratuwaColombo

22 January 2012

I am delighted to address and interact with the Students and Faculty Members of the University of Moratuwa in this beautiful environment of Colombo. My greetings to all of you. I found that the University has chosen the motto "Vidyaiwa Sarwadhanam – meaning Wisdom is all Wealth". This has an important and powerful message to all the students and faculty members. The study of the website of the University indicates that the University has a vision "To be the most globally recognized Knowledge Enterprise in Asia". With this vision, the University has a mission "produce world class graduates in technological fields who will be relevant nationally and internationally". I am happy to know that the students of the university are self confident, flexible, highly employable and are trained to become "employment creators" instead of being "employment seekers". I congratulate the pioneers both present and past who have created and nurtured a robust educational system in the University of Moratuwa during the last 33 years. Today, I would like to share few thoughts on the topic "Unique You".

First let us see the ten unique personalities,.

Unique You

Dear friends, Look up, what do you see, the light, the electric bulbs. Immediately, our thoughts go to the inventor Thomas Alva Edison, for his unique contribution towards the invention of electric bulb and his electrical lighting system.

When you hear the sound of aero-plane going over your house, whom do you think of? Wright Brothers proved that man could fly, of-course at heavy risk and cost.

Whom does the telephone remind you of? Of course, Alexander Graham Bell.

When everybody considered a sea travel as an experience or a voyage, aunique person questioned during his sea travel from United Kingdom to India. He was pondering on why the horizon where the sky and sea meet looks blue? His research resulted in the phenomena of scattering of light. Of course, Sir CV Raman was awarded Nobel Prize.

Do you know an Indian Mathematician who did not have formal higher education but had inexhaustible spirit and love for mathematics which took him to contribute to the treasure houses of mathematical research – some of which are still under serious study and engaging all-available world mathematicians' efforts to establish formal proofs? He was a unique Indian genius who could melt the heart of the most hardened and outstanding Cambridge mathematician Prof G H Hardy. In fact, it is not an exaggeration to say that it was Prof. Hardy who discovered a great mathematician for the world. This mathematician was of-course Srinivasa Ramanujan for whom every number was a divine manifestation.

Do you know the scientist who is famous for Chandra Limit which describes the maximum mass (~1.44 solar masses) of a white dwarf star, or equivalently, the minimum mass for which a star will ultimately collapse into a neutron star to black hole following a supernova. Two of his students got the Nobel Prize before him. It is of-course the famous Nobel Laureate Chandrasekhar Subrmaniam .

Friends, there was a great scientific lady who is known for discovering Radium. She won not one, but two Nobel Prizes, one for physics and another for chemistry. Who is she? She is Madam Curie. Madam Curie discovered radium and she was doing research on the effect of radiation on human system. The same radiation which she discovered, affected her and she sacrificed her life for removing the pain of human life.

Do you know about a great human being with a spirit of service, who also won a Nobel Prize for her contributions? She said and practiced, "Give, give and give, until it hurts". She is Mother Teresa.

Do you know the Sri Lankan Physicist, academician and economist who had worked on energy, sustainable development and climate change and was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize along with Mr Al Gore in 2007? Of course he is the great Prof. Mohan Munasinghe.

Arthur Clarke, the visionary in space communication who made Sri Lanka his home revolutionized the world with his concept of geostationary communication satellites

Do you know the cosmic ray scientist who transformed into institution builder of institutions like Physical Research Laboratory, Ahmedabad – Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad and Indian Space Research Organisation? Of course he is the visionary Prof Vikram Sarabhai.

When I described to you young friends, these historical ten events, you all jumped. The scientist, technologist and great human being, who created the event, are unique personalities. Young friends, can you join such unique performers of scientific history? Yes, you can. Definitely, you can. Let us study together, how it can be made possible?

Friends, I have, so far, met 12 million youth in a decade's time. I learnt, "every youth wants to be unique, that is, YOU! But the world all around you, is doing its best, day and night, to make you just "everybody else". At home, dear young friends, you are asked by your parents to be like neighbours' children for scoring good marks. When you go to school, your teacher says "why not you become like the first five rankers in the class". Wherever you go, they are saying "you have to be somebody else or everybody else".

The challenge, my young friends, is that you have to fight the hardest battle, which any human being can ever imagine to fight; and never stop fighting until you arrive at your destined place, that is, a UNIQUE YOU! Friends what will be your tools to fight this battle, what are they: have a great aim in life, continuously acquire the knowledge, work hard and persevere to realize the great achievement.

Dear friends, when I see you all, I am thinking how you can achieve what you envision in your life?

Criteria for achievement for youth

How does achievement come? There are four proven steps; having an aim in life before 20 years of age, acquiring knowledge continuously, hard work towards the aim and perseverance to defeat the problem and succeed. In this connection let me recall famous verses of 13th century Persian Sufi poet Jalaluddin Rumi:

Wings to Fly

"You were born with potential.

You were born with goodness and trust.

You were born with ideas and dreams.

You were born with greatness.

You were born with wings.

You are not meant for crawling,

so don't, you have wings.

Learn to use them to fly."

- Jalaluddin Rumi

- 13th Century Persian Sufi Poet

My message to you, young friends, is that education gives you wings to fly. Achievement comes out of fire in our sub-conscious mind that "I will win". So, each one of you assembled here and elsewhere, will have "Wings of Fire". The Wing of Fire will indeed lead to knowledge which will make you a great technologist, or an Engineer, or a designer, or a teacher, or a political leader, or a bureaucrat or a diplomat or you would like to walk on the Moon and Mars or anything you want to be. I would like to assert that "No youth today need to fear about the future". How? The ignited mind of the youth is the most powerful resource on the earth, under the earth and above the earth.

System design, system integration and system management

Since I am in the midst of students being prepared for techno-managerial expertise, I would like to give my experience with a teacher who taught me system design, system integration and system management in an integrated learning environment.

While I was studying Aeronautical Engineering in Madras Institute of Technology (MIT), Chennai, (1954-57), during the third year of my course, I was assigned a project with five other colleagues, to design a low-level attack aircraft. I was given the responsibility of system design and system integration by integrating the team members. Also, I was responsible for aerodynamic and structural design of the project. The other five members of my team took up the design of propulsion, control, guidance, avionics and instrumentation of the aircraft. My design teacher Prof. Srinivasan, the then Director of MIT, was our guide. He reviewed the project and declared my work to be gloomy and disappointing. He didn't lend an ear to my difficulties in bringing together data-base from multiple designers. I asked for a month's time to complete the task, since I had to get the inputs from five of my other colleagues without which I cannot complete the system design. Prof. Srinivasan told me "Look, young man, today is Friday afternoon. I give you three days time, by Monday morning if I don't get the configuration design, your scholarship will be stopped." I had a jolt in my life, as scholarship was my lifeline, without which I cannot continue with my studies. There was no other way out, but to finish the task. My team felt the need for working together round the clock. We didn't sleep that night, working on the drawing board skipping our dinner. On Saturday, I took just an hour's break. On Sunday morning, when I was near completion, I felt someone's presence in my laboratory. It was Prof. Srinivasan studying my progress. After looking at my work, he patted and hugged me affectionately. He had words of appreciation: "I knew I was putting you under stress and asking you to meet a difficult deadline. You have done a great job in system design".

Through this review mechanism of Prof Srinivasan, I was injected the necessity of understanding the value of time by each team member and brought out the best from the system design team. I realized that if something is at stake, the human minds get ignited and the working capacity gets enhanced manifold. That's what exactly happened. The message is: whatever be their specialization, the students should be trained to systems approach and projects, which will prepare them for new products, innovation and undertaking higher organizational responsibilities. A great teacher inspires the young students like Prof. Srinivasan.

I am confident that the University of Moratuwa will break all the inter-disciplinary barriers and promote inter-disciplinary research among the students and faculty members.





India struggling at 61-2; Australia 604-7 decl.

January 25, 2012, 9:56 pm

by Ihithisham Kamardeen

ADELAIDE, Australia (AP) — Captains past and present — Ricky Ponting and Michael Clarke — scored double tons and shared a record 386-run stand to give Australia the stranglehold after two days of the fourth and final test against India at the Adelaide Oval.

After Australia declared on 604-7, India struggled to 61-2 at stumps on Wednesday, still needing 343 runs to avoid the ignominy of following on.

Australia is well placed to push for a 4-0 series cleansweep following wins in the first three tests in Melbourne, Sydney and Perth.

The 386-run fourth-wicket stand ranks fourth highest for Australia in all tests. Ponting scored 221 while Clarke made 210 runs.

India's reply got off to the worst possible start, and lost stand-in skipper Virender Sehwag (18) and Rahul Dravid (1) in the space of five runs and slumped to 31-2.

Sehwag hit a return catch to fast bowler Peter Siddle off the leading edge, and Dravid was bowled off his elbow by swing bowler Ben Hilfenhaus. It was the sixth time in seven innings Dravid has been bowled in this series.

Opener Gautham Gambhir, 30 not out, and Sachin Tendulkar, 12 not out, battled through the remaining 54 minutes to stumps and will resume on Thursday, with Tendulkar chasing his 100th international century, having been stuck on 99 since last March.

The Ponting-Clarke unison left India despirited and physically drained, with the tourists toiling in the field under a harsh sun for over six hours as the Australian pair effectively put the game out of India's reach.

Ponting and Clarke began where they left off, resuming at 335-5, and soon registered the highest stand for any wicket in a test at the Adelaide Oval, surpassing the 341 run stand set by South Africa's Eddie Barlow and Graeme Pollock against Bob Simpson's Australia in 1963/64.

Ponting was happy to play second fiddle to Clarke as the current captain dominated the fourth wicket partnership.

Clarke reached his double ton before Ponting and lunch, but fell to the first ball he faced after the break — bowled by swing bowler Umesh Yadav for 210 runs. By coincidence, it was the 210th time a batsman had scored 210 runs or more in test cricket.

The stand fell just two runs short of Australia's highest fourth wicket stand against any country — 388 between Bill Ponsford and Don Bradman against England at Headingley in 1934.

Ponting reached his sixth double century of his 162-test career by majestically pulling Yadav to the mid wicket boundary for his 21st four.

India, buoyed by Clarke's dismissal, took three more wickets in the hour after lunch including a tired Ponting caught on the square leg boundary by Tendulkar off Zaheer Khan (2-96).

Ponting and Clarke had come together with Australia in a spot of bother at 84-3, and decisively turned the balance of the match over the next 6-1/2 hours of play. It was the second giant partnership the two had compiled in this series, having put on 288 in the second test in Sydney, which Australia won by an innings and 68 runs.

Clarke hit a six and 26 boundaries and took his series tally to 589 runs (average 147.25) including a career-best 329 in Sydney.





Colombo City Tour celebrates anniversary with children of war heroes

January 25, 2012, 9:25 pm

The Colombo City Tour, Sri Lanka's first ever open deck sightseeing tour which is a venture of Sri Lanka Tourism and Ebert Silva Holidays celebrates its 2nd Anniversary on the 28th of January 2012. Marking this day, the Colombo City Tour has organized a full day event for 100 children of the war heroes, who laid down their lives and were disabled in the effort to bring lasting peace to our motherland. The children aged between 10 – 15 years will be arriving from outstations and will be given the opportunity of witnessing and experiencing the unique heritage of Sri Lanka's premier city, with entertainment and fun.

"It is indeed a pleasure for the Colombo City Tour to celebrate it's 2nd Anniversary with the children of the heroes of this land. It is the first time in Colombo for most of these children. We are happy to be showcasing Colombo to them, a city able to beautifully open up to visitors from around the world because of the utmost sacrifices made by their mothers and fathers." Said Rajini de Silva Mendis, Managing Director, Ebert Silva Holidays.

The children will reach Colombo in the morning and be treated with refreshments at the Galle Face Hotel forecourt. They will then board two open deck double decker coaches to embark on a unique ride around Colombo, witnessing the heritage of Sri Lanka's premier city with professional commentaries. The Independence Square, Gangarama Seema Malakaya and a visit to the National Museum will add to the knowledge and experience they will gather whilst on tour. Lunch and treats too will be provided with souvenirs to remember of this unique and joyful experience in Colombo.

The Seva Vanitha unit of the Defense Ministry, Sri Lanka Tourism Promotions Bureau, Sri Lanka Transport Board, the Galle Face Hotel and Elephant House join Ebert Silva Holidays and the Colombo City Tour to make this unique event a success.





Butterfingered England allows Pakistan to recover

January 25, 2012, 8:39 pm

ABU DHABI, United Arab Emirates (AP) — Half centuries by captain Misbah-ul-Haq and Asad Shafiq helped Pakistan recover to 256-7 against butterfingered England on day one of the second test on Wednesday.

Misbah, who won the toss, was unbeaten on 83 while Shafiq made a composed 58 as scratchy fielding allowed them to put on a century-stand for the fifth wicket.

What was expected to be a batsmen's pitch turned out to have more life than Pakistan expected. England, despite its missed chances, still made stumps with hopes of bowling out Pakistan for under 300, while the home side could harbor confidence of passing 300 as long as their captain stayed at the crease. He's already been there for nearly four hours.

"We have lost two wickets more than we would have liked," Pakistan opener Taufeeq Umar said.

"The good thing is Misbah is still there and if we manage a 300-plus total then our spinners have a good chance because spin on this pitch has surprised everyone."

Misbah, dropped on 30 by James Anderson, hit five fours and four sixes. Shafiq, dropped on 53 by Alastair Cook close to the wicket, hit seven boundaries and a straight six off recalled spinner Monty Panesar.

Misbah took 142 balls to raise his half century but finished the day with a flourish by hitting Panesar for successive sixes in the last over.









Oil hovers near US$ 99 as Iran boycott expands

January 25, 2012, 9:02 pm

BANGKOK (AP) — Oil prices hovered near $99 a barrel Wednesday, a day after Australia announced it was joining a boycott by Western nations against Iran, the world's No. 3 oil exporter, over a suspected nuclear weapons program.

Benchmark crude for March delivery was down 6 cents to $98.89 per barrel in the late afternoon Bangkok time in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract fell 63 cents to end at $98.95 in New York on Tuesday.

Brent crude for March delivery was up 31 cents at $110.34 a barrel on the ICE Futures Exchange in London.

Australian Foreign Minister Kevin Rudd announced Tuesday during a trip to London that his government had decided to follow the European Union, which announced Monday it would ban the import of Iranian crude starting in July.

The initiative to use oil to force Iran back to nuclear talks began last month, when the U.S. enacted new sanctions targeting Iran's central bank and its ability to sell petroleum abroad. The U.S. doesn't buy Iranian oil, but the new sanctions make it harder for Iran to sell crude.

Asian countries, already Iran's biggest customers, aren't joining the Europeans in banning Iranian crude. The move has been harshly criticized by oil-ravenous China, which is believed likely to sop up any excess Iranian crude at advantageous prices.

Meanwhile, analysts said that oil prices, amid expectations of tightening supplies, would remain somewhat elevated until the dust settles.

"There are other nations that will be boycotting Iran. That is probably adjusting market expectations of tighter supplies," said Natalie Robertson, a commodities analyst with ANZ Banking Group in Melbourne.

"There is going to be a rebalancing. Iran will have to find new customers for its crude since its usual customers are cutting down imports. During that period, there is going to be some time while the market adjusts to the imbalances, and that is what is keeping prices supported."

In other energy trading, heating oil rose 0.8 cent to $3.02 per gallon and gasoline futures were up 0.7 cent at $2.82 per gallon. Natural gas rose 5.5 cents to $2.61 per 1,000 cubic feet.





International Mathematical Olympiad 2012

January 25, 2012, 9:53 pm

International Mathematical Olympiad the Olympics for Mathematics among students under age 20, from all countries is to be held in Mar del Plata, Argentina. The Sri Lankan team will be selected by Sri Lanka Olympiad Mathematics Foundation in collaboration with University of Colombo.

As the first step, Sri Lankan Mathematical Senior Olympiad 2012 will be held on February 18, 2012. The closing date for the applications will be January 28, 2012 and the application fee is Rs.350/= per student.

The application can be downloaded from our website www.slmathsolympiad.org or can be collected from Department of Mathematics, University of Colombo, Colombo 03. For more information please call 071-0532348.





Openers strike big for Joseph Vaz

Under-19 Cricket

January 25, 2012, 8:37 pm

By Reemus Fernando

Openers Kasun Vidura and Rukshan Shehan put on a first wicket stand of 144 runs for Joseph Vaz College to post 160 for two wickets at close against Wesley in their second innings in their match which concluded at Wennappuwa yesterday.

Joseph Vaz earned first innings points when they restricted Wesley to 193 runs in reply to their 237 runs.

Charith Rajapaksha and Harith Wanigarachchi scored valuable half centuries for Isipatana College to earn first innings honours against St. Benedict's College in their Under-19 match which ended at Kotahena yesterday.

S.D.S. Jayasinghe College, Dehiwala (A Division II team) scored what its officials called their tenth outright victory as they beat Division III team Dharmapala College, Kottawa by two wickets in their fixture played at Dehiwala yesterday.





Asoka, Royal clash today

Under-13 Cricket Quarter-Finals

January 25, 2012, 8:38 pm

The quarter-finals of the Inter-school Under-13 Cricket tournament will commence today with Asoka Vidyalaya taking on Royal College, Colombo at Thurstan College.

While St. Joseph's College, Maradana meet giant killers Kalutara Vidyalaya, who beat one of the tournament favourits, Ananda College in the pre-quarter finals, at Royal Ground on Saturday, St. Sebastian's College, Moratuwa and Thurstan College will clash at Darley Road on Sunday.

Southern Province powerhouses Richmond College, Galle and Dharmasoka College, Ambalangoda will meet in the fourth quarter-final at Ratgama on Monday.

The quarter finals of the Under-13 Division II tournament too will commence on Sunday.





Manmohan Singh goes on Twitter, gets 13,000 followers on Day 1

NEW DELHI, January 25: Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh started a Twitter account late on Monday in a bid to inform people about the work done by his office.

He joins 62 other leaders across the globe who have taken to tweeting. They include US President Obama, Russian President Dmitry Medvedev, French President Nicolas Sarkozy, and the chattiest of the lot Hugo Chavez, the President of Venezuela. Obama has garnered 12 million followers so far.

On Day 1 of Singh's debut, his twitter account, @PMOIndia, attracted 13,000 followers. It will be handed by his communications team, now headed by Pankaj Pachauri, a former television anchor.

PMO stands for the Prime Minister's Office.

Within hours of opening the account late on Monday, Singh had tweeted thrice.

Singh has often been criticised for being inaccessible to the media. Unlike President Obama and other media-savvy global leaders, he rarely interacts with the media or holds press conferences.

A good many of his well-intentioned schemes have failed to get popular support because of his and his government's inability to reach out to the people through the media to explain their significance.

Many pieces of legislation and economic reforms proposed by Singh have floundered on the floor of Parliament, mostly because Singh, his ministers and officials have not been able to "sell" them even to parliamentarians belong to the Congress Party and its allies in the ruling United Progressive Alliance (UPA), let alone the opposition MPs.

Sources in the beleaguered PMO say a lot of work gets done in the prime minister's office. Singh makes 30-45 trips in a year, and delivers dozens of poorly written speeches in a borning fashion.

There are 350 television news channels hungry for hot and exclusive stories, and several thousand newspapers in India, most of them independent and privately owned. The obvious lack of proper communication skills within the UPA dispensation has been getting it a bad press ever since the regime returned to power in the 2009 general election.

In recent weeks, Singh and his colleagues and officials seem to have realised this shortcoming. So off went Harish Khare, his media advisor, and in came Pankaj Pachauri, a journalist with years of experience in news television.

Putting PMOIndia on Twitter appears to be his idea.

Singh also got a proactive civil servant, Pulot Chatterjee, as principal secretary in the PMO. Chatterjee, who has worked with Singh and Congress Party President Sonia Gandhi for several years, returned from a stint in the World Bank in Washington and rejoined the PMO. He is now making serious efforts to put some life into the moribund PMO.

Chatterjee wants to make the PMO the centre of action once again, just as it used to be when stalwarts like PC Alexander and Brajesh Mishra headed the institution during the regimes of Indira Gandhi and Atal Behari Vajpayee, respectively, as prime ministers.

PMO officials say all the work being done and important decisions taken in their office do not get reflected properly, and not going out to the people. They hope the Twitter account will help in disseminating all this information. It will also help Singh to reach out to the social media-savvy young, who account for nearly half of India's 1,234-million people

Singh may also send out personal tweets under his own signature in the future.

His first tweet was a remark he made while meeting young recipients of a bravery award here. "You make all of us proud," he tweeted.

A subsequent Tweet carried a photograph of his with the recipients of the award.





Djokovic, Murray, Nadal, Federer in Aussie semis

January 25, 2012, 8:35 pm

MELBOURNE, Australia (AP) — Defending champion Novak Djokovic appeared physically unwell for much of his quarterfinal match but still beat David Ferrer 6-4, 7-6 (4), 6-1 to complete a blockbuster semifinal lineup at the Australian Open.

He leads the top four men in tennis to the semis at Melbourne Park — Djokovic against No. 4 Andy Murray, who won his quarterfinal match earlier Wednesday 6-3, 6-3, 6-1 over Kei Nishikori of Japan.

On Thursday, No. 2 Rafael Nadal plays No. 3 Roger Federer, the first time the two former top-ranked stars have met in a semifinal since the 2005 French Open.

Djokovic rubbed the back of his upper left leg on several occasions, looked on the verge of being physically sick in the second set and buried his head in towels several times during breaks. During the third set, a tired-looking Djokovic sat down on a linesman's chair during a line-call video challenge by Ferrer.

"I was lucky to get out of the second set, it was a big mental advantage to get two sets up," Djokovic said.

After the match, he appeared to play down any on-court physical difficulties, saying "you have to hang in there."

The Nadal-Federer semifinal matchup has been rarely possible because the pair held the top two spots for most of the time between 2005 and 2010, meaning they could only meet in the finals after being placed in opposite sides of the draw.

Djokovic said he'd be watching the Nadal and Federer match like any tennis fan.

"I will enjoy it from my couch, they're two out of four or five of the greatest players to play this game, they've been so dominant," Djokovic said. "Every time they play it's a treat. I'm going to have a nice dinner at home and watch them."

Murray, for his part, is also surprised to be not facing Nadal in the semifinals.

"It has been amazing, I pretty much drew to be in Nadal's half ... almost every Slam," Murray said. "I can't remember the last time I wasn't in his half of the draw. It's been a long time."

On the women's side, former and reigning Wimbledon winners Maria Sharapova and Petra Kvitova — two of the three players who can take the No. 1 ranking a— advanced to the semifinals.

Sharapova won 6-2, 6-3 on Wednesday against fellow Russian Ekaterina Makarova, who knocked out five-time champion Serena Williams in the previous round. Kvitova reached the semifinals at Melbourne Park for the first time with a 6-4, 6-4 win over unseeded Italian Sara Errani.

The other player who can reach No. 1 — third-seeded Victoria Azarenka — plays defending champion Kim Clijsters in the other semifinal Thursday.

Sharapova must repeat her 2008 Australian title run if she is to take over the No. 1 spot from Caroline Wozniacki, who lost any chance of maintaining her top ranking when she lost in the quarterfinals to Clijsters. Kvitova only has to match or better Azarenka to take the top spot.

Sharapova has dropped one set and lost 21 games in five matches.

"It's been a long road back to this stage," said Sharapova, who spent 10 months off the court with a shoulder injury that required surgery.





Chettinad cuisine at Navratna, Taj Samudra

January 25, 2012, 9:27 pm

Navratna arguably Colombo's finest Indian restaurant serves you South Indian delicacies when speciality Chef Arasakuma joins us from Chennai to host the Chettinad Cuisine Promotion from Friday 20th Jan to Sunday 05th Feb. This unique food promotion will feature mouth-watering delicacies from the Chettinad region of Tamil Nadu, India.

Chettinad cuisine is one of the spiciest and the most aromatic of all India's fine cuisines. Stemming from the infatuations of richly cultured Chettiar people, this cuisine is truly distinctive with its blend of hot & tangy flavor of freshly ground "masalas". The spices that weave together include marathi mokku (dried flower pods), anasipoo (star aniseed) and kalpasi (dried bark), tamarind, whole red chillies, cinnamon and cloves to mention a few. Whilst Chettinad food is spicy, you need not worry about it setting your palate on fire ... the spiciness is less from chilly and more from pepper, ginger and cumin.

Spices are a deep passion in Chettinad cuisine, and no self respecting Chettinad chef settles for anything other than freshly blended dry or wet combinations of spices, herbs and nuts.









*Interest rates under pressure as rupee defense continues * Treasury Sec. says economy would be resilient like in 2008/09; but that was a different time and we still needed IMF support

January 25, 2012, 9:19 pm

While the Central Bank continues to defend the exchange rate, with the International Monetary Fund review mission in town likely to contend this stance as reserves continue to diminish and domestic interest rates come under pressure, Economic Development Minister Basil Rajapaksa called for a realistic exchange rate regime.

"We must have a realistic exchange rate which would reflect the situation in the trade deficit, but we must not have wide fluctuations going either way," Rajapaksa said in response to a query raised by The Island Financial Review regarding the pressures on the balance of payments and domestic interest rates at a media briefing yesterday (Jan. 25).

The Central Bank has sold US$ 1,560.22 million in four months (July to October 2011) to keep the exchange rate stable amidst severe import demand. The government announced a 3 percent devaluation of the rupee on November 21, 2011. Since then, dealers say the Central Bank had sold over US$ 1 billion to keep the rupee at Rs. 113.89/90 against the dollar.

Treasury Secretary Dr. P. B. Jayasundera who was also present at the briefing taking up the question raised by The Island Financial Review, said there was no immediate threat to the balance of payments. He recently told foreign newswire services another rupee-devaluation was necessary along with a tightening of interest rates.

"We do not see a threat to our balance of payments at the moment. We have to watch oil prices closely and this is our only worry because we have no choice but import oil, unless we find our own source by 2015. But we can substitute a significant portion of some of our other imports in order to ease the pressure," Dr. Jayasundera said going on to add that there was no justification of importing certain food items which could be produced here. He even suggested that farmers must be convinced to grow chillies.

"I believe our economy is resilient and we could withstand any shock like we did in 2008 and 2009," Dr. De Silva said, discounting the need to take drastic measures to ease the negative pressures on the balance of payments. But what he did not say was that at that time the country was facing a balance of payments crisis and had to approach the IMF for assistance, which came late.

The end of the war had buoyed the economy which attracted foreign investment and the Central Bank was buying the dollars and building up reserves which resulted in the money market holding an excessive rupee positions, sometimes over Rs. 140 billion overnight.

Yesterday excess rupee liquidity amounted to Rs. 19 billion and some banks are unable to maintain liquidity positions because high credit growth and Central Bank selling dollars to prop-up the rupee were eroding liquidity. This is in turn putting pressure on domestic interest rates.

Treasury bill yields across all tenures stayed flat at yesterday's primary market auction because the Central Bank has a degree of control. Interbank borrowing rates have continued to inch upwards.

Call money interest rates for interbank borrowings without security reached 9.07 percent yesterday from 8.96 the previous day and the highest since reaching 9.12 percent on January 11. Market repo rates for interbank borrowings backed up by security inched up to 8.20 percent from 8.13 percent the previous day.





Indian trawlers seized off Pulmoddai amidst common fishing ground proposal

January 25, 2012, 9:46 pm

By Shamindra Ferdinando

Close on the heels of former Indian President A. P. J. Abdul Kalam suggesting Indian and Sri Lanka's northern fishermen could share the Palk Bay, the Sri Lanka Navy apprehended six Indian trawlers along with 43 fishermen north of Pulmoddai on the east coast.

The proposal was made in spite of Sri Lanka recently rejecting the possibility of sharing its territorial waters with India.

The SLN said that Fast Attack Craft (FACs) P 484 and P 485 on routine patrol seized the boats north of Pulmoddai on Tuesday evening.

The seizure was the second this month followed by the arrest of 13 fishermen along with two trawlers 6.5 nautical miles east of Pulmoddai on Jan. 11 for what the SLN called willfully trespassing in Sri Lankan waters. The government released them as a goodwill gesture ahead of high level talks in Colombo to settle poaching issue.

Authoritative sources told The Island that it would be a grave mistake on Sri Lanka's part to accept a common fishing ground due to sharp difference in the size and capacity of the two fishing fleets. Sources said that since the conclusion of the conflict in May 2009, the Indian fishing fleet had stepped-up operations across the Indo-Lanka maritime boundary in spite of efforts on the part of the SLN.

Indian and Sri Lankan fishermen could fish in the Palk Bay in turns to avoid the current problems, or switch to deep sea fishing for better returns, Kalam said at the end of his four-day visit to Sri Lanka. He was responding to a media query at a press conference in Colombo on Tuesday.

Former President Kalam said that of the seven days in the week, Indian and Sri Lankan fishermen should fish in turns for three days each, leaving one day for resting. During this time, both fishermen could cross each others boundaries. "Wherever there is fish they cross borders. Nobody can stop them... Of course, both governments will have to bless them," he said.





Japanese educationalist puzzled by Lankan university protest

January 25, 2012, 9:51 pm

By Jayantha de Silva

The current wave of university students' strikes over the establishment of private universities and the presentation of the private university bill was viewed negatively by two eminent educationalists from Japan.

"In Japan only 20 percent are state universities. In contrast to Sri Lanka Japanese university students ceased to resort to strikes to win their demands since the 70's, said Professor Kondo Yuichi, Dean of Admissions, of the Ritsumeikan Asia Pacific University (APU) and Professor of the College of Asia Pacific Studies, in an exclusive interview with The Island on Tuesday (24).

The APU signed agreements with D. S. Senanayake College, Colombo and Trinity College Kandy to offer scholarships to students of the two schools to study at APU.

The Principal of D. S. Senanayake College, Dayaratne Dissanayake and the Principal of Trinity College, Brig. Udaya Ariyaratne and Prof. Kondo Yuichi of APU signed the agreements.

Prof. Yuichi said Sri Lanka also should have private universities due to the fact that the central government's resources were limited. Private universities' mission is to identify what to teach' in context of the National Policy.

He called for the private universities to be empowered with the right to award a wider spectrum of higher degrees with a view to mould future leaders of Asia.

When queried as to how the examinations should be conducted, he explained that one examination could be held by the university itself and the second examination to be held at the national level by the government, thus eliminating a lowering of academic standards.

Asked how the less affluent student segments could gain entry to the private universities he said that in Japan such students were granted long term low interest loans amounting to almost zero interests.

A stipulated requirement was that the loans had to be repaid once the recipients were gainfully employed.

Governments were progressively getting weak.

Sri Lanka should take a cue from Korea and western nations where private universities were in the main stream of education, the Professor noted.

Referring to the advantages students stand to accrue in private universities he explained that by empowering private universities to design their own programmes of studies, it enabled students to select courses according to their aspirations.

Ms. Ikue Matsumo, Senior Admission Counsellor of the (APU) said that opening of private universities augured well for Sri Lanka.

Speaking on modalities on entry requirements, she advocated a minimum three passes at GCE A/L for entry should be stipulated.

She justified low entry requirements as "more can gain entry" to the university.

In addition, a score of 5.5 in IELTS and the stipulated standard in TOFEL should be made mandatory, she said.





Open letter to Namal Rajapaksa

January 25, 2012, 8:02 pm

The purpose of this letter is to compliment you on your impeccable behaviour. I saw you in Kandy on January 23. Of course, people noticed you on the road; but you did not show-off with glaring lights and sirens, and other boisterous behaviours that are addictions of common minor officials...who only get the wrath of others and are cursed.)

Your vehicle (and the escort Land Rover) moved in a dignified manner. Your vehicle stopped at traffic intersections, and waited for traffic to clear before proceeding. You did not cut in front of anyone, did not speed and drove with the flow of traffic.

We (the passengers in my vehicle, myself and fellow road users, the people of Sri Lanka) are most impressed by your genteel behaviour. You won accolades and hearts of people.

Again, compliments on the BMW and winning the hearts and minds of the people.





Bourse stabilizes, indices up

*JKH continues to generate turnover

January 25, 2012, 9:19 pm

The Colombo bourse stabilized yesterday after two days of steep falls with both indices gaining modestly – the All Share by 20.20 points (0.36%) and the Milanka by 26.03 points (0.55%) on a turnover of Rs.628.9 million, down from the previous day's Rs.1.28 billion, with 106 gainers ahead of 85 losers.

JKH, Asia Asset Finance and Swanamahal were the big business generators in that order.

"Turnover wasn't very much," a broker admitted. "But at least the market held its ground without falling further."

JKH topped the turnover league with over 0.4 million shares done between Rs.159.20 and Rs.162 closing flat at Rs.160 contributing Rs.70.7 million to turnover followed by AAF which gained 40 cents to close at Rs.6.60 on nearly 8.4 million shares done between Rs.6.10 and Rs.6.70 generating a turnover of Rs.53.6 million.

Swarnamahal gained Rs.1.10 to close at Rs.114.90 on over 0.4 million shares done between Rs.107.10 and Rs.116 contributing Rs.49.3 million to turnover.

Other stocks that showed quantity and price gains included Fortress up a rupee to close at Rs.20.30 on nearly 1.7 million shares, ERI up 30 cents to close at Rs.27.80 on over 1.3 million shares and Ceylinco Finance up 30 cents to close at Rs.11.50 on nearly 1.9 million shares.

"We saw some activity on Ceylon Leather controlled by ERI which gained Rs.4 to close at Rs.102 on nearly 0.2 million shares done between Rs.92 and Rs.102," a broker said.





Ceylon Continental Hotel brings 'One Last time' at the Heist

January 25, 2012, 9:26 pm

On the 31st of January, Heist will be all decked up and ready to give all that it's got 'one last time' with the closing down blast of Heist. The party will start at 6.00pm and will continue till dawn. Sink your teeth into the hotels mouthwatering snacks and enjoy some amazing beverage deals with 50% discount on all shots, while you get the party started to music by Black and Dj Aravinda.

This night full of entertainment will be priced at Rs 1000 and ladies will walk in free. All guests will be treated to a welcome drink and the night will include some great competitions such as rob a man and best cat walk, with amazing prizes such as hot air balloon ride tickets.

The main attraction at the event includes a premium liquor auction. There will be many more surprises as well. Enjoy the Hotel's popular fashion show as the ladies showcase some great new designs and all the ladies at the event will receive gifts sponsored by Oriflame at 10.pm. Stephanie Sriwardane, Ms Sri Lanka for Ms Universe will be the main compeer for the event.





Udeeptha Balasuriya reach 1000 runs for the season in his tenth match for Ibbagamuwa Central in their Under-19 Division-II Tournament match against St. Mary's College, Kegalle yesterday. The top order batsmen scored heavily for Ibbagamuwa Central this season and scored three centuries and eight half centuries on his way to reach 1000-run milestone. He has reached the milestone in 16 innings and has maintained an average of 62.94 runs. Although he has helped his school to take the upper hand in their school encounters his milestone of reaching 1000 runs yesterday coincided with a defeat. He could contribute only 18 runs for his team.





Weeratunga heads committee to formulate broadband policy

January 25, 2012, 9:49 pm

By Maheesha Mudugamuwa

A committee headed by the President's Secretary had been appointed to formulate a national policy on the usage of broadband internet, Director General of the Sri Lanka Telecommunications Regulatory Commission (TRC) Anusha Palpita said.

He stressed that a supportive policy and good governance were essential for broadband deployment and take-up to succeed.

The policy would be presented to parliament within the next six months, he added.

The DG said that the regulators saw the need for a policy to promote broadband development across all sectors and to liberalize the broadband market.

The establishment of a policy governing the public authorities, investors and users and wider range of stakeholders could serve as a platform for developing a common understanding, vision and strategy, he said.

Pelpita added that the policy was expected to provide solutions to many issues relating to the use of broadband internet and also the public would benefit through this policy.





Retired Indian judge dismisses Salman Rushdie as a "poor" writer

January 25, 2012, 10:05 pm

BY S VENKAT NARAYAN Our Special Correspondent

NEW DELHI, January 25: A retired judge of the Indian Supreme Court today dismissed Salman Rushdie as a "poor" and "sub-standard writer" who would have remained largely unknown but for his controversial book Satanic Verses.

Justice Markandey Katju, now the Chairman of Press Council of India (PCI), lambasted the admirers of the India-born author based in Britain, and said they suffer from "colonial inferiority complex" that a writer living abroad has to be great.

"Salman Rushdie dominated the Jaipur Literature Festival (JPL). I do not wish to get into the controversy whether banning him was correct or not. I am raising a much more fundamental issue," he said in a statement issued here today.

"I have read some of Rushdie's works and am of the opinion that he is a poor writer and, but for Satanic Verses, would have remained largely unknown. Even Midnight's Children is hardly great literature," Katju argued.

He went on: "The whole problem with the so-called educated Indians of today is that they still suffer from the colonial inferiority complex. So, whoever lives in London and New York must be a great writer, while writers living in India are inferior."









Salley challenges UPFA Group to keep him out from meetings

Beleaguered UPFA Colombo Municipal Councillor Azad Salley said their group in the CMC had no authority to keep him out of meetings "and challenged them to do so."

Salley, who has fallen out of grace with his own UPFA Group for his outspokenness on various issues, made these comments subsequent to the UPFA Group deciding not to invite Salley to any Group meetings and their letter to President Mahinda Rajapaksa to conduct a disciplinary inquiry against Salley. The UPFA Group has also copied the letter to the Secretary of the UPFA Susil Premajayanth and SLFP General Secretary Maithripala Sirisena.

Salley told The Island that he challenged anyone in the UPFA Group to prove the wild allegations made against him, and if they were unable to do so, they should resign.

Salley said that he too had many allegations against some of them, which he could prove.

He was prepared to defend himself at any inquiry as he had no skeletons in his cupboard, unlike those who were making those allegations against him, Salley the former Deputy Mayor under the UNP said.

Salley said that he would be meeting President Rajapaksa during the course of this week to inform him about the reasons about his intended resignation from the CMC. He would place the facts before President Rajapaksa.

UPFA General Secretary Susil Premajayantha said that so far they had not received any letter from the UPFA group in the CMC. Once they received the letter they would inquire into the matters raised by it.





Anti-Syrian regime protesters

January 25, 2012, 8:02 pm

The Island World View of January 20th 2012 in page 4 carries a picture with the caption "In this Tuesday Jan 17, 2012 photo anti-Syrian regime protesters chant slogans and flash the victory sign as they march during a demonstration at the mountain resort town of Zabadani, Syria .....from(AP)

Looking at it closely, I find the so-called protesters are a handful of kids, may be between the age of 6-12, with some adult onlookers at the rear. Neither the kids nor the adults seem to show any visible sign of protest. They seem to be just posing for a photograph!





