The decision to resume Etihad flights to Colombo, which was temporarily suspended in September 2007, was not based exclusively on the enhanced potential which Sri Lanka offers due to developments in a post conflict environment rather as the strengthening of its vibrant growing network, said Vice-President, sales, Etihad airways, Adrian Parkes.

The Island Financial Review in an exclusive interview with Parkes discussed the strategic decision which resulted in Etihad airways resuming its flights to Colombo with effect from January 1.

Etihad will operate four a 320 flights between Colombo and Abu Dhabi every week. The new network of Etihad, the national airline of Abu Dhabi has now reached 57 destinations covering North American, European, China, United Kingdom, Australia, Russia, Asia, and African destinations among others.

At last years Paris air show Etihad airways made the biggest headlines with an engine deal valued at US$ 14 million, the largest engine order in commercial aviation history, to date.

Despite an International Air Transport Association (IATA) financial forecast of a global loss of US$ 9 billion, the Middle East region is the only sector with demand growth in 2009 (+1.2 per cent). However this will be over shadowed by a 3.8 per cent increase in capacity.

The first half of 2009 was a success for Etihad with an increase of eight per cent in the number of passengers carried up from 2.78 million in 2008 to 3.1 million in H1 of 2009.

Etihad also enjoyed its busiest month in July 2009 with 616,000 passengers, while the highlight of the mouth was Friday July 31, with a record of 21,640 passengers, a load factor of 90.3 per cent, the busiest day in the five year history of the airline. July 2009 also produced a 20 per cent increase with 900 weekly flights with an average load factor of 82 per cent.

The re-entry of Etihad airways which will code-share with Sri Lankan airlines also supports development of passenger and cargo potential due to the Etihad network covering codeshare agreements with American airlines as well as the new code share agreements signed with Ukraine International Airlines. Turkish airlines and Cyprus airways, Parkes addres.

The Colombo operation which will be overlooked by airline veteran Kumar De Silva will no doubt enhance growth potential in passenger and Cargo between Colombo and the world.





