The escalation of prices of fertilizer and fuel and the increased labour costs together with the lower tea output had a negative effect on the cost of production which grew significantly during the year. However, tea prices in the Colombo Auctions too increased by a considerable quantum negating the effect to a certain extent.

During the third quarter the quantity sold at the Colombo Auctions increased marginally by 1 million kilogram, but the average tea prices shot up to Rs. 286.89 per kilogram by Rs. 87.12 per kilogram or by 44% as compared to the previous year.

Colombo conducted 13 sales during the third quarter and the prices in 2007 were always above those in 2006 in all three elevations.

In high grown plantations, the sale on sale price differences per unit kilogram ranged from Rs. 19 to around Rs. 55 and on average high grown prices were Rs. 32 above the previous year. Medium grown plantations too had a better response with the prices above those of last year between Rs. 57 to Rs. 87 with an average of Rs. 71 above the previous year.

Low grown plantations performed best as usual with the sale on sale prices on average Rs. 112 above the previous year. In some sales it fetched around Rs. 144 above the prices of the previous year. The average tea sales price at the Colombo Auctions was Rs. 285.04 as against Rs. 197.20 per kilogram in the corresponding period in 2006. Thus the unit sales prices in 2007 was on average RS. 87 above those of 2006.

Quantities of teas sold by various disposal methods depicted a similar pattern in 2007 also, but obviously with increased prices.

As result of dominance in tea production, Ratnapura and Galle recorded the highest quantities sold at the tea auctions, too, whilst Koslanda/Haldumulla and Kotmale recorded the lowest sales quantities. As far as tea prices are concerned Koslanda/ Haldumumulla, Matara, Morawake and Deniyaya recorded an average of over Rs. 300 per kilogram during the third quarter 2007. Consequently, green leaf producers received on average around Rs. 50 per kilogram during the period under review. In addition to the black teas, Bio black and Bio green teas too fetched at very high prices except Bio Dust.

Tea exports

The salient feature of the Sri Lanka tea exports in 2007 was the decrease in month on month exports volume as against the previous year. This was mainly due to the less marketable surplus available due to low tea production levels as against last year. The only consolation is the healthy average exports unit price of tea, which ultimately contributed to the increased revenue.

During the third quarter 2007, exported volume of tea including re-exports of imported teas blended with Ceylon teas increased marginally by 1. 1% whilst the average unit exports price increased by Rs. 96 per kilogram. Consequently, the foreign exchange earnings of Rs. 32.3 billions collected during the third quarter was 26.6% more than those collected in the third quarter 2006.

During the first nine months of 2007, quantity exported decreased significantly but the unit FOB price and the revenue to the country from tea increased dramatically.

One important fact is that although the exports of Ceylon Tea decreased, exports of imported teas blended with local tea increased. This may be due to the scarcity of Ceylon Teas a result of low production of tea.

Value added tea exports

During the third quarter 37.4 million kilograms of teas were exported as value added teas, which consist of tea packets, tea bags or instant teas. This amounts to 43% of the total tea exports. This is an improvement when we compare this with the performance of value added tea sector last year, recording an exports volume of 33 million kilograms which amounted to 38% of the total tea exports.

Russia still leads the list of main destinations of Ceylon Teas with an exported figure of 36.1 million kilograms.

This however is a significant drop of 17.2% as against the previous year. Libya shows an improvement of 174%, whilst Iran recorded an increase of 24% as against the previous year.

Global Tea Scene

Tea production

Global tea production rose by 3.4% during the first three quarters of 2007. Main contributor to this increased production is Kenya, which recorded an increase of 63.4 Mkgs or 30.3%. Others which recorded increased tea production are Bangladesh (12.4%), Indonesia (13.6%) and Malawi (6%). India and Sri Lanka are the main producing countries which recorded drops during the period under review.

Sri Lankan tea production has yet to recover from the setback due to bad weather and work disruptions in the recent past. Kenya is experiencing good weather conditions for tea production and has estimated a crop figure of 350 Mkgs during 2007. Indian tea production decreased mainly due to the drop in North Indian tea crop which was hit by heavy rains especially in West Bengal

Performance of global tea auctions centres

The average global price for tea during the third quarter increased to healthy position of US$ 1.96/Kg. Colombo average sales price was very much higher than the global average price throughout the year.

Kolkata price too was found to be above the global price since April, but all other auctions were below the average.

Kenya

As at August 2007, Kenya is heading the list of main tea exporting countries of the world and China too has emerged ahead of Sri Lanka pushing it into third position.

It is evident that the increased global demand and the deficit increased in the production in India and Sri Lanka were compensated by the increased production in Kenya and China.

Outlook for fourth quarter 2007

Based on the data pertaining to the first nine months of the year several estimates for tea production, tea exports and sales are prepared. The deficit recorded in the tea production since the beginning of the year cannot be erased during the rest of the year. During the fourth quarter the estimated production would be around 75.7 Mkgs and Sri Lanka may therefore harvest around 295 Mkgs in 2007.

Average monthly tea prices are expected to increase and will prevail over Rs. 300/Kg.

Even though the marketable surplus is less as a result of decline in production, exporters naturally do not want to affect their normal export commitments. Therefore, it is expected that more of exports of imported tea from other origins will take place during the fourth quarter. This is evident from the fact that export of imported teas has already increased. In view of this we may expect the total imports to be around 280 Mkgs worth of Rs. 110 billions.

Sri Lanka Tea Board organized the official participation of the tea trade first time at the above exhibition sponsoring four tea companies- Ceylon Fresh Tea (Pvt) Ltd, Stassen Exports Ltd, Sunshine Tea (Pvt) Ltd and Eswaran Brothers Exports (Pvt) Ltd. A liquid tea service and a tasting session were carried out by the above mentioned companies throughout the exhibition.

Under the Government's Mahinda Chinthana programme to develop the Estate sector and uplift the living conditions of plantation workers a sum of US$ 20 million would be utilized to develop 2,000 kilometres of estate roads before the end of 2009.

The programme will be conducted by the Plantation Industries Ministry and 60 per cent of the total capital outlay will be covered by an ADB and a Japan Bank for International loan while the balance will be funded by the Government.

The identification of roads coming under the programme would be handled jointly by the plantation companies and state institutions and supervision would be done by the Road Development Authority.

The RDA would also create awareness among estate managements about the rehabilitation work and handle the estimates and quantity surveys and also assist the contract process where necessary. Payments for work completed would also be made on the recommendations of the RDA. Under this programme it is hoped to rehabilitate 750 kilometers of estate roads in 11 districts this year.

The programme will start off from Udapola Group, Deraniyagala belonging to the Bogawantalawa Lalan Rubber Plantation Company. The release said rehabilitation of estate roads would also help reduce crop damage in harvest technology from 40 to 10 per cent.

Business leader calls for a good policy framework for tea

The 33rd Annual General Meeting of the Federation of Chambers of Commerce and Industry of Sri Lanka (FCCISL) saw a business leader advocating a good policy framework for the major export crop - tea - to help stabilize the tea industry and avoid challenges in the international market. "The establishment of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Tariff has been able to bring about a high degree of stability in the international prices regime of tea, rubber and coconut," said Nawaz Rajabdeen, the incumbent President who was re-elected the President for 2007/2008, for a third consecutive year..

He said that despite the setbacks created by the energy costs, the performances in the business sector, specially the service and industrial sectors, have been a source of encouragement to the entire country.

He stressed the importance of monitoring of Free Trade Agreements (FTAs) with India and Pakistan. "India presents a glowing picture of growth, but Sri Lanka needs to look at it closely in terms of exports so as to examine the reciprocity which should be one of the main features of an FTA," he said.

Speaking on the economy of the country, Rajabdeen said that when examining the macro factors, Sri Lanka's ability to sustain development stands out. "The growth rate of 7.4 percent and per capita income of US$ 1,350 and also the decline in unemployment rate to 6.5 percent speak volumes for the basic strength of Sri Lanka's economy," he said, adding, however, that there are quite a number of external factors that once again seriously affected the economy and negated the positive gains achieved.

He said the rise in petroleum prices to nearly US$ 80 per barrel is a major concern and also impacted adversely on a host of economic factors domestically with a heavy blow to the cost of living.

He felt that both the Government and the Opposition must form a strong alliance with the private sector by shedding petty political agendas and move forward with a collective effort as the country is going through difficult economic and business times.





