WILL discussions and decisions on global issues like the economic crisis and climate change be made in a democratic way or through small groups of countries, which traditionally have been dominated by rich nations? This question on "global governance" has been debated for years. But 2010 will be a crucial year in defining the answers.

After the Second World War, the United Nations emerged as the premier organisation for addressing issues including peace and security, development, finance, trade, health, food and the environment.

Within the UN system, security was an exception, with an undemocratic Security Council in which five major powers have permanent membership and veto rights. With the veto power, a single country can reject actions agreed to by all others.

There has been a tussle in the division of powers between the UN General Assembly, where all UN member states are grouped and where decisions are taken according to the majority but which has little implementing power, and the Security Council which is an exclusive group but has the power to impose sanctions and authorise military action.

Starting from the 1980s, however, the authority of the UN over economic issues declined as developed countries led a move to "reform" the UN by downgrading its functions, while tremendously upgrading the authority of the IMF and World Bank.

These institutions used their leverage to impose unpopular policies on a large number of indebted countries. They replaced the UN as the main global economic actors.

Meanwhile, the major developed countries formed their own institutions, especially the OECD think-tank and then the Group of 7 whose annual meetings became the focus of decision-making. The G7, which later became the G8 when Russia was included, became the most powerful economic bloc.

When the world financial crisis erupted in 2008, President George Bush of the United States convened the G20 with a first meeting in Washington. More G20 Summits have been held, in London and Pittsburgh in 2009, and they made decisions on issues related to the global economic crisis.

Big developing countries including China, India, Brazil, Indonesia, South Africa, are included in the G20, and there was speculation after the Pittsburgh meeting that the G20 would replace the G7 and evolve into the forum where the "major" countries – developed and developing – would discuss and decide on issues starting with finance. This, however, has not gone down well with developing countries, since they are not in the G20, and neither has the mandate of the G20 been agreed to by all countries.

The UN General Assembly Presi-dent Miguel Descoto of Nicaragua took the initiative to convene a UN Conference on the Financial and Economic Crisis in June 2009, with the aim of getting what he called the G192 (since the UN has 192 member states) involved.

Many developing countries argued that the G20 does not have the legitimacy and that only the UN with its universal membership can be a democratic forum.

Ideas were proposed to form a Global Economic Council inside the UN, that include a group of countries appointed by the UN membership representing various regions.

Such a council can best discuss and decide on issues where developing countries' interests are represented, and would have the legitimacy that the G20 lacks.

This year, the working group tasked with following up on the UN's economic conference will have the opportunity to discuss not only economic issues but a strengthened role for the UN and the possibility of an economic council.

In climate change, the venue for international action has been the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, which has over 190 member states. It was the UNFCCC that organised the 2007 Bali conference and the 2009 Copenhagen conference.

President Bush, who was not fond of the UNFCCC although the US is a member, organised his own process, the Major Economies Forum or MEF, which only included 15 to 20 countries with the most emissions.

The developing countries (including many of those in the MEF) have been unhappy that the MEF constitutes an alternative to the UNFCCC, and have constantly asserted that the UNFCCC is the sole legitimate forum on climate change.

With the messy conclusion of the Copenhagen conference, when a document arising from a meeting convened of political leaders of 26 countries was not adopted by the plenary, some developed countries are now considering shifting negotiations away from the UN and into smaller groups like the G20.

On Jan 8, a meeting of leading European Union officials (including the new EU President, the European Commission chief) reportedly discussed a new strategy, including pursuing a climate deal through the G-20, rather than the UN.

This report indicates that the developed countries are tempted to move away from the democratic UNFCCC into an exclusive group which is easier for the developed countries to influence because they have a disproportionate ratio of the members of this small group and also shape the agenda.

Moving from the UNFCCC into a small exclusive group would be a major setback for the UN and for multilateralism. It is also counter-productive because climate change is a global problem that requires the cooperative actions of all countries.





