A nation's history is embellished by the names of its illustrious sons and daughters – its ingenious inventors, chivalrous discoverers, statesmen, painters, scholars, entrepreneurs, patriots, artistes, sportsmen and the whole gamut of professionals.. The latest addition to this impressive galaxy is none other than Muttaiah Muralitharan, the spin-wizard or just 'Murali', as he is popularly called, who has made Mother Lanka proud by breaking the world-record for the number of wickets, previously held by the flamboyant Shane Warne of Australia. By any standard, Murali's record is a remarkable achievement indeed!

It is said, "Success must go to your heart and not to your head." Murali accepted his enormous success with a spirit of true sportsmanship. Simple, modest and unassuming, with his ever green and contagious smile, Murali's photos and pictures, most particularly the giant posters of his charming family have been adorning the picturesque landscape of Sri Lanka; the tabloids, dailies and weeklies the world over. There is magic in his smile that evinces the noble character Murali possesses. His personality trait would be the envy of so many future cricketing aspirants, who would like to emulate his exemplary and impeccable professional career.

Humility, the exalted virtue.

One of the virtues that would propel any man or woman to heights of glory and grandeur, is humility which is based on sacrifice and self-denial. Humility is the hallmark of eminent personalities who shot into prominence and reached the pinnacle of their profession by sheer honest and hard work. There is no substitute for that. Forbearance and tolerance are sine qua non in this pivotal matter. Time and again I have read this jewel of a sentence in our dailies, "Be humble in victory, but determined in defeat." Perhaps this adage would have stirred Murali to reach significant milestones in his cricketing career. On a number of occasions Murali was humiliated, jeered and booed by boorish and un-sportive partisan spectators; denigrated and willfully challenged, adding insult to injury, which made Murali to skip a couple of overseas tours. But with profound humility and indomitable courage Murali swallowed those bitter pills. Submitting himself voluntarily to various complicated tests and correctional measures to meet the requirements of the ICC that he did not breach the 15 – degree flexion rule while attempting his 'doosra', he came forth triumphant; a legend in his own life time!

Unblemished character.

The sterling quality of integrity places a person far above all the others, in any field of activity. It augments a person's character and class. Murali, apart from breaking world records, is a cricketer of distinction, a lovable companion and an indispensable team-mate. His winsome and infectious smile disarms any adversary. With poise and dignity Murali has been successfully handling all types of crisis, controversies, dubious aspirations cast on him and adverse comments about his avowedly awkward but natural bowling action. Of course gold has to necessarily go through a frightful fiery furnace before it emerges purified and brilliant.

Murali, the philanthropist.

Unnoticed, for many years Murali has been doing great charitable work. In December 2004, when the monstrous Tsunami ravaged and engulfed some coastal areas of Sri Lanka , Murali with his friend Shane Warne, rallied round the lucky survivors and the most affected people helping them financially to tide over their urgent and immediate needs. Seeing Shane Warne and Murali in action, coming forward generously to offer their services, was really heart-warming. Such selfless humanitarian ventures need our admiration and praise!

The family dimension

As I mentioned earlier, the fascinating portraits of his loving family that are displayed at every nook and corner of the city and its environs, speak volumes of his well-balanced personality. Name, fame and fortune have not made him proud and ambitious, on the contrary, they have helped him to be mature, responsible and bring up an exceptionally happy family. That is his inalienable and ever-present moral support. The members of his family are his most ardent fans and intimate friends and Murali was thrilled that he broke the world-record in their encouraging and appreciative presence. How delighted they must have been!

Generally he is unruffled by certain umpires' cock-eyed attitudes and erroneous decisions or sloppy fielding of slovenly players. Occasionally he fumes and frets, but his magnanimity and graciousness come to the fore and the whole nasty episode vanishes into thin air. At the end of it all, he can go back to his adorable family to seek solace and consolation. It is true, "A happy home, is an earlier heaven!"

Murali, the Maestro!

Loyal to his Alma Mater, St. Anthony's College, Kandy, and staunchly faithful to his loving family and friends, Murali has become the cynosure of all eyes because of his bowling prowess. 61 times he has taken five or more wickets in an innings. That's incredible! He went on a tour of England with the Sri Lanka 'A' team in 1991 and made his Test debut against Australia in Colombo in 1992. He was a part of the Sri Lankan Cricket Team that won the prestigious World Cup in 1996 under the dashing captain Arjuna Ranatunge. In 1997 he claimed his 100th Test wicket. In 1998 Murali took the first ten wicket haul – 12 for 117 - against Zimbabwe in the first Test in Kandy. In the same year he took 9 for 65 in the second innings of one – off Test against England at the Oval in August, which enabled Sri Lanka post its first Test victory in England. His match figures – 16 for 220 – still stand as the best by a Sri Lankan. In 2006, playing his 101st Test, he claimed his 600th wicket. In 2007 in his 113th Test he took his 700th wicket and in the same year on 3rd December he bowled Paul Collingwood, an accomplished batsman from England, to break ShaneWarne's world record.





