The Island-FeaturesResearchers hope that the breakthrough could one day lead to new treatments for the devastating neurological condition.

They believe that the gene could be connected to how the brain uses vitamin D, a lack of which has been linked to memory problems.

Scientists have previously found that the onset of the devastating condition was linked to the apolipoprotein E gene.

However, this is a "weak" gene, whose influence would not be enough to cause the illness.

The study looked at the genes of 492 patients who suffered from Alzheimer's disease and compared these to genes from 498 people who did not have the condition.

The analysis was detailed enough to identify single variants within DNA cells which are more common in patients with Alzheimer's.

The variation is close to the gene which uses vitamin D in the brain and has previously been linked to memory, the findings, published in the American Journal of Human Genetics, show.

"It is possible that (this variation) is in a region that may play some sort of regulatory role (with vitamin D)," said Dr Jonathan Haines, co-director of the project at Vanderbilt University in Nashville, Tennessee.

Only a few foods contain vitamin D, including milk and cereals, although it can be produced naturally in the body though a chemical process involving sunlight.

However, as we age the body's ability to produce the vitamin declines, meaning that older people can be more likely to suffer from a deficiency.

More than 400,000 people in Britain suffer from Alzheimer's, the most common form of dementia.

Campaigners are calling for more money to be invested in research into the condition, for which there is no known cure and few treatments which can slow its progression.

Neil Hunt, the chief executive of the Alzheimer's Society, said: "We are still learning what causes Alzheimer's disease, but it is most likely that a combination of factors is responsible.

"Genetic inheritance plays a part, but the biggest risk factor is age.

"If your parent has dementia your own chances of developing it are only a little higher than if there were no cases in the family at all."



