We write with reference to the article/item that appeared on page 15 of 'The Island' English language newspaper of 12th January 2010, titled 'Working towards prosperity in rugby', which appears to have been written by you (Ravi Nagahawatta). We therefore, assume that you are the journalist responsible for the contents of this news article/item.

We write this letter in our capacities as the President, Vice President, Treasurer, and Committee Member of the General Committee of the 'Sri Lanka Society of Rugby Football Referees', which was purportedly suspended by the present Interim Committee of the Sri Lanka Rugby Football Union (SLRFU), headed by Dr. Maiya Gunasekera, with effect from 06/08/2009. Although, the suspension of the General Committee of the society was clearly wrongful and was made with the ulterior motive of suppressing the society's attempts to take necessary action to recover the outstanding payments due to its members as reimbursements for out-of-pocket expenses, when officiating at matches on behalf of the SLRFU, our present concern is in respect of a particular portion of the contents of your said article, which reads thus:

He said that one of the best things that had happened to rugby during the reign of the interim committee is bringing order to how the referees' society functioned. He stated that the referees were charging exorbitant amounts as their fee, which couldn't be allowed because the fee they charged didn't conform to the Sports Law of the country. If the referees' society wants to charge professional fees for their services, then they must pay taxes like all other income earners in this country." he opined.

It appears that the foregoing portion of the article under reference has been quoted from an interview/discussion, you seem to have had with Dr. Maiya Gunasekera, the Chairman of the present Interim Committee of the Sri Lanka Rugby Football Union (SLRFU), and the reference made by him therein to the 'referees' society' is obviously a reference to the Sri Lanka Society of Rugby Football Referees.

We find the contents of the foregoing portion of your said article to be offensive to and derogatory of the Sri Lanka Society of Rugby Football Referees and its members and it also demeans the services of its members, their status and importance amongst the rugby fraternity of this country. We hereby categorically deny the allegations made therein against the society and wish to lodge our vehement protest against the publication of the said personal views of Dr. Maiya Gunasekera with regard to the Sri Lanka Society of Rugby Football Referees in 'The Island' newspaper, as the said views are motivated by bad faith on the part of Dr. Maiya Gunasekera and are in any event untrue and/or distorted.

Dr. Maiya Gunasekera and his present Interim Committee's idea of bringing 'order' to the Sri Lanka Society of Rugby Football Referees' was to arbitrarily suspend the General Committee of the said society indefinitely with effect from 06/08/2009, without affording them any prior hearing or warning, merely because the said society had requested that outstanding monies due to it from the SLRFU for officiating at various rugby tournaments and matches (over 400 in number), conducted under the auspices of the SLRFU, be paid it to it by the SLRFU without any further delay. As a result of the wrongful and unlawful suspension of our society at the behest of Dr. Maiya Gunasekera (Chairman of the SLRFU Interim Committee) and Mr. Kiran Attapattu (Secretary of the Interim Committee), the Referees' Society has had no Committee to run its day-to-day affairs since August 2009 (over 5 months now) and the functions of the said society have come to a complete standstill. Although insincere promises have been made to hold a Special General Meeting to appoint a Committee for the Referee's Society, up to date, no steps or measures whatsoever, have been taken by the present interim committee in this regard and as a result of the SLRFU's arbitrary conduct, the functions of the Referee's Society have essentially been crippled, which has resulted in grave prejudice being caused to the game of rugby and also to the members of the society.

We are of the opinion that Dr. Maiya Gunasekera's Interim Committee has been the most arbitrary, incompetent, inefficient, mismanaged and disastrous Interim Committee that we have had to deal with in the recent past. Almost every sphere of rugby is now in disarray due to the lack of professionalism, independence and proper administration of the apex body of rugby in Sri Lanka, which is headed by Dr. Maiya Gunasekera, who should therefore, be held responsible for the abysmal depth to which rugby in our country has plummeted today. Instances of the present Interim Committee's inability to manage the affairs of the SLRFU have been constantly highlighted by the media itself. Furthermore, under the SLRFU's present Interim Committee's administration, the SLRFU is now faced with the threat of losing IRB status and the Sri Lankan National team's ranking has fallen to number 53 (World ranking) and to number 8 (Asian ranking) in the 15-a-side game and number 10 amongst ther sevens teams in Asia.

We categorically deny the allegations made by Dr. Maiya Gunasekera in the article under reference and state that the refereeing charges levied by the society were neither, exorbitant nor contrary to the Sports Law. We challenge Dr. Maiya Gunasekera to prove/justify the statement(s) he has made to this effect, as quoted by you.

After obtaining the services of referees to officiate at major competitive rugby matches and tournaments on previously agreed terms/rates, the withholding of payments justly due to the society is a very low achievement of Dr. Maiya Gunasekera's Interim Committee, which no reasonable and honest person could conceivably be proud of. In fact, the previous councils of the SLRFU discussed the issue of payments to referees at length and agreed that referees needed to be compensated/reimbursed adequately for their services and a consensus was reached accordingly.

We wish to place on record that, as at 23/07/2009, the Interim Committee of the SLRFU owed the Sri Lanka Society of Rugby Football Referees a total sum of Rs.1,950,000.00 (Rs. 1.95 million), for officiating at various matches and tournaments organized by the SLRFU. This sum was due and owing to the society from the Interim Committee from May 2009 to July 2009. Subsequently, part payments have been made to individual referees in December 2009 by the Interim Committee. The SLRFU Interim Committee has arbitrarily, unilaterally, wrongfully and unlawfully claimed that the said sum is the full and final payment due to the referees, in complete breach of the understanding upon which the services of the members of our society were engaged, without any discussion, prior notice or recourse to our society or its members. Accordingly, there are still payments due and owing to our society from the SLRFU, which remain outstanding up to date. This failure of the present Interim Committee of the SLRFU to honour its payment obligations has caused severe prejudice and grave hardship to the members of the Sri Lanka Society of Rugby Football Referees. We see the failure or refusal to release the out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the match officials as wrongful and unlawful actions on the part of the present Interim Committee of the SLRFU.

Furthermore, it also appears from your article under reference that Dr. Maiya Gunasekera has confused his role and functions as Chairman of the Interim Committee of the SLRFU with those of the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue. Although he has ventured to profess his knowledge or the lack thereof with regard to matters of income tax, the payment of taxes (if any), on payments received by our society is the responsibility of the Referees' Society and not that of Dr. Gunasekera and his Interim Committee and therefore, it is a matter that is solely between the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue and the Referee's Society and is none of Dr. Gunasekera's solicitous concern. Dr. Gunasekera's sudden and undue concern for the collection of taxes from only the Sri Lanka Society of Rugby Football Referees is therefore, rather mysterious, especially at a time when his Interim Committee has reneged on its aforesaid payment obligations to the Referee's Society.

In the foregoing circumstances, we hereby request you to act fairly and cause this letter to be published in the 'Sports' page of 'The Island' newspaper within a week from the receipt of this letter, as a response to the aforesaid unfair and palpably false allegations/comments made by Dr. Maiya Gunasekera about the Sri Lanka Society of Rugby Football Referees and its members and to thereby ensure that our side of the story is also properly conveyed to the readers/public.

Signed by: Dilroy Fernando, President

Nizam Jamaldeen, Vice President

Mahinda Jayawardena, Vice President

Lakdasa Colombage, Treasurer

Vimal Perera, Committee Member

Gamini Indrasena, Committee Member

(All officer bearers of the General Committee of the Sri Lanka Society of Rugby Football Referees, prior to its purported suspension on 06/08/2009)





