MAY 21: Manchester United win the European Champions League after a dramatic penalty shoot-out against Chelsea. United keeper Edwin van der Sar is the hero after saving Nicolas Anelka's shot.

JUNE 7: Peter de Villiers starts his reign as the first black Springbok coach with a 43-7 win in Bloemfontein over Wales.

JUNE 15: Russians dominate the Comrades marathon, with Leonard Shvetsov winning the men's race in a record time of 5:24.46. In the women's race, the first five places are taken by Russians.

JUNE 16: Tiger Woods, only two months after a knee injury, wins the US Open at Torrey Pines after an 18-hole play-off againsts Rocco Mediate. Two days later he announces he will undergo surgery and miss the rest of the season.

JULY 12: Dunedin's House of Pain loses its aura as the Springboks, inspired by Ricky Januarie's try of the year, beat the All Blacks 30-28. It is the Bok's first win in New Zealand since 1998.

JULY 27: Spain's Carlos Sastre wins his maiden Tour de France. He became the eighth Spaniard to win the race's yellow jersey and the third consecutively after Oscar Pereiro (2006) and Alberto Contador (2007).

AUGUST 2: Graeme Smith (154 not out) plays one of the greatest Test innings as South Africa beat England by five wickets in the third Test to take a 2-0 lead. The win secures the Proteas' first Test series win in England for 43 years.

AUGUST 16: In a remarkable race, Usian Bolt wins the 100m at the Olymics in 9.69sec, a world record.

The Springboks, distracted by political interference related to Percy Montgomery's 100th Test, lose 19-0 to the All Blacks. It is the first time in 105 years that they are scoreless at home.

AUGUST 17: Michael Phelps becomes the greatest Olympian after winning eight golds in the pool.

AUGUST 18: Khotso Mokoena saves South Africa by winning our only medal at the Beijing Olympics, a silver in the long jump. He celebrates by paying Colonel Sanders a visit.

AUGUST 20: Natalie du Toit finishes 16th in the 10km open-water swim at Beijing, a remarkable achievement for a disabled athlete competing against abled-bodies swimmers.

AUGUST 30: Ellis Park once again weaves its magic, with the Boks thrashing the Wallabies by a record margin of 53-8. Jongi Nokwe scores four tries.

Saru investigates a racist incident involving a black woman.

SEPTEMBER 14: Natalie du Toit wins her fifth gold medal at the Paralympics with a victory in the 50m freestyle.

Sebastian Vettel, 21, becomes the youngest man to win an F1 race.

SEPTEMBER 17: Shaming the Olympic team, the Paralympians win 30 medals, 21 of them gold.

SEPTEMBER 21: The US beat Europe in the Ryder Cup, at Valhalla, in Kentucky. It's their first win since 1999.

OCTOBER 11: Vitali Klitschko wins the WBC heavyweight title, beating Samuel Peter, of Nigeria, on a TKO in Berlin.

OCTOBER 12: Charl Schwartzel wins the Madrid Masters.

Luke "Puke" Watson is quoted as saying he wanted to vomit on his Bok jersey when he was capped in 2007.

OCTOBER 26: The Sharks' choker tag is finally abolished as they beat the Blue Bulls 14-9 in the Currie Cup final in Durban.

NOVEMBER 2: In a dramatic race, Lewis Hamilton becomes the youngest F1 champion in history after overtaking Timo Glock on the final lap to finish fifth. It's enough to sew up the title ahead of Felipe Massa, who won the race on his home track at Sao Paulo.

NOVEMBER 10: India conclude a 2-0 Test series win over Ricky Ponting's Australians, the world's No 1 cricket team.

Isaac Hlatshwayo wins his IBF welterweight eliminator against Dominican Republic's Delvin Rodriguez on a split decision, which is farcically reversed to a draw due to a scorecard error.

NOVEMBER 19: Bafana save the best for last as they beat Cameroon 3-2 in a friendly in Rustenburg. Bernard Parker announces himself as the ultimate supersub.

NOVEMBER 22: The Boks demolish England 42-6 at Twickenham. It is England's worst defeat at home. They finish unbeaten on their tour.

DECEMBER 6: The Springboks win their first home and successive sevens title by beating New Zealand 12-7.

Manny Pacquiao defeats 10-times world champion Oscar de la Hoya. It was De la Hoya's first fight as a welterweight.

DECEMBER 13: Vladimir Klitschko beats Hashim Rahman in defence of his heavyweight world title. He stopped former champion Rahman in the seventh round.

DECEMBER 14: South Africa's Tim Clark wins the Australian Open golf title in a sudden-death play-off at Royal Sydney. He becomes the third South African to win the title after Gary Player and Bobby Locke.





