WASHINGTON (AP) - Barack Obama became the 44th U.S. President Tuesday, shattering American racial barriers as the first black leader of the nation he promised to free from the grip of its profound economic troubles and steer away from wars in two distant lands.

The 47-year-old Obama assumed power over a country longing for change after former President George W. Bush's eight divisive years in the White House, an era that witnessed the Sept. 11, 2001 terror attacks, the beginning of wars in Afghanistan and Iraq and an economic collapse not seen since the 1930s Great Depression.

"Today I say to you that the challenges we face are real. They are serious and they are many. They will not be met easily or in a short span of time. But know this, America - they will be met," Obama said in his first address to the nation as its new leader. Speaking to a massive crowd that spread across the massive National Mall from the Capitol toward the Lincoln Memorial, Obama recalled the words of George Washington, America's first president, enjoining Americans against faint-heartedness "in this winter of our hardship." "With hope and virtue, let us brave once more the icy currents, and endure what storms may come," the new president said in his 18 1/2-minute inaugural address.

"Let it be said by our children's children that when we were tested we refused to let this journey end, that we did not turn back nor did we falter; and with eyes fixed on the horizon and God's grace upon us, we carried forth that great gift of freedom and delivered it safely to future generations." Obama promised the world a new America that listens to all voices. But he vowed to spare nothing to keep America safe, addressing terrorist foes directly. "We will not apologize for our way of life, nor will we waver in its defense, and for those who seek to advance their aims by inducing terror and slaughtering innocents, we say to you now that our spirit is stronger and cannot be broken; you cannot outlast us, and we will defeat you."

And to the larger Muslim world, he vowed to "seek a new way forward, based on mutual interest and mutual respect. To those leaders around the globe who seek to sow conflict, or blame their society's ills on the West - know that your people will judge you on what you can build, not what you destroy. "To those who cling to power through corruption and deceit and the silencing of dissent, know that you are on the wrong side of history; but that we will extend a hand if you are willing to unclench your fist." Acknowledging the historic nature of his inauguration as leader of a nation with a deeply troubled racial past, Obama said:

"This is the meaning of our liberty and our creed - why men and women and children of every race and every faith can join in celebration across this magnificent mall, and why a man whose father less than sixty years ago might not have been served at a local restaurant can now stanuge crowd. World history teacher Calvin Adams of Arlington, Virginia, said he got up extra early so he could witness history being made firsthand and teach it to his classes.

"Eventually I'll teach American history," said Adams, 23. "I'll say, 'This is how it works because I've been there, I've seen it."' The nation's 56th inauguration day began for Obama and his vice presidential pick Joe Biden with a traditional morning worship service at St. John's Episcopal Church, across Lafayette Park from the White House. Obama and his wife, Michelle, waved to bystanders, then entered the church to applause from about 200 people. The Rev. Luis Leon welcomed the new first couple and said every president since James Madison, the country's fourth, has worshipped at the church at least once, "some of them kicking and screaming." After the 45-minute service, the Obamas were welcomed to the White House for coffee. Bush and first lady Laura Bush greeted them at the North Portico, according to custom. Michelle Obama handed Laura Bush a square white box wrapped with a red ribbon. More than 10,000 people from all 50 states - including bands and military units - were assembled to follow Obama and Biden from the Capitol along the 1.5-mile (2.4-kilometer) inaugural parade route down Pennsylvania Ave., concluding at a bulletproof reviewing stand in front of the White House.





