The Island-NewsDefence Secretary Gotabhaya Rajapaksa yesterday said that the army had cut off Kilinochchi from three directions and was poised to overrun the town.

A confident Rajapaksa said that with Thursday's (Jan. 1) liberation of Paranthan and Iranamadu junction, the army had taken up positions north, west and south of Kilinochchi.

"Kilinochchi is vulnerable and their resistance will collapse in a few days," he said, expressing confidence of wiping out the remaining LTTE bases in the northern theatre of operations within months. Declining to discuss a possible time-frame for the army to complete major ground operations, he said the enemy couldn't last long due to the absence of fresh recruits and an uninterrupted sea supply route to replenish its arsenal.

Contrary to LTTE leader Velupillai Prabhakaran's recent claim that the liberation of Kilinochchi was a daydream of President Mahinda Rajapaksa, it would become a reality soon, he said.

Once the army regained the Paranthan-Kilinochchi-Iranamadu stretch on the A9, fighting formations would move against LTTE bases east of A9, he said. The disintegration of their fighting units would be swift, he said, urging LTTE cadres to surrender or face annihilation.

Responding to our queries, the war veteran said that Task Force I (TF I) and the 57 Division would take Kilinochchi, situated 4.5 kilometres south of Paranthan.

Paranthan junction connects Kilinochchi to the south, Pooneryn to the west, Mullaitivu to the east and Elephant Pass, the gateway to the Jaffna peninsula, to the north. Elephant Pass is just nine kilometres north of Paranthan.Shortly after TF I had secured Paranthan, the 57 Division overran LTTE positions at Iranamadu junction, six kilometres south of Kilinochchi.

Rajapaksa said that the 57 Division with four brigades at its command had waged a series of battles over the past few weeks to capture Iranamdu junction. The army had brought in heavy armour and artillery fire to neutralise the LTTE base at Iranamdu, he said.

TF I liberated Paranthan in the early hours of Thursday, after a series of battles with LTTE units which withdrew in the direction of Velikkandal, a village situated along the Paranthan-Mullaitivu road and Vaddakkachchi.

The army liberated Paranthan in September 1996, but the LTTE regained the town in September 1998.

The army estimated the number of LTTE cadres killed at Paranthan during its final assault launched on December 30, at 50 with the wounded numbering over 100.

Rajapaksa said that the army had repulsed LTTE attempts to evict the army from the newly captured area.

Speaking of the operations conducted by the 59 Division on the eastern flank, the former Gajaba officer said that the enemy had been caught up in almost a dozen fronts in the northern theatre of operations. The 59 Division comprising three Brigades was moving in three directions with one Brigade (593) pushing northwards, he said. The 591 Brigade was pushing towards the Mullaitivu town, while 592 were closing in on the Oddussudan-Pirappuvedeuvan-Puthukudiruppu road.

The Defence Secretary said that the LTTE had been forced to engage TF 1, TF II, TF III, TF IV and the 57 Division, simultaneously, and therefore wouldn't be able to concentrate its firepower on one front.

Prabhakaran and his supporters both here and abroad wouldn't have anticipated a multi-pronged offensive, he said. He commended the army for relentlessly pursuing operational targets since the launch of the Vanni campaign in the middle of 2007.

The Defence Secretary said that the Navy and SLAF played a critical role in the overall campaign against the LTTE spearheaded by the Army. "It was a team effort with services, police and intelligence services meeting the LTTE challenge head on," he said. Had they failed, the LTTE would have taken the upper hand, he said, urging the people not to be vigilant.



