Sri Lanka has a youth literacy rate of *95.6%, one of the highest in South Asia, yet a majority of the youth in the country are either unemployed or underpaid. On an average, graduates earn more than their counterparts who have not pursued tertiary education, and are likely to acquire better opportunities both in the private and state sectors. Realizing this need, the youth of today are eager then ever to pursue higher education and are in need of the right guidance and counseling, in order to gain better opportunities in life.

NDB Bank understanding this need of the youth today announced a partnership with EDEX Education fair 2009, becoming the event's 'Official Banker' for a second consecutive year. The bank with a cherished vision to be a world class Sri Lankan, believes in empowering Sri Lankan youth to be globally competitive through education and skills development.

"We believe a good education is a lifetime investment that offers our youth many diverse opportunities to achieve their ambitions" said NDB Bank's Vice President, Head Retail Banking and Marketing, Indrajit Wickremesinghe. "NDB bank will not only offer financial guidance and advice for youth on how to pursue higher education based on their individual income level, but will also advice them on career opportunities and how to select the right stream of education based on skills and interests."

NDB Bank will operate a stall at the education fair, to provide free financial advice and carrier guidance to anyone seeking assistance. Information about the bank's loans and financial schemes such as the "Dream Maker Education Loan', and 'Vishmitha Education Loan' will also be available. The schemes are specially designed to assist youth in their pursuit of higher education and are created to not only assist parents who wish to finance their children's development through better education, but also professionals and employed youth who aspire to further their educational dreams.

NDB bank also appreciates and fully supports EDEX's initiative to create awareness on sustainable living, green color employment, green food, green energy and green habits through the establishment of a Green Zone within the exhibition premises.

"We wholeheartedly believe that the 'Go Green' concept adopted by EDEX is timely and very appropriate, as sustainable living is not an option anymore but an absolute necessity" added Wickremesinghe.





