Kesbewa town with a small bus station is a very busy intersection of 4 roads.

The bus station can accommodate only 15 parking + 2 loading buses. The junction is thickly crowded with people and parked buses.

Almost at any time of the day, in addition to the buses parked in the bus stand, one could see about 10 buses parked near the bus stand on the Horana Road in a very haphazard way obstructing vehicular traffic and pedestrian movement. It is common to find 3 buses (2 on the left side and 1 on the right side) being parked abreast, just at the neck of the entrance to the bus stand. If a lorry comes, there is a traffic build up at the junction, but our concern is for the safety of the pedestrians, specially the children and the seniors.

Vehicles will pass on even in slow motion and there is no danger to their occupants. But our grouse is that this unlawful parking has caused tremendous hardships and accident risks to pedestrians as there not even a foot path for them to pass these parked buses.They have to get to the middle of the Horana road and take unnecessary risks in passing this point, as there is no pavement. People can not enter the shops for their daily needs also by this unlawful parking as shop entrances are obstructed by parked buses.

In comparison, Bandaragama road is about 40 feet wide, calm and quiet, with lesser traffic and shops. Sides of this road can be used for parking of buses, instead of keeping buses at the neck of the bus stand on the Horana Road.

Parking on Horana road should be abolished, as it is also a security risk to the Magistrate Courts on the Horana road, situated about 150 Meters from the junction.

Mostly at other main junctions we see signs as "no parking from 0600-1200 on this side of the road", but no signs at Kesbewa, and the drivers are a law unto themselves.

If Piliyandala Police takes the trouble to make Horana road a no-parking zone for buses and also arrange to mark lines on this road as well as on either side of the road, along with no parking signs, it will be a great service to the people of the area who come daily to the junction, for their marketing.





