After several years of research on rice-based products, the Food Technology Section of the Industrial Technology Institute (ITI) has been successful in developing technology for the manufacture of rice crackers. Two flavours, chicken and chocolate, have been formulated, Senior Research Officer of the ITI Damitha Rajapaksa said.

She said that the research was done at the request of a client and the technology has been transferred to the client, CIC Ltd.

"CIC displayed much interest in promoting the manufacture of new rice- based products in Sri Lanka, particularly after an ITI presentation on "Opportunities for rice-based products", and solicited the assistance of ITI for the purpose. After some deliberations, rice crackers were selected as the product they were interested in marketing, with savoury chicken and sweet chocolate as the preferred flavours. After several laboratory trials, our researchers were able to develop the product," Rajapaksa said.

Rice crackers are flat crispy snacks made with puffed rice grains attached to each other. Although seemingly straightforward, much research is required to produce a satisfactory product as crackers cannot be made with all varieties of rice. Trials carried out with different varieties revealed that varieties with low amylose content were necessary for the production of high quality rice crackers. Since the company has launched into the cultivation of special rice varieties, the supply of raw material posed no problem, she said.

Rajapakse said CIC did not have processing facilities and was not in a position to go into production immediately. The ITI was able to step in and forge the necessary link with a sub-contractor who had previously show interest in purchasing the technology from ITI.

"The pilot production of rice crackers was carried out at the sub-contractor's facility, under the supervision of the ITI scientists. A batch of sweet and savoury rice crackers has been manufactured and issued to the CIC for test market trials from their sales outlets. The CIC has launched the product on a trial basis to the market," Rajapaksa added.

CIC Ltd. is a company which has diversified their scope of business from paints to pharmaceuticals and chemicals. They have now ventured into agriculture, with an investment into the cultivation of special rice varieties for the local and export market.





