Two JVPers were arrested by the Dematagoda Police, while pasting posters against media suppression yesterday morning, to coincide with the date of the funeral of Sunday Leader Editor Lasantha Wickrematunge. The party is call ing on people to witness the level to which media freedom has deteriorated.

"Putting up a poster against media suppression and calling upon people to rally round us to protect democracy is no crime. It's our right. The Dematagoda Police arrested two of our activists around 6.00 a.m. and refused to release them after taking their statements as if they have committed a crime. They were neither released nor produced before courts," JVP Colombo District MP Sunil Handunetti told The Island.

He said the Government had stooped to the level of not even tolerating the pasting of posters calling that democracy and media freedom be upheld. "First the Police said that the posters were anti-government. Then I went to the police and explained the wordings in the posters. They said that no one had taken the responsibility for the posters. I pointed out to them that the party's name was at the bottom of the poster. Then they came out with the excuse that the imprint on the poster did not conform to the regulation", Handunnetti said.

The Party was in consultation its legal advisors to decide on action against police, he said. A protest had been called at short notice but had been postponed indefinitely following legal advice, party sources said.

MP Handunetti said: "The two members, Benildes and Sisira, have been detained illegally. The government was using the police against the rights of expression. A journalist had been slain and his funeral was scheduled for today. Amidst this the government unleashes the police on us to stop us putting up posters condemning acts against media freedom. Police say the arrest was made on orders from the top, but did not say whether the top meant political or departmental. We would certainly take this case before the Courts and people."

The Dematagoda police said the suspects, Benlides Silva and Chandrasena Hettiarchchi, were produced before Aluthkade Magistrate Courts on charges of offences against State under clauses 118 and 120 of the Penal Code.

Lawyer Sunil Watagala told The Island that the two party members were enlarged on personal bail and the case would be called again on January 16.





