The Island-SportsBrett Lee is hoping to be fit for the Ashes after an operation that removed bone fragments at the back of his left ankle.

The procedure, which is similar to the one Andrew Flintoff underwent a year ago, involves a lay-off of up to five months.

According to the Australian physio, Alex Kontouris, Lee's rehabilitation programme has been designed with the intention of getting him back for the World Twenty20 championships in the first week of June.

But the Ashes, which start on July 8, will be a far more appealing carrot for Lee, who has now played in the last four series against England.

Lee may have a moderate record in his 18 Ashes Tests - his average of 40 runs per wicket is 10 higher than his overall figure - but his experience would still be a vital asset for Australia's novice attack.

Of the five bowlers playing against South Africa in Sydney this week, Mitchell Johnson has 17 Test caps, while the other four - Peter Siddle, Doug Bollinger, Nathan Hauritz and Andrew McDonald - have played just six games between them. Contrast that with Lee's figures of 76 matches and 310 wickets and his importance to Australia is clear.

Lee may have been ineffective in the first two matches of the series, taking just one wicket for 249 runs, but he was carrying a number of fitness problems.

Apart from the bone fragments at the back of his left ankle, he was also suffering from a broken metatarsal at the front of the same foot, and needed a series of painkilling injections to bowl through the injury on the last day in Melbourne.

"I saw him take his shoe off after the game and it looked like a pin cushion from all the needles," said Lee's agent Neil Maxwell. "It was a gutsy effort."

While some pundits are already installing England as favourites for the Ashes series, in reflection of Australia's first home series defeat in 16 years, it should be remembered that at least five first-choice players are missing with injuries.

Setting Lee to one side for a moment, the Australian selectors have also had to go through this series without Stuart Clark - their most reliable and accurate seam bowler - and first-choice spinner Bryce McGain, who may not have played a Test match as yet but is still reckoned to be a better option than the likes of Hauritz and Jason Krejza.

All-rounders Andrew Symonds and Shane Watson are both recovering from injury - which explains McDonald's unexpected debut - while Phil Jaques is also working his way towards full fitness after a serious back problem.

If all these players happen to be fit and available in six months time, Australia could be a very different proposition.



