I write in response to a letter, Cable Car to Sri Pada, by one Dr. T. Jayasinghe of Palestine. (January 2, 2010.) In my view, a cable car to Sri Pada, though it may sound like a good idea at a cursory glance, could actually be quite disastrous.

The letter offers two basic reasons for building such a cable car—to help the elderly and sick make the pilgrimage, and as a means of attracting more tourists, both foreign and domestic, (the letter mentions, for instance, the cable cars at Santos Island of Singapore, and at the Mount of Temptation in Jericho, Palestine.)

There are, however, very good counters to these arguments. First, with respect to helping elderly and sick pilgrims, the fact is that they are already climbing Sri Pada. And they are doing so (as have generations before them over the centuries,) out of their faith and devotion. In fact, the whole point of Sri Pada is as an expression of one's faith and devotion. The ascent is a trial, and it is only after the trial that one is supposed to enjoy the sweetness of the reward at the top. To put a cable car would, in effect, destroy this tradition by offering an "easier way."

In my view, if one really wanted to help the elderly and sick in Sri Pada, it would be far better to pay attention to things like building better bathrooms along the trail, providing improved rest areas, and so on.

Second, in terms of attracting more tourists, both foreign and domestic, here again we have to balance the pros and cons. We have to consider especially the potential environmental impact. Sri Pada, it must be remembered, is located in one of the last bits of pristine wilderness in Sri Lanka. Indeed, part of the joy of visiting the mountain is to drink in the beauty of the surroundings—the lush forest, the clear streams, the hundreds of birds flitting thought the air.

True, as the letter says, the cable-car would be "an income generating project." But to whom? Should the Sri Lankan people, to whom Sri Pada rightly belongs as a National Treasure, sacrifice the long-term interests of the land so that some private businessman or some government "contractor" can reap a fortune?

I am not opposed to building a cable-car in Sri Lanka, if that is what "progress" demands. But before we start digging into the mountain or cutting into the forest, the proper environmental-impact studies have to be done by the proper authorities. Social-impact studies have to be also done, to find out how the project would impact the lives and livelihood of the people already living in the area. As at the moment, none of this has been done.

It is only after carefully considering the results of these studies, and also after extensive and open public discussion, that the cable-car, if at all, should be built. Otherwise, we'll only be selling a timeless and irreplaceable treasure, for "a few pieces of silver."





