Samaraweera, Sri Lanka Freedom Party (Mahajana Wing) Leader and Joint Media Spokesman for Fonseka, alleged that the election results were "smoothly rigged by the Rajapaksa brothers."

He compared Tuesday's poll to Hitler's election held on November 12, 1933.

Addressing a Press Conference at his office in Rajagiriya, Samaraweera said the opposition would challenge the final results in Court, but it would be a long process. The judgement on Mrs Sirimavo Bandaranaike's election petition came after three and a half years, he pointed out.

"The government printed more than two million temporary identity cards before the election. Another team of the government identified people who were not in a position to vote, like those who were abroad. Then, ruling party supporters cast those votes to Rajapaksa using the bogus temporary IDs," Samaraweera alleged.

He claimed that Rajapaksa's team had earlier identified what he called 'difficult areas' in a survey carried out by an Indian company.

Secondly, Samaraweera alleged, that the government robbed the votes cast to the Swan symbol during counting. There was a team trained by Presidential Advisor Basil Rajapaksa at every counting centre and they counted 'Swan' votes as betel leaf, he claimed.

Samaraweera alleged that the government finally robbed opposition votes when entering the results in the computer system by bribing Senior Counting Officers.

This is the latest system to rig an election, he said and claimed that Rajapaksas did not use old methods like seizing ballot boxes or replacing ballot boxes with new boxes, but opted for the latest system.

They rigged the elections using money power and the bullet, he claimed.

Samaraweera charged that the day after the election, Presidential Advisor Basil Rajapaksa acted as the Elections Commissioner and Dayananda Dissanayake was under pressure to follow his orders.

He alleged that while Basil Rajapaksa pressured the Elections Commissioner at the Elections Secretariat, Defence Secretary Gotabhaya Rajapaksa handled the government media with an 'Outside Broadcasting Bus' near Temple Trees.

"According to our surveys, Gen. Fonseka would win by 52.4 per cent and even Mahinda Rajapaksa's surveys proved it. But the Rajapaksas robbed the election," he said.

SLFP – M Kurunegala District Leader Upulangani Malagamuwa alleged that their agents withdrew from the counting centres in Kurunegala District at 3.00 am as their houses were set ablaze by UPFA supporters.





