Sri Lanka Export Development Board under the Ministry of Export Development & International Trade organized a Press Conference on the second Regional Expo Exhibition to be held at Polonnnaruwa from 7 - 9 th March, 2009 which was held at Hotel Sudu Araliya, Polonnaruwa recently under the patronage of Prof G.L.Peiris, Minister, & Maithripala Sirisena, Minister of Agriculture Development. The first of this kind of Exhibitions were held at Hambantota in December 2008.

The objective of these exhibitions has been to enhance the export benefits to the rural communities, and to bring together leading exporters to meet and understudy the supply base by the SMEs in the regions.

The "One village - One Export" concept shall hold ground in launching such exhibitions commencing from Hambantota, Polonnaruwa & Badulla on district basis. This effort is in keeping with the Mahinda Chintanaya for rural development & upliftment of the living standards of the rural communities. The climax of this campaign is for an International Expo event proposed to be held in Colombo at the end of the year.

Prof G.L.Peiris, Minister addressing the Press Conference in Polonnaruwa said that along with the commencement of the export production village (EPV) concept the only focus for export promotion was linked to industrial product development.

Now since we are an agricultural economy & mainly depending on agriculture the need for State patronage for Agri based sector has been identified. When there is a depression of the world economy specially in the West, we have been able to sustain our economic strength due to proper management of our priorities. With the old message of export or perish, we have to export our products to earn foreign exchange.

Your vegetable & fruits are exported to Maldives, where there is a developed Tourist industry. There is an equal demand for fruits in the Middle East. Our task should be to add value to our products & prepare exportable & work out that these exhibitions will pave way for a dialogue between the village producer & the exporter. We cannot allow the production to waste but we have to have a solution to make use of the extra production to save the cultivator. We have allocated 10 million for breeding inland fisheries. We had a similar system for coir based products in the Coconut triangle. On the side of investment major Indian players are here since they have placed confidence here. With the end of the conflict the mass land would be once again available for development. We are at the threshold of this investment.

Also the youth has the opportunity to have awareness in entrepreneur culture with the e promotion programmers launched by the EDB & they are trained to be enthusiastic entrepreneurs. We had this experience at Hambantota. It is with these objectives that I announce the launching of the second Gamen Lowata Exhibition for entrepreneurs from Polonnaruwa, Anuradhapura, Kurunegala, Puttlam & Matale districts to be held from 7 - 9 March, 2009, said Minister Sirisena.





