UPFA General Secretary Susil Premjayantha, MP, yesterday alleged that the joint Opposition was engaged in a systematic campaign to suppress the media though it regularly accused the ruling coalition of harassing the press in the run up to the presidential polls on January 26.

The Education Minister said that both the UNP and JVP had threatened the media as part of its political strategy aimed at terrorising journalists.

Addressing the media at the Mahaweli Centre, Premjayantha and non-cabinet Justice Minister Dilan Perera said that well advertised threats to file defamatory cases against various media institutions, too, were part of their campaign. Perera said that journalists were being threatened and harassed and attempts were made to interfere with regular political programmes on private television stations. He said that they were fully aware of what was going on in the media institutions targeted by the Opposition.

Referring to a controversial statement attributed to him that the country could suffer the way Pakistan had done, in the event of a military rule in Sri Lanka, Premjayantha said that the Opposition and UNP leader Ranil Wickremesinghe did not even allow him to explain his position in Parliament with regard to the erroneous news item.

The Minister said that Wickremesinghe had wanted him to call a press conference to clarify his position as the news item in question was based on facts given at a UPFA press conference. He said that the Hansard did not contain his statement though the Speaker allowed him to explain his position.

He challenged Opposition leaders to come on stage and explain its position with regard to corruption charges and alleged a pre-poll secret pact between Opposition presidential candidate General (retd) Sarath Fonseka and R. Sampanthan, MP and leader of the Tamil National Alliance (TNA).

Premjayantha pointed out what he called absurdity of accusing the State-run media, particularly the ITN and Rupavahini of bias towards the government after denying them an opportunity to cover Fonseka's political events.





