Deputy Minister of Social Services and Social Welfare Lionel Premasiri, speaking at the opening ceremony of Social Care Services and accessibility facilities to the Railway commuters with disabilities at Maradana Railway Station, said that of the total population of the world about 10 percent or 675 million were persons with disabilities and therefore they were a part of society that couldn't be overlooked. As such their rights as human-beings needed to be protected, he said.

The Deputy Ministersaid that the Persons with Disabilities were to be paid monthly allowance of Rs. 3,000/- in accordance with Mahinda Chinthana Policy Programme and as instructed by his Minister Douglas Devananda, about 2,500 persons had already been paid this sum and steps would be taken to pay this amount to the rest.

He said "We are a developing country and as ministers we all need to join hands to endow the persons with disabilities their due rights. As Douglas Devananda, Minister of Social Services and Social Welfare has signed the UN convention of the Rights of the Persons with Disabilities on behalf of the Government we are bound to honour the pledge made and I am making this statement with responsibility".

Minister of Road Passenger Transport Lasantha Alagiyawanna said the Ministry of Transport in the near future would take all measures deemed necessary for protection of the rights of the persons with disabilities and Minister of Transport Dullas Alahapperuma, had been very cooperative and would soon provide accessibility facilities for persons with disabilities at the railway stations, and bus stands.

Ministry of Social Services and Social Welfare and the Ministry of Transport have been jointly carrying out social care services continuously not only in Colombo but also in other places of the country. As the first step of this venture, a modified electronic life, five monitors displaying time tables for the hearing impaired and sanitary facilities for persons with disabilities were declared open on this day and made available for public use.

Ms. G. Kamalawathie, a member of the National Council for Persons with Disabilities, said that their expectations had now been fulfilled and the present Government was talking every measure possible to make persons with disabilities stand on their own feet. She also said that the facilities provided with, at the Maradana Railway Station whilst catering to the Persons with Disabilities, were to immense help to the old, sick and the pregnant.

Many officials of the Ministry of Transport and Social Services and Social Welfare including Mrs. V. Jegarasasingam, Ministry Secretary, Mr. Thilak Kollure, Secretary Ministry of Transport, Dr. Lalithasiri Gunaruwan, the General Manager Sri Lanka Railway participated.





