UB Wijekoon certainly will not win the Presidency and does not expect to but he, by contesting, is making an important statement to the people of this country. In the first instance the people would like to know who he is; he is inspired by Gandhian principles, he hails from Bandarawela, he is Peradeniya graduate and a former member of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service, was the Divisional Revenue Officer in Vavuniya and Polgahawela amongst other places. He related to the people so well that the late Minister Mr M D Banda, a truly great Parliamentarian of yesteryears, invited him to contest the Dambadeniya seat in the House of Representatives which he did, and won quite handsomely. From there, he became the District Minister for Jaffna; Then in a sense was promoted to the position of a Cabinet Minister; he was Minister of Public Administration, Home Affairs and Provincial Councils and after that Minister for the all-important Textile Industry; after that he was appointed as our Ambassador to Russia. After such an illustrious career in the service of the public, he decided to join the Swarajya movement to empower people – his is a message for change but he at the same time seeks to enthrone value based politics. As he quite rightly says, though the Constitution states that Sovereignty is in the people and is inalienable, that, in fact and practice is a myth it is, he says, now limited to placing a cross at an election, thereafter the people abdicates and the politician takes over.

Candidate Wijekoon stands for certain inalienable principles, he calls for TRANSPARENCY and ACCOUNTABILITY, so important for good governance. The cancer of corruption cannot be eradicated unless these two fundamental rights of the people are conceded. The 'Right to Information' is another fundamental right he stands for; he also calls for the public declaration of assets of all Parliamentarians and pubic officers The present practice of Parliamentarians declaring their assets to the Speaker should be discontinued --- candidate Wijekoon is of the view that we the public should have a legal right to know the assets of all those who aspire to hold public office. The level of corruption in this country is unacceptable by any standards and we the people have a responsibility to ensure that it is countered. He is also of the view that the Bribery law must also be amended so that the Commission would be required to take note of any reported acts of corruption and have investigations instituted, a power presently denied to the Commission.

Candidate Wijekoon stands firmly for the enthronement of the Rule of Law, which is more evident by its absence today. He seeks to ensure that the Police Service is reformed and the Judicial system also revisited. In this regard we could expect him, in the first instance, to call for the Administration of Justice Law of 1973 to be reintroduced. That law ensured speedy disposal of cases and was entirely in the interest of the litigant. The Jayewardene administration had repealed the law at the instance of powerful lawyers. That Act of Parliament comprising of some 366 sections was perhaps the most comprehensive piece of legislation to come out of Parliament pertaining to the Judiciary and the judicial system, this Law should be revised if necessary and reintroduced. As stated earlier, it was a piece of legislation which sought to protect the rights and interests of the litigant and also ensured speedy disposal of cases. It was therefore no surprise that a certain bunch of legal vampires/vultures, living off poor clients, saw to it that the Act was repealed. A particular feature of the Administration of Justice Law was that it permitted the filing of written submissions and set our procedures which ensured the speedy disposal of cases. We also need to have in place a 'Witness protection Law', this is an absolute imperative considering what is happening today. We are happy that the Swarajaya movement is thinking in terms of the protection of all aspects of human activity.

Another important piece of legislation, considering the present situation, which should be reintroduced, is the "Equal Opportunities Bill". The Manifesto of Candidate Wijekoon states that a fundamental aim of the movement is "the uniting of all the people of the motherland to be truly free and independent and to live in a democracy in which all citizens of this country have equal rights and opportunities to live where ever they choose and to pursue their life goals without fear of discrimination".

The candidate also calls for the appointment of a Constitutional Council and the establishment of Independent Commissions such as the PSC, the Judicial Service Commission, the Police Commission the Elections Commission and independent Media Commission, and an Anti Corruption Commission. The Swarajya movement is wholly against the politicization of public institutions.

There is a happy coincidence of policies being advocated by the Sri Lanka National Congress, which claims to be the Ceylon National Congress reborn and that of the Swarajya Movement. The SLNC advocates a commitment to a political culture based on ethics, emphasizes values, champions intellect and stands unequivocally for true peoples' democracy. and seeks to establish a caring society which will secure justice for all. Wijekoon and the Swarajya movement shares the same values.

UB Wijekoon draws attention to a fact that the Soulbury Constitution was one imposed upon us by our former colonial ruler and that the two subsequent Constitutions followed the same path. They divided the people in every conceivable manner and impeded progress. The Swarajya movement may be considered idealistic but the electoral process it suggests reminds one of democracy as it functioned in the City States of Greece it is a form of direct democracy. The system ensures the empowerment of the people at all levels of governance; there is a true devolution of political power envisaged. They advocate the establishment of self governing Village Committees or the GAM SABHA and these village Committees in a particular Division elect the Division level Committee--- or the Pradesheeya Sabha -- and the Pradesheeya Sabhas in the district elect the District Sabha and the District Sabhas and the representative of these District Sabha could then nominate members from amongst them to Parliament. This system would no doubt be unique but it has the advantage that the peoples' real representatives and not representatives of political parties would govern the country. The Swarajya movement also advocates the establishment of a Second Chamber. Buddhi-Sabha (the Chamber of Intellects) which is described as the Think Tank from representatives of professional organizations, Universities, Chambers of Commerce and Industry and recognized experts in their own fields. This Second Chamber would nominate a Vice President. The Parliament or the Desheeya Rajya Sabha would be elected from and by the District Sabhas and the Prime Minister would be elected from that Parliament. The two Chambers would at a joint session elect the President who would preside over the Supreme Council which would comprise of the President, the Premier and the Vice- President. The PM would preside over a Cabinet of 21 members. In this manner they hope to take hate out of politics in this country.

The most urgent and important need today is to usher in an age of cooperation and leave behind us the age of confrontation which has done immeasurable harm to this country; whilst other countries are galloping ahead we are moving backwards. The disease of confrontation has spread to all levels of our society, The politician is at the bottom of this; we must pull back from the abyss in our national interest. Our politicians must learn to coexist and make political cooperation and art form.

Our political culture has become more and more based upon materialistic values, prior commitment to supporting progressive social policies, has also diminished. Social policies had originally been developed from a view that Sri Lanka, a poor country, could be transformed into a model progressive "participatory democracy". There was a certain value placed on the community. Addressing the poverty situation that prevailed was the first priority; to support the quality-of-living of our citizens inclusive of education, healthcare and food irrespective of personal access to financial resources. Maybe that we created a dependent society and in the process the people lost their self confidence and also a sense of responsibility;it is conceded that the people unfortunately came to depend on politicians for hand-outs and elections became auctions, the party that offered the most was elected. The people did not feel, as a 'new age politician' has stated, "that they could work positively towards changing their own lives and the lives of their children and the community". This 'nurse-maiding' of the people killed their spirit, though it was a fundamentally humane approach to development and human security. Sri Lanka was intended to be a progressive participatory democracy, but we have lost our way somewhere along the road

Politics in the early years of our democracy was value driven; the politician valued his self-respect. That was a time when our politicians both of the 'left' and the 'right' would stand-up and defend unswerving commitments to civic commitments. Such a cadre of politicians would stand-up for a core of such progressive convictions; defending areas of national sovereignty in general, irrespective of personal self-aggrandizement considerations. Almost all our politicians of yore came to serve and almost all of them pauperized themselves.

Policies to ensure social justice in the post independence era did not make the cake bigger –the same cake was being divided into smaller and smaller pieces -- and the country too was pauperized.

Perhaps it is time for us to engage in a national rethink and give ourselves a truly home-grown Constitution that would usher in an age of cooperation and leave behind the us the age of confrontation. Let us give thought to the policies being advocated by the Swarajya movement and seek to restore value based politics.





