Sleep is that reversible state of the body in which consciousness is in abeyance. It is well known to be a form of rest for overworked areas of the body and many reparative processes go on during sleep. It is an essential component of day-to-day life and is an indispensable component of a healthy life-style. However, many vital functions of the body continue throughout any period of sleep. The amount of sleep an individual requires for health is dependent on many factors including the age and activity of the person.

There is no magical number of hours of sleep required by all children in a given age group. A two year old child might sleep from 8:00 PM to 8:00 AM whereas another two year old is just as alert the next day after sleeping from 10:00 PM to 5:00 AM. However, whatever the requirements are, adequate sleep is so very important to a child's well-being. The link between a child's lack of sleep and his or her behaviour is perhaps not always obvious. When adults are tired, they can either be grumpy or have low energy but children can become hyper-active, disagreeable and even show up extremes in behaviour patterns.

Most children have sleep requirements that fall within a predictable range of hours based on their age but each child is a unique individual with distinct sleep needs. There is no sleep formula for newborns because their internal clocks are not fully developed yet. They generally sleep or drowse for 16 to 20 hours a day, divided about equally between night and day. However, will not snooze for extended periods of time because they get hungry and they wake up for this very basic need to be satisfied. Newborns' longest sleep periods are generally 4 or 5 hours and this is about how long their small bellies can go between feedings. If newborns do sleep for a while, they will likely be extra hungry during the day and may want to nurse more frequently.

Just when parents feel that sleeping through the night seems like a far-off dream, their baby's sleep time usually begins to shift toward night. At 3 months, a baby averages 5 hours of sleep during the day and 10 hours at night, usually with an interruption or two. About 90 per cent of babies of this age range do sleep through the night, meaning 6 to 8 hours in a row.

But it is important to recognize that babies aren't always awake when they sound as if they really are awake. They can cry and make all sorts of other noises during light sleep. Even if they do wake up in the night, they may only be awake for a few minutes before falling asleep again on their own. It is best if babies learn early to get themselves off to sleep.

If a baby under 6 months old wakes up and continues to cry for several minutes, it is definitely time to respond. The baby may be genuinely uncomfortable, hungry, wet, cold, or even sick. But routine night-time awakenings for changing and feeding should be as quick and quiet as possible. It is best not to provide unnecessary stimulation, by talking, playing or turning on the lights. It is best to encourage the idea that night-time is for sleeping. One has to teach this because babies do not care what time it is as long as his or her needs are met.

At 6 months, an infant may nap about 3 hours during the day and sleep about 11 hours at night. At this age, one could begin to change the response to an infant who awakens and cries during the night. A baby of this age could be given five minutes to settle down on its own and go back to sleep. If they don't, you can comfort them without picking them up by talking softly or by rubbing their backs and then leave unless the baby appears to be sick. Sick babies need to be picked up and comforted. If your baby doesn't seem sick and continues to cry, you can wait a little longer than 5 minutes, then repeat the short crib-side visit. After several days of this routine, your baby should find it easier to get back to sleep on his or her own. Between 6 and 12 months, separation anxiety becomes a major issue for some babies and may cause them to start waking up again. But the rules for nighttime awakenings are the same through a baby's first birthday. Generally it is best not to pick up your baby, turn on the lights, sing, talk, play, or feed your child. All of these activities encourage repetition of such behaviour.

From ages 1 to 3, most toddlers sleep about 10 to 13 hours. Separation anxiety or just the desire to be up with mom and dad and perhaps not miss anything, can motivate a child to stay awake. Note the time of night when the toddler begins to show signs of sleepiness and try establishing this as his or her regular bedtime. One does not have to force a 2- or 3-year-old child to nap during the day unless the child gets cranky and overly tired. Parents sometimes make the mistake of thinking that keeping a child up will make him or her sleepier for bedtime. In fact, children can have a harder time sleeping if they're overtired. Establishing a bedtime routine helps kids relax and get ready for sleep. For a toddler, the routine may be from 15 to 30 minutes long and include calming activities such as reading a story, bathing, and listening to soft music.

Whatever the nightly ritual is, a toddler will probably insist that it be the same every night. One should not allow rituals to become too long or too complicated. Whenever possible, allow a toddler to make bedtime choices within the routine such as which clothes to wear for bed, which stuffed animal to take to bed, what music to play etc. This gives the little one a sense of control over the routine.

Preschoolers sleep about 10 to 12 hours per night but there is no reason to be completely rigid about which 10 to 12 hours they are. A 5-year-old who gets adequate rest at night no longer needs a daytime nap. Instead, a quiet time may be substituted. Most nursery schools and kindergartens have brief quiet periods when the children lie on mats or just rest.

Those of ages 6 to 9 need about 10 hours of sleep a night. Bedtime difficulties can arise at this age from a child's need for private time with parents, without the presence of other siblings around. It is most useful to try and make a little private time just before bedtime and use it to share confidences and have small discussions, which will also prepare your child for sleep.

Children aged 10 to 12 need a little over 9 hours of shuteye a night. But it's up to parents to judge the exact amount of rest their children need and see that they're in bed in time for sufficient sleep. Adolescents need about 8 to 9 hours of sleep per night, but many do not get it. As they progress through puberty, teens actually need more sleep. Because teens often have schedules packed with school and activities, they are typically chronically sleep deprived or lacking in a healthy amount of sleep.

Sleep deprivation adds up over time, so an hour less per night is like a full night without sleep by the end of the week. Among other things, sleep deprivation can lead to decreased attentiveness, decreased short-term memory, inconsistent performance and delayed response time. These can cause generally bad tempers, problems in school, stimulant use and even driving accidents as it has been observed in the West that more than half of "asleep-at-the-wheel" car accidents are caused by teens.

Adolescents also experience a change in their sleep patterns. Their bodies want to stay up late and wake up later, which often leads to them trying to catch up on sleep during the weekend. This sleep schedule irregularity can actually aggravate the problems and make getting to sleep at a reasonable hour during the week even harder. An additional consideration in this age group is the spectacle of adolescents burning the proverbial midnight oil to study for examinations. It is essential for children and parents to note that extra time spent studying, sacrificing the much needed time for sleep, is not likely to ultimately provide the desired results in better grades at examinations. Ideally, a teenager should try to go to bed at the same time every night and wake up at the same time every morning, allowing for at least 8 to 9 hours of sleep.

Sleep, or for that matter, the lack of it, is probably the most-discussed aspect of baby care. New parents discover its vital importance those first few weeks and months. The quality and quantity of an infant's sleep affects the well-being of everyone in the household. It is perhaps the difference between being cheerful, alert parents and members of the walking zombie brigade. Sleep struggles rarely end with a growing child's move from crib to bed. It just simply changes its form. Instead of cries, it is pleas or refusals. Instead of a feeding at 3:00 AM, it is sometimes a nightmare or request for water.

So how do you get your child to bed through the cries, screams, avoidance tactics, and pleas? How should you respond when you're awakened in the middle of the night? And how much sleep is enough for your child? Here are a few ways that may help your child ease into a good night's sleep. Include a winding-down period in the routine. Stick to a bedtime, alerting your child both half an hour and 10 minutes beforehand. Allow your child to choose which pyjamas or clothes to wear for sleep, which stuffed animal to take to bed, etc. Consider playing soft, soothing music. Do not give your baby or toddler a bottle of milk or any sugar-containing drink, as an aid to sleep. This can cause serious dental problems called "baby bottle tooth decay" because the fluids tend to pool in the child's mouth. Tuck your child into bed snugly for a feeling of security. Encourage your older child or teen to set and maintain a bedtime that allows for the full hours of sleep needed at his or her age.

There is no single sure or foolproof way to make a child a good sleeper. However, every parent should be encouraged to know that most children have the ability to sleep well. The key is to try, from early on, to establish healthy sleep habits.

The writer would appreciate feedback from the readers. Please e-mail him at bjcp@sltnet.lk

KEY POINTS

= Sleep is a form of rest that is essential for a healthy life.

= Children need variable numbers of hours of sleep depending on their ages.

= Most of them have a predictable range of sleep time.

= Lack of sleep has a cumulative effect.

= Establishing sleep rituals and healthy sleeping habits from early on helps in the long run.





