Sri Lanka Telecom Mobitel recently launched SMART Bonus, the first and only pre-paid loyalty programme in Sri Lanka. Pre- Paid users that are equipped with Mobitel SMART connections are automatically eligible for a loyalty programme called 'SMART Bonus.' This youthful and dynamic product is yet another customer- centric innovation from Mobitel.

Suren J Amarasekera, CEO, Sri Lanka Telecom Mobitel said, "We are proud to have launched the first and only loyalty programme for the Pre-Paid segment through SMART. This has created waves across the Pre-Paid segment in Sri Lanka by offering value that is unmatched by our competitors. With the launch of SMART Bonus, it will continue the legacy of SMART, offering greater rewards and creating excitement among the SMART community. SMART Bonus is a hassle- free programme with a multitude of benefits where SMART users are eligible for rewards, which are granted every 30 days. We are delighted to begin the awarding of the first set of bonuses on January 1, 2008 so that SMART users have a prosperous start to their year."

The features of SMART Bonus are that every new SMART user will be enrolled into the programme automatically with rewards based on SMART Bonus points. These include Re. 1 spent on making or receiving local or IDD calls equal to one SMART Bonus point, with the exclusion of taxes and levies as well as HOT IDD usage.

If SMART Bonus points - without taxes and levies - accumulated after every 30 days are 200 points or above, customers are entitled to 20 free M2M SMS and 10 free M2M minutes for five days. If a customer has a total accumulation of 1000 points or above, he or she will be entitled to 40 free M2M SMS and 20 free M2M minutes for 10 days. An accumulation of 2000 points or above results in 80 free M2M SMS and 40 free M2M minutes for 15 days. All Mobitel customers can check their SMART Bonus points by dialing *150# on their SMART connection.

In addition to this, every SMART user who accumulates 600 SMART Bonus points within six months will get a chance to win fabulous prizes through a lucky draw and those with an accumulation of over 60,000 points in six months will be offered priority services at Mobitel outlets as well as invitations to special events on a first- come-first-serve basis.

Sri Lanka Telecom Mobitel is a wholly owned subsidiary of Sri Lanka Telecom. In January 2004, the company launched its full-fledged 2.5G GSM network that is EDGE/GPRS enabled and in December 2007 Mobitel launched South Asia's first and only network with super 3.5G HSPA technology. Investments committed to date in its 3.5G/2.5G networks and service offering totals over US$ 200mn and is set to increase its present 1000 + base stations to 1500 base stations by the end of the year.





