MELBOURNE, Australia (AP) - Second-ranked Rafael Nadal was dominated in stunning fashion Thursday by unheralded Jo-Wilfried Tsonga, who reached the Australian Open finals with a 6-2, 6-3, 6-2 victory.

Nadal played well against 38th-ranked Tsonga, who had never gone beyond the fourth round in his four previous Grand Slams. But the Frenchman was virtually untouchable, smashing 17 aces against one of the best serve returners in the game.

He now will face the winner of Friday's semifinal between top-ranked Roger Federer and No. 3 Novak Djokovic.

Nadal finished with just 12 unforced errors - four combined in the first two sets. Tsonga responded with 49 winners and didn't face any break points until the third set, when he saved three in one game to finish Nadal's final serious challenge.

While Nadal is popular, Tsonga has been adopted by the Melbourne Park fans for his go-for-broke style and outgoing personality. He frequently had them standing and cheering with his mix of power and an amazingly deft net game.

Nadal got a quick taste of what was ahead as Tsonga jumped to a 3-0 lead in the first. After watching one untouchable service return zip past, Nadal simply stared at him, almost in disbelief.

As three other seeded players already had learned here, this guy is for real.

Tsonga picked up volleys off his feet. Constantly changing speed and spin, he slugged it out with Nadal from the baseline the way few players can. And anytime he got close to trouble, he pulled out his big serve to bail him out, forcing Nadal to stand three steps behind the baseline to receive.

He broke Nadal at love to finish off the first set, then reveled in the cheers, encouraging the fans to yell even louder like an orchestra conductor.

With Nadal serving at 3-4 in the second set, Tsonga set up break point with a lunging backhand volley that left him with his back facing the net, then raised his finger to indicate "One more." He smacked a blistering service return on the next point and followed with another stinging shot to set up an easy overhead for the only break he needed.

Serving for the set, Tsonga blasted two aces, then another serve that clipped the net and landed on the line. Nadal challenged the call, clearly unwilling to give Tsonga another chance - and for good reason. The call stood, and Tsonga rang up another ace.

Tsonga broke for the seventh time in the third set, then served for the match at 5-2, finishing it off with another ace. He briefly looked stunned that it was actually over, then jumped around the court in celebration.





