Indian Foreign Minister Pranab Mukherjee's sudden visit to Colombo has fuelled speculation that Premier Manmohan's Singh's government is coming under heavy pressure by the Tamil Nadu administration to force the Sri Lankan government to call off the offensive.

Well informed sources asserted that Mukherjee's visit was an attempt on the part of New Delhi to appease Tamil Nadu Chief Minister. M. Karunanidhi who had been waging a desperate campaign over the past two years to save the Tigers. The sources said that this was Karunanidhi's final attempt to throw a lifeline to the LTTE, now being decimated on the Vanni front by the Army.

By yesterday evening, the area under LTTE control east of the A9 had shrunk to about 330 square kilometres. A senior official said that the offensive would continue until the entire area was liberated and the LTTE leadership wiped out.

A senior Foreign Ministry official said that Mukherjee's visit, which takes place at a time of repeated success in the military operation to rescue the civilian population from the LTTE, is in keeping with the tradition of regular, frank and constructive dialogue between India and Sri Lanka at the highest levels of political leadership on matters of mutual interest.

While the Indian Foreign Minister arrived in Colombo on a special flight for a hastily arranged meeting with President Mahinda Rajapaksa, the Army accused the LTTE of thwarting an ICRC/UN attempt to evacuate 300 patients from Puthukudiyirippu hospital in the LTTE-held area to Vavuniya.

Army headquarters last night said the sick and the wounded had been brought from Puthukudiyirippu hospital to the LTTE roadblock to be transferred to vehicles provided by the army. Had the LTTE agreed, they could have been moved overland to Vavuniya but unfortunately the LTTE blocked the bid, a senior official told The Island.

According to the army.lk, troops had provided 12 ambulances and five buses to transfer them but the planned movement hadn't materialised.

Last week, the LTTE thwarted an attempt by the UN to evacuate a group of local employees and dependents of UN workers from the war zone.





