An atmosphere of freedom should prevail to express differing views on matters of policy if there is to be a free and fair election, the Catholic Bishops Conference said in a statement issued yesterday.

The President of the Conference, Most Rev. Bishop Vianney Fernando, issued the following statement:

The Catholic Bishops' Conference wishes to express its grave concern at the alarming escalation of election violence being reported from many parts of the country.

"As the election approaches, what seems to be needed is to focus on the major issues facing the nation as a whole which require urgent solutions to be arrived at with genuine political will and determination. Therefore, at every level, violence must be eschewed and mature debate to educate the electorate be carried out, instead of casting aspersions on candidates as well as their political parties.

"We wish to reiterate that it is the inalienable right of every citizen to cast his/her vote without fear or favour. We Catholics believe that this sacred right belongs to every one who is eligible to vote.

Every assistance must be rendered to all those responsible for the conducting of the election to maintain the highest standards of democracy in this endeavour.

"The Church has always upheld the need to respect the right and the duty to use each one's vote to further the common good. That is why the important document of Vatican Council II 'Gaudium et Spes' explicitly states: "All citizens should be mindful of the right and also the duty to use their vote freely to further the common good. The Church praises and esteems those who work for the good of others and devote themselves to the service of the state and take on the burdens of this office". Accordingly the Catholic Bishops Conference of Sri Lanka urges all Catholics and all citizens to exercise their sacred and democratic right to cast their vote at the forthcoming election.

"It is our utmost hope and prayer that the Presidential Election would be free and fair and absolutely violence-free and that it would open the nation to paths of greater freedom and prosperity as it seeks to rise above the ravages of a war that had lasted for so long."





