An Ambassador must treat his countrymen as his children – Hemanthaby Mike Andree

There have been numerous complaints from Sri Lankans living and working abroad against the Ambassadors assigned to their respective countries. Most ambassadors and their staff are said to behave in a manner far above the head of the country they represent. They seem to believe that their job is that of solely hosting or attending cocktail parties and other functions.

However, this trend seems to be changing as far as Sri Lanka's Embassy in Italy is concerned.

The Island interviewed Sri Lanka's Ambassador to Rome Hemantha Warnakulasuriya, who had returned home on a short vacation in late December, on how he had made a difference as an Ambassador.

Q: It is said that President Mahinda Rajapaksa had told a gathering of media personnel that Sri Lankans living in the UK, Germany and France have asked him to appoint a person like you as their Ambassador. What have you to say?

A. I do not know as I have not met the President as yet. But, if the President has made such a remark, then, the credit should go not only to me but to the entire staff, both Sri Lankan and Italian, who are working with me at the Sri Lankan Embassy in Italy.

Q. There have been innumerable complaints from expatriate Sri Lankans against heads of Missions and their staff. How did you bring about this change in such a short time?

A. Before I left to Italy, to assume duties as the Ambassador, I met the President and he gave me one bit of advice. "A Head of Mission represents me in that country. It is my wish that the Heads of Missions should treat the expatriate Sri Lankans as their children. You must not live away from them. You must always work for their welfare." So I took this advice as it was the best I have ever got and I tried to live up to it.

Q. What are the changes you made to fulfill this ambitious goal?

A. In Italy there may be about a 100,000 strong Sri Lankan expatriate community. Most of them are migrant workers. It is the function of the Ambassador and his staff to redress their main grievances. The Consular Section, which deals with these people, was told about the thinking of President Mahinda Rajapaksa. As a Sri Lankan, I have found that the Government service is in a deplorable and pathetic state where the citizens are treated like dirt. This is infectious. I told my staff that migrant workers all over the world are the second biggest foreign exchange earners. Most of the entertainment, perks and privileges of the staff of the foreign service are paid from the money earned by the migrant workers, who contribute substantially to supplement the budgetary deficiencies. It was emphasized that they should treat the expatriate community not only as their children but also with love, kindness and respect; I must say that I got 100 per cent support from my staff. We had a very successful Mobile Service at Verona. Our staff went to Verona in a van, driving through the whole night but they were at their desks at 8 o'clock in the morning and worked till 11 o'clock in the night. They did not have the time to go out for lunch. They did not send a single person away without finishing their work and they did this voluntarily. No one was paid overtime or batta. That was the spirit in which they worked.'

Q: It is also the duty of the Ambassador to strengthen the relationships with the host country. What have you done to achieve this?

A: I presented my credentials, as the Ambassador of Sri Lanka to Italy, to the President of Italy Giorgio Napolitano only on November 22, 2007 and when doing so I told him something that he may not have known. I told him that the relationship between our two countries was established as far back as 44 AD during the reign of King Bhathikabaya Tissa and that our Ambassador was received by Emperor Claudius. I also informed him that the contribution made by the Italian people in the aftermath of the Tsunami disaster is still etched in the memory of Sri Lankans and they are eternally grateful. I was able to talk to the Chief of the Civil Protection Authority, who complimented the Sri Lankan Government for assisting the Italian Government to successfully complete 69 projects, including in the North and East, without any problem and on schedule. They have also agreed to provide Seven Million Euros for the second stage, which will include a sophisticated Tsunami Warning System. We also have established an Italian-Sri Lanka Business Council headed by Senior Senator Ramponi who has agreed to bring a delegation to Colombo in the month of February, 2008 to pursue the possibility of investment in Sri Lanka.

Q: Has the Italian Government enforced any travel restrictions forbidding travel to Sri Lanka?

A. There were restrictions, but these have now been lifted. A Sri Lankan businessmen, Lalith Kumara Kuragama, was instrumental in organizing this tour to Sri Lanka. The Head of Banka d' Italia informed me of the restrictions imposed by the Italian Government. I met the Italian authorities and told them that thousands of foreign tourists visit Sri Lanka and no tourist had been injured during the recent past due to the ethnic strife. This was like a Court case where I had to plead the case for Sri Lanka. The Bank, after the discussion, agreed to remove the existing travel restrictions, and they also agreed to send the staff of Banka d' Italia on a goodwill tour to Sri Lanka in 2008.

Q: Have you been able to travel around Italy?

A: Italy is one of theK most beautiful countries in the world. I have found extraordinary qualities in Italians. There is absolutely no discrimination whatsoever. The Sri Lankan expatriate community must also be specially commended. They have become fitting Ambassadors of our country. They have won the hearts and minds of the Italian people. Due to this excellent relationship I am overloaded with work in promoting investment, tourism, remittances to Sri Lanka and cultural exchanges. I have travelled to Verona and Lechchi for Mobile Services and I have built bridges connecting various segments of the Italian people. I have had no time to travel as a tourist, but I intended to do so in the future I have seen that they are an extremely tolerant people who are able to appreciate our attitudes. Italians have achieved the zenith of civilization and it is clearly manifest in the way they treat their workers, labourers and house maids and other cultures, religions and ethnicity.

Q: For example?

A. When I went to Lechchi, a small town in the South of Italy, I met the Deputy Mayor of the town. He said that he knows every single Sri Lanka living in Lechchi. There were 450 Sri Lankans and all of them were Tamils. He said that there has been a request by the Tamil leaders to the Mayor to provide them with a Tamil instructor from Sri Lanka who would teach them the Tamil language, religion, culture and art. The Deputy Mayor said that it is very important that these Tamil children should not alienate themselves from their own culture. The Municipality of this town is determined to protect their Tamil cultural identity. I was surprised that in a country, where the Catholic Church was born and where His Holiness the Pope presides, they are determined to protect the religion and the cultural attributes of a minority community which is less than 500. Similarly, when the Dalai Lama visited Italy, in Milan alone there were over 10,000 Italians who braved the cold weather to listen to the Dalai Lama's message of peace and Buddhism. It is said that the seats closest to the podium were sold at 1,000 Euros each, which is around Rs. 160,000/-. That is Italy. The Italians are a people who respect and honour the cultures and religions of other communities. There are many Buddhist temples in Italy. The Sri Lankan Catholics are the biggest Dayakays (patrons) of these temples which are centers of Sri Lankan cultural integration.





