In consequence of the redution of the prices of Rubber related raw materials and materials related to crude oil, the Management of the DSI Tyres has decided to reduce prices of its product range with effect from the 1st of January according to budget concessions which have been granted under the new budget proposals for 2009. Thus the benefit of the reduction of prices will be savoured by the consumers in the New Year.

Briefing the media on this price change, Ranathunga Rajapakshe, Managing Director of DSI Tyres, noted that they have taken this decision with a lot of risk. We see the rubber production in the recent years has increased up to 113.2 in year 2007.

Also the price of rubber has gone down to Rs.131 per kilo. Thus as he noted the management has decided to make the consumers enjoy this benefit. He further mentioned that innovation, ethical practices, continuous competitive market, on time delivery has been their key elements of success. Also as he noted, one of the main purposes of this price change is to reduce the import of low quality tyres from other countries. He also expects some chemicals related to rubber production to be reduced, that they can serve their customers more with fair price changes.

Unstable price of rubber, risk of increasing fuel and chemicals, economic instability in the island, high interest rates, high inflation, devaluation of the rupee, ever changing exchange rates etc leave risks in this price change.

Samson Rubber Industries Pvt Ltd is one of the pioneers in manufacturing pneumatic tyres and allied products to local and export markets since 1982 under the brand name of DSI tyres. Having "to be world leaders in tyres and allied products" as their vision Samson Rubber Industries Pvt Ltd export their products to all 6 continents and they are experts in Industrial tyres such as pneumatic tyres, solid tyres, Latex based products, rubber moulded products etc. Besides constant supply of quality rubber form the local market, other major raw materials are outsourced from leading companies around the world such as Exon, Chevron, Alphonga, Weinmann etc.





