IT used to be thought that nothing could stop Welsh rugby from shooting itself in the foot.

But not even on this side of the Severn Bridge can we claim to have our captain resigning while the coach is sacked on the same day.

Yet that is what happened in a turbulent week when the departures of Kevin Pietersen and Peter Moores turned England into the laughing stock of world cricket.

Now question marks remain over whether Pietersen can become a foot soldier again under the reign of new skipper Andrew Strauss.

But Glamorgan coach Matthew Maynard – who remains a close confidante of Pietersen's from their time in the England set-up – believes the batsman will be an Ashes star this summer.

"Kevin has gone through a bad patch and he has probably come out as the bad man," admitted Maynard.

"But he is a very driven man and I think he will continue to perform for England as he has done.

"He has a Test batting average of 50 and he is a quality player.

"I have had a close relationship with Kevin and what I like about him is that as well as being a star player, he also has a top work ethic.

"The other bits and pieces that come with him, well, you take that."

But Maynard admits that Pietersen could find life difficult in the England dressing room after key players refused to support his views on Moores.

"I have been amazed to read about players who weren't favouring Kevin as captain come out in the press," added the former England batting coach.

"I find that astonishing and whoever has leaked that should be shot.

"Kevin is our best batsman so he has to go back into the team.

"And if he knows that three or four players did not back him, how is his relationship with those guys going to survive?

"That is going to be one of the major challenges for the new regime."

It is a challenge that will have to be addressed by new skipper Strauss, who Maynard believes will be a good replacement for Pietersen.

The Glamorgan boss was with England when Strauss successfully stood in for Michael Vaughan in 2006 before the Middlesex opener was controversially overlooked in favour of Andrew Flintoff for the 5-0 series whitewash in Australia.

And Maynard believes Strauss could yet be a success at both forms of the game after he was confirmed as one-day captain and Test skipper.

"Andrew is a different character to Kevin as he is a quieter operator, but he has a good cricket brain," added Maynard.

"I was fortunate to be involved in the side in 2006 when he captained the side against Pakistan and he was very good.

"Some thought he was unfortunate not to get the job for the Ashes.

"He knows the game well and he got the best out of his players because he was without Flintoff and Vaughan.

"He has also come through a bad run of form where he was dropped.

"Every player goes through a bad patch of form. The difference between Australia and England is that they stick with their players, whereas we drop them.

"They have been the most successful side in 20 years because they have shown consistency, and I think that the one thing Duncan Fletcher and David Graveney did was to show consistency.

"I also think Andrew is a fine one-day player, you don't need every player to hit the ball out of the ground.

"You need players who are willing to bat 50 overs and score 110 and Andrew has shown he is capable of doing that.

"He can also play in the middle of the order because he is a good manipulator of the ball."

Strauss must work with Moores' successor and their working relationship has to function if they are to restore the public faith in the English set-up.

Maynard admits it was wrong for the spat between Moores and Pietersen to become public and believes the captain has to be given the ultimate responsibility of power.

"It is not ideal and the deepness of the rift between captain and coach took us all by surprise," he added.

"From the outside it looked as if they had a disagreement, but it was worse than that and not something that could be resolved over a pint and a man-to-man chat.

"That is a shame for English cricket and I think Peter Moores is a very fine coach.

"My philosophy is that your captain has to be your main man.

"Duncan Fletcher summed it up perfectly when we were at Glamorgan.

"He told me that as captain I was the man in charge and he, as the coach, was my consultant. That is how the relationship should work.

"We had healthy discussions and disagreements on tactics, but they always remained behind closed doors."

And Maynard believes the England and Wales Cricket Board and his former Glamorgan team-mate Hugh Morris, the team's managing director, could have acted quicker to nip the problem in the bud.

"We have so many tiers of management in the English set-up and I don't think there is any clarity about who is in charge," he said.

"Hugh had done fantastically well to get that tour of India back on in the first place after the terrorist attacks.

"But, as the managing director of English cricket, he was on tour in India and he would have realised what was happening in the relationship between Kevin and Peter.

"But if he did not see the rift in the camp, then what is going on?"

"Whatever happened out there, it should have been dealt with a lot earlier and not allowed to go as far as it did.

"What has happened has left English cricket in a very fragile state.

"The Aussies might have been feeling a bit down after losing at home to South Africa, but this will have cheered them up."





