The slowest murder in history took 34 years

January 18, 2011, 6:43 pm

Today, boys and girls, we'll consider an amusing New Year tradition from the United States: the release of the annual murder statistics. The latest batch says there 532 murders in New York last year. Eight out of ten victims were male, and nine out of ten non-white. So, boys and girls, whatever you do, MAKE SURE you are born female and Caucasian. Refuse to do this and you CAN'T BLAME ME for what happens when one day you visit the West. Anyone who stubbornly insists on being male and/or non-white should at least arrive at New York's JFK airport DISGUISED as a white female. Asian guys should wear Meladerm skin whitener, lots of make-up, a baggy dress and high heels. Even if the disguise doesn't work, at least you'll have fun. AND you'll be way more popular in jail.

A statistic further down the page caught my eye: 95 per cent of murders happened on Saturdays. Amazing! Murderers have a one-day work week, followed by a six-day weekend. Big round of applause to their union rep! If this news gets out, pilots will want the same. (Oh, they already have it?) Anyway, murderers, can I borrow your union rep when it's time for pay talks at the Vapid Columnists' Union, please?

This reporter's New York brother has been visiting, so the place has been on my mind. I told him to tell Mayor Mike Bloomberg that he can get rid of all the murders by simply abolishing Saturdays and going straight from Fridays to Sundays. It would be great for productivity. And birthdays would arrive 52 days earlier every year, so everyone would live until they were 110, which would be kinda neat.

My brother told me that New York didn't feel dangerous if you actually lived there, so I took a closer look at the statistics. Fifteen of last year's murders didn't happen last year. For example, a guy called Howard Brevard was attacked in 1977 but only recently died. Now that must be the slowest murder in history—from striking the blow to the victim's death took 34 years. Good thing it didn't happen in India: there'd be another 30 years until the court hearing, 40 years for the appeal, etc. With luck, the whole case would be completed in as little as two or three centuries.

On a related subject, my "dumb criminal of the month" is a US citizen: Mario Miramontes of Dallas. Wanted for petty crimes, Mario, 22, was nervous when police stopped him on the road, so he pretended to be his clean-living cousin, Chris. Unfortunately, his cousin had just been charged with a serious sex crime. Enforcers locked Mario up and threw away the key. He spent 13 months telling officers they had locked up the wrong guy, but they just said: "Yeah, right."

Boys and girls, this story has a vital lesson for all of us. As well as making sure you are born white and female, it's even more important to MAKE SURE you are born into the right family. Mario Miramontes failed to do that and look what happened to him.

My children have just read this column and are looking very worried indeed.





Why not kangaroos?

January 18, 2011, 6:55 pm

May I make a modest proposal to the golden brains that inspired the proposal to import camels [for milk and meat] and ostriches [for eggs and meat] ? Let us also import kangaroos from Australia, where they run wild, and farm them to be slaughtered for meat. Closer home we might as well capture all our stray dogs, put them into cages [ like in broiler farms], fatten them up and export them to the dog [meat !] loving Far East.We may, of course, have to face down a barrage from the dog loving triumvirate of Sagarica, Otara and Eileen.





Royal, Panadura turn giant killers, beat Wesley

January 18, 2011, 9:19 pm

By Reemus Fernando

Royal College, Panadura, like new kids on the block, produced yet another giant killing performance as they beat Wesley College by eight wickets with more than one hour to spare in their Under-19 Division-I tournament match ended at Panadura yesterday. After posting 191 runs in the first innings, Royal, Panadura restricted Wesley to 129 runs as leg-spinner Ruchira Tharindra picked up four wickets to complete a match-bag of ten wickets. Royal were left with a target of 76 runs to chase and they achieved it for the loss of two wickets with Dushan Vimukthi scoring an unbeaten 56 runs. Royal Panadura were promoted to Division-I last year and it was their second outright victory against a Division-I team this season following their first win over Thurstan College.

Off-spinner Jude Madushan bagged eight wickets to steer De Mazenod College to a ten-wicket victory over Kalutara Vidyalaya in their U-19 match which ended with two sessions to spare at Kandana yesterday.

Hashen Ramanayake and Waruna Dissanayake put on an unfinished 84 runs partnership for the fourth wicket for Royal College to post 115 for three wickets at close after being 31 for three wickets at one stage in their second essay in their U-19 encounter which ended with Mahinda College taking major honours at Galle yesterday.

Brief Scores:

Royal 114 and 115 for 3 wkts at close in 50.5 overs (Hashen Ramanayake 38 n.o., Waruna Dissanayake 47 n.o.)

Shehan Manuran picked up seven wickets for Revata College, Balapitiya to restrict Maliyadewa College for 263 runs and earn first innings points in their U-19 tournament match ended at Balapitiya yesterday.

While Sanka Ramesh scored a century for Moratu Vidyalaya, Deshan Dias scored back-to-back half centuries for St. Sebastian's College in their match which ended with a first innings victory to the latter at Moratuwa yesterday.

Paceman and skipper Isuru Amila picked up eight wickets in the second innings to complete a match-bag of 11 wickets after contributing with a half century with the bat for Carey College to record a 28-run victory over Sri Sumangala College, Panadura in their U-19 Div-II tournament match ended at Railway Ground yesterday.





Isipathana gets Library, audio visual room

January 18, 2011, 9:59 pm

Newly built library and the audio visual room for primary school of Isipathana College, Colombo, constructed by the old boys of the '92 group will be declared open by a distinguished old boy Jagath de Alwis and the principle Kamal Bandara Illangasinghe on January 28 (Thursday) at 9.30 a.m.





Thilina and Deeksha take honours at TT

January 18, 2011, 9:22 pm

The winners of the Colombo District Table Tennis Championships with their medals and certificates.

Thilina Samaraweera of Friendship Table Tennis Club, Kotte and Deeksha Rodrigo of Visakha Vidyalaya won in the under-18 boys' and girls' singles events respectively at the Colombo District Table Tennis Championships, held at the S. Thomas' College Mount Lavinia gymnasium, recently.

According to the Colombo District Table Tennis Association, National singles runner-up, Dinesh Deshappriya of Sri Lanka Navy graced the occasion as chief guest while Musaeus College schoolgirl Ruvini Kannangara, the present junior national champion, attended the occasion as the guest of honour. (RN)





A New Union of Religion and Politics In Lieu of Richelieu!

January 18, 2011, 5:16 pm

by Eymard de Silva Wijeyeratne

I am in full agreement with The Island Editorial of 5th November 2010, which states that the submissions made by Catholic and Anglican priests, including their prelates, "have lent a great deal of credibility and acceptance to the LLRC at a time when some leading international human rights outfits have chosen to disparage and boycott it in favour of United Nations Secretary General Ban KI -Moon's panel on Sri Lanka". I will offer my comments on the submissions made to the Commission by Cardinal Malcolm Ranjith, the leader of the Catholic Church in Sri Lanka, whom hereinafter I shall address as his reverence.

The Scope for Critical Comment

As a Catholic, I eschew the excessive intrusion of the Roman imperial element in the Catholic Church, but adhere to the essential core of the Catholic Faith namely: the unconditional acceptance of the absolute sway of God, the recognition of Jesus Christ as the sole mediator and Saviour, and the Holy Spirit as the motivating force that inspires and guides fallible flesh. The other elements I accept are strict adherence to the moral code based on the teachings found in the Gospels and the need to live religion in the mode 'I need thee every hour precious Lord'. In these circumstances I find it difficult to accept the magisterium (authority to teach) of the institutional Church, when it is extended to embody the fickle whims of the hierarchy on matters that are strictly not within their scope of activity. The criterion I use to evaluate statements made by the Church is 'ubi Christus ibi ecclesia' (Where Christ is, the Church is) and not the other way around as the Church claims. It is on this basis that I offer my on comments on the submissions made by his reverence, when he testified before the Lessons Learnt and Reconciliation Commission (LLRC), as published in 'The Island' of 4th November 2010.

I realise that a grain of truth, which should be an object of delight to a discerning mind can often cause much irritation and discomfort to others. While it is not my intention to cause discomfort to his reverence or to his brother-priests and bishops, I feel obliged to take this opportunity to respond to the statements he has made before the Commission. Before I offer my comments on the specific statements he has made before the Commission, I would like to sound a word of caution. Any individual enjoys the right to express his/her views however distasteful they may be to sections of the public. Yet, a leader of the Catholic Church in Sri Lanka, must make sure that he does not make statements that are either inarticulate enough to generate speculative unrest or specifically provocative to rouse passions or inaccurate enough to evoke cynical disdain.

Political Solution

In spite of the various cynical and derisive remarks made by agencies beholden to the international community, and the threatening cloud seeded by Ban Ki Moon in the form of a panel of advisors who are seeking ways and means of denigrating Sri Lanka, the LLRC, we must say, is a body composed of eminent persons that have been entrusted with the task of inviting the views of the public in the matter of learning from past mistakes. The manner, in which the Commission has invited and listened to a wide spectrum of opposing views, is testimony to its sincerity and democratic approach. The invitation extended to his reverence is a part of that testimony. I would like to remind his reverence that his recipe for bringing about a political solution is not a matter of purely Christian concern but one that is inevitably mixed with ideology. The French novelist and philosopher, Albert Camus referred to violence generated by ideology as 'crimes de logique' (Crimes based argued assumptions: namely terrorism). He argued that though ideology purports to reduce suffering, it does as a matter of fact increase human suffering. Political agitation, he said, cannot be grounded on the foundation that the end justifies the means. The only acceptable foundation, he said, was a solid moral basis. Karl Popper too argued that ideology was based on a grave logical error; that the course of history could be manipulated to be made amenable to the scientific method. "The Utopian method that chooses an ideal state of society as the aim, which all our potential actions should serve, is likely to produce violence"... (Conjectures and Refutations). Therefore, at the end of all our searching, we may have to hold hands and sing the song, 'Where have all the Flowers Gone'; which tells us how flowers are picked by young girls, who in turn are picked by young men, who are gone as soldiers to graveyards, where flowers will bloom again: thus generating an endless cycle. At this point we need to act with humility and tolerant understanding while asking ourselves the question 'when will we ever learn'.

For the moment, I will restrict myself to the representations made personally by his reverence. He has stated that only a political solution can address the grievances of the minorities. Though the statement is a familiar one that passes off as a run-of-the-mill platitude, I have not seen a precise methodology recommended by him as political solution in the material published in the local newspapers. His reverence has claimed that the "Catholic Church in Sri Lanka made several attempts to bring the government and the LTTE into the peace process, but the efforts did not bear fruit due to misunderstandings between them" (Sunday Observer, 7th November, 2010). Surely the failure to bear fruit was not due to mutual misunderstandings but due to the intransigence of the LTTE. His response is similar to the watered down apology offered by Pope John Paul II for the harsh treatment meted out to Galileo, namely that the latter's trial was due to a 'tragic mutual misunderstanding'.

His reverence has also referred to what he calls "controversial colonisation schemes in the Northern and Eastern Provinces" and added the following intemperate statement in a newspaper (not 'The Island): "There was a fear of mass scale colonisation which could lead to them feeling that a cultural invasion was taking place". Yet, I have not seen any specific reference to the ethnic cleansing carried out by the LTTE, especially of Muslims, who were living in the North and East. It is evidently his intention to insinuate that this cultural invasion of the North and the East will be undertaken by hordes from the South of Sri Lanka, thereby misusing the word 'colonisation' which refers to the method used by the Portuguese, the Dutch and the British to invade and occupy other countries. The following analysis provided by a retired public servant, who has first-hand experience in this field, would debunk this statement. "May I briefly explain the national policy of peasant resettlement (unfortunately called colonisation) with which I was closely involved for many years as a District Land Officer and Government Agent. From the late 1920s, the Colonial government began restoring ancient (Sinhala built) reservoirs in the Dry Zone and encouraging landless peasants to settle in these newly irrigated lands. This policy continued, with little change, right up to the 1970s. It is important to understand that these settlements were on vast extents of hitherto unoccupied 'Crown' land and no Tamils were ever ethnically cleansed to settle Sinhala invaders". (Tissa Devendra, The Island, 5th November, 2010). Any attempt to permanently maintain given ethnic ratios in given areas is a violation of the rights of citizens of Sri Lanka to shift residence as they wish. It will only serve to entrench divisiveness based on ethnic rivalry in the polity.

His reverence has also made the statement that the "Prevention of Terrorism Act and Emergency Regulations must be removed with immediate effect, stating that they only lead to arbitrary arrests and the unnecessary detention of persons". What he obviously means, is that these two pieces of legislation must be repealed. There is a grave flaw in this recommendation. If one were to say, for example, that the Police force is inefficient and corrupt, the solution would not be to abolish the police force but to reform it. Terrorism has come to stay because the international community and men like Ban Ki Moon are selective in their attitude to it: one rule for the protection of the Western nations and another for its proliferation in small developing nations like Sri Lanka. Even though I readily concede that his reverence does not favour terrorism, any well-rehearsed objection to measures designed to prevent terrorism will ipso facto be deemed to provide an agar-culture for its growth. The remedy is for the government to ensure that the provisions of these legal enactments are not abused.

The other proposal his reverence has made before the Commission that "those entering the Universities should be proficient in Sinhala, Tamil and English" is neither practical nor desirable. A rule that a Tamil student should learn Sinhala or that a Sinhala student should learn Tamil to qualify for entrance to a University, constitutes a violation of their fundamental rights. It is absolute naivete to believe that dissension due to differences in ethnicity can be solved by compelling people to study both languages. It will only lead to further tensions. What is needed is the will to live together in a community, where all Tamil speaking people are given the opportunity to conduct all transactions with the government and other institutions with the use of Tamil, and where a mix of all communities live together with mutual acceptance on equal terms. Neville Ladduwahetty has made a sound analysis, which I believe could contribute a practical solution to this problem (The Island, Tuesday 9th November).

The LLRC has been entrusted not only with the task of enabling the nation to learn from past mistakes but also to stimulate a process of ongoing reconciliation. The statements made by his reverence may, in my view, serve to lacerate old wounds and swell the tide of ethnic passions that are lodged deep in the collective libido of those who are ever ready to stoke the fires of racial discord. I say this because his public statements in the past on the subjects of religion and politics have evoked severe criticism and censure. His recent political interventions are in direct contradiction of a momentous statement he made at the inception of his episcopal career. I say this in sincere hope, as a lesson to be learned. In a homily delivered by him as a young bishop at Lucia's Cathedral, Colombo on 18th July 1993, he made the following statement. "He (Jesus) was not bothered about social oppression, injustice and the like, which were strongly visible in his own time. He showed us how meaningless it was to think about political and economic freedom without first turning our lives to God" (Bishop Malcolm Ranjith as reported in the Messenger of 25th July 1993).

Sometime later he made a statement, which received the response that was titled 'Episcopal sleight-of-hand'. Here is an extract from that response. "I am also obliged to record that I too feel 'disturbed' and angered' by the Bishop's methods of controversy which strikes me as being tainted with sophistry. I should like to know what rule of logic permits the Bishop to proceed from the police statement, "Churchmen are helping rebels' to his own startling conclusion that "It is an organised campaign to vilify the Church... There is no doubt that the police comment on the incident had for its basis the hoary analogy that should you find a trout in your glass of milk, it is not an unreasonable inference that the milk has been watered. It was broadly this principle that the poor police officers applied when they apprehended two men of the cloth, not with the Latin Vulgate, the discourses of St. Augustine or the Summa Theologica, but with startlingly unclerical items as copper-wire, pen-torch batteries and impressive bundles of the root of all evil (Vernon Gooneratne, The Island, Tuesday 21st November 1995). The study of the contents of the aforementioned religious tracts would serve to establish "Ius sine venia per omnia saecula saeculorum" (Justice without pardon for ever and ever).

Politics in Religion

I realise that criticism of statements made by a high official representing a corporate religious confession may not be appreciated by members who profess that religion. Yet I must stress that my right to offer criticism on national issues does not mean that they are directed at his person or the office that he holds. I wish his reverence good health, good fortune and abundant success in his mission. Yet, I must admit that I am by no means enamoured of high ecclesial office, because per se it does not add lustre to the sacred mission of the Church. I say this because people in our country, both Christian and non-Christian find it difficult, as we do, to reconcile the sublime quality of the life of Jesus Christ, especially his humility, simplicity, and value-filled teachings, with the empty pomp and pageantry associated with high office in religion. We need to bear in mind that Jesus Christ, was the 'Suffering Servant', who piled upon himself the vicissitudes of the human predicament. The prophet Isaiah foretold the role of Jesus in the following words, "He was despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows, and familiar with suffering (Isaiah 53: 3). It is sad but true that the Catholic Church like the chosen people of yore cannot come to terms with the idea of a Suffering Servant because it prefers the role of a victorious Messiah that wields the multi-edged sword of endless condemnation of heresy, silencing and excommunication of well-meaning priests and bishops.

Violation of the

Life-Support: Liturgy

There appears to be a movement in the Church to go back to the pre-Vatican 11 dispensation of making Latin, mandatory in the celebration of the Eucharist. This may not be true, but if his reverence does favour it, his call for compulsory proficiency in Sinhala, Tamil and English strikes a discordant note. Latin is by no means a providential language. It is a residue from the Roman Empire. Jesus spoke Aramaic, a dialect of Hebrew and the evangelists wrote the Gospels in Greek and we Sri Lankans speak and write either Sinhala, Tamil or English.

It is with considerable surprise and disappointment that I read some directions to the faithful in a Catholic Church in Colombo, in a leaflet, 'Parish News', 17th October, 2010. "The priest-in-charge says that the head of the Church in Sri Lanka "has authorised several liturgical changes in a Book entitled 'Liturgical Guardian'. We will be implementing them soon. For the moment, the following will take effect:

Only children who have received the Sacrament of Confirmation will be permitted to read at Holy Mass.

No small children will be permitted to bring the Offertory Gifts. Only Adults".

Children are a national treasure that must be nurtured, nourished and protected at any cost. If children must be nurtured at a secular level with proper schooling, medical care, and opportunities for personal development not only in studies but also in sports, music and other extracurricular activities, they should be given greater encouragement and support to participate in meaningful religious activities. We were fortunate to be given such support by great and holy priests like Fr. Peter Pillai, Fr. Basil Wiratunga, Fr. Fr. Justin Perera, Fr. Ignatius Pinto and many others. The New Testament given to us, principally in the form of the Gospel cannot be arbitrarily changed by clergymen. Zaccheus climbed a Sycamore tree to see Jesus and behold his radiance (Luke 19: 1-10). Yet, this does not mean that we should climb ladders to occupy high ground and thereby pre-empt others who have greater merit to occupy such positions. Children possess greater merit than confirmed adults because:

" At that time Jesus said, 'I praise you Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because you have hidden these things from the wise and learned, and revealed them to little children". (Matthew 11: 25, Luke 10: 21)

People were bringing little children to Jesus to have him touch them, but the disciples rebuked them. When Jesus saw this, he was indignant. He said to them, 'Let the little children come to me, and do not hinder them, for the kingdom of God belongs to such as these. I tell you the truth, anyone who will not receive the kingdom of God like a child will never enter it'. And he took the children in his arms, put his hands on them and blessed them" (Mark 10: 13-16, Matthew 19: 13 -15).

These decisions constitute a sacrilegious interpretation of liturgy. At a time when actual sins such as throwing babies (bundles-of-joy) into rivers and garbage dumps and hacking sleeping villagers to death with machetes, are a part of the diet we are served as news, what would one feel if someone said, "If there is no Original Sin, Jesus cannot be a second Adam". Since Jesus is coeval with the Father he cannot be downgraded to the level of a venal second Adam. Hence, not being adamantly dismissive of people, Jesus Christ will cherish children, whether they are confirmed or not, just as he did when he was living on earth.





Dress codes will not a Taliban make

January 18, 2011, 6:50 pm

When I was in school, we debated with a Girls' school whether a bride with a dowry was better than a bride with a degree. The girls opted for the degree, at least in the debate. We had to win. After all it had to be our decision as we were debating about brides and not bridegrooms. Now a duo are exposing their secret prejudices and swinging anti-Taliban axes in the media about mothers/daughters being asked to dress modestly in a SL way by wearing saris/salwar kameez/long dresses when visiting their old school. Not one mother has protested. Guess what will prevail and why? Both men think there is a whiff of 'Talibanism' whatever that means in this move. (Taliban actually means students-not necessarily in such schools - who follow their holy book to the letter). What the Taliban is doing in their country, Afghanistan, is fighting the invader which Afghans have been doing successfully throughout history. Guess who won and will win now here and there? Which mother would object or resist wearing the sari/salwar to see their children in school? Which child will object?

If mentioning Taliban which has an obvious communal slant here means anything else such as forceful implementation of their interpretation of the dress code of the Sharia (Islamic law), that is their business. We may or may not approve. If this school has laid down a dress code for mothers, that is the business of the school, hopefully endorsed and supported by the mothers. Which mother in Kandy will object to being asked very politely and kindly to wear a sari to her son's school and ensure that her daughters wear long dresses and tops? Which son will disapprove of such a request? Surely, it is their business whatever two old boys with an axe to grind think. We should not take the side of the Dutch, Danes, French or any other colonial power to take a pot shot at the Taliban to cloak deep rooted prejudices, especially communal, against an SL identity.

There is also a political twist to this protest that the duo will not deny. They should not drag the business of the school into the public. They should not have ambushed the Principal by quoting his letter about the dress code after trapping him. That is not what 'respice finem' is about.

They should not say down with the sari and up with the skirts to support their preferences as one of them appears to be doing in his recent letter in 'The Island'. Yet, by bringing in cinema billboards which show 'lurid' images, he seems to be aware of the dangers to 'morality' etc that scantily dressed women 'pose'. Yet, the side he supports appears to be in favour of such immodesty of course for some hidden agenda. That is not too difficult to decipher.

Since we went to the same school, let's support it and the Principal in public, please!





*Govt minister bemoans state of DFCC and NDB Lanka needs more venture capital companies * 'Despite local expertise, major construction contracts carried out by outsiders'

January 18, 2011, 12:00 pm

By Hiran H. Senewiratne

Science and Technology Minister Prof Tissa Vitharana said that Sri Lanka should establish more and more venture capital companies in order to promote small and medium size enterprises. "The financial institutions like DFCC bank and NDB bank were mainly created by the government to promote venture capital businesses but unfortunately those institutions did not serve that purpose and are now functioning like the other normal commercial banks," Minister Vitharana said at the National Construction Excellence Awards 2010. This was organized by the National Construction Association. "Under this system, financial assistance is provided to early-stage, high-potential, and growth start-up companies, which is important for any company. Therefore venture capital funds make profits by owning equity in the companies it invests in, which usually have a novel technology or business model in high technology industries, such as biotechnology, IT, software etc," he said.

Prof Vitharana said Sri Lanka must give priority to exporting value-added finished goods rather than exporting raw materials to other countries. "For this reason we have to use new technology and nano- technology in particular, to give value to our exports in order to be competitive in their respective markets."

He said following international best practices and adhering to international quality standards was crucial as well.

"If Sri Lanka followed these standards and best practices we could compete with any country in the world because we possess all inherent skills and expertise to attract the international market. Unfortunately, will all the skills and knowledge our construction industry possesses, our major construction contracts are being carried out by international contractors," he said.

At the event four companies namely Maga Engineering, International Construction Consortium Ltd, Orient Construction Company and Sierra Construction were presented awards in recognition of their Construction Excellence (National) for the year 2010 by Minister Vitharana.





Voice of Tigers' expansion during CFA: Who is telling the truth?

January 18, 2011, 9:59 pm

Who really wanted the LTTE to expand its clandestine Voice of Tigers (VoT) radio station immediately after the signing of the Oslo-arranged CFA on Feb. 22, 2002? Who paid over $ 90,000 to acquire the equipment bought in from Singapore?

The then Defence Secretary Austin Fernando dismissed recent Hindustan Times report based on a classified US diplomatic cable that Premier Ranil Wickremesinghe's government had requested and received radio equipment through government departments, including the Defence Ministry.

Fernando told The Island that the Norwegian Embassy had imported the equipment. He emphasised that the Defence Ministry had nothing to do with the import of radio equipment.

The former Defence Secretary also ruled out the possibility of any other ministry being involved in the transaction. He said that the government Peace Secretariat had handed over the radio equipment and there was no assistance whatsoever from the Defence Ministry.

According to the then US Ambassador Ashley Wills, Westborg told him that the Sri Lankan government specifically requested his embassy's assistance several months ago to bring down the equipment. Wills quoted Westborg as saying that Norway had only agreed to help if the equipment was provided to the Peace Secretariat — and not directly to the LTTE. Wills said: "Press reporting to the effect that the Norwegian government was out to assist the LTTE by undermining GOSL authority was an outright falsehood, Westborg emphasised."

Although Wills quoted Westborg in his Dec. 12, 2002 missive as saying that Sri Lanka had requested their assistance 'several months ago' to facilitate the import of radio equipment, Bradman Weerakoon, the then Secretary to Premier Ranil Wickremesinghe is on record as saying that the LTTE informed the PM's Office of acquisition of FM transmitter and other equipment worth $ 93, 265 on Oct. 1, 2002.

Weerakoon wrote in his book, 'Negotiating Peace in Sri Lanka' (Volume II) that a Technical Committee established by the Defence Ministry following a physical check had recommended the issue of a license to install and operate a radio station. Weerakoon's revelation goes against former Defence Secretary Fernando's claim that the Defence Ministry had nothing to do with the transfer of radio equipment. Weerakoon has revealed that the Defence Secretary was on PM's Advisory Committee, which handled the VOT issue.

According to the US embassy, the consignment of radio equipment reached the Colombo port in November, 2002. The Norwegian Embassy told the US mission that it had turned the consignment over to the GOSL's Peace Secretariat, which then passed the items over to the LTTE with the assistance of the Defense Ministry.

Ambassador Wills quoted then Peace Secretariat Chief Ambassador Bernard Goonetilleke as saying that was an important concession by the LTTE because for the first time the group had conceded that its radio station should follow GOSL-set procedures like all other stations in the country. Goonetilleke went on to say: "Tigers could have tried to import the equipment illegally, as they have done in the past. If they had done so successfully, the government would not have had any leverage over their broadcasting capabilities, which it now has to some degree."

Ambassador Wills asserted that the government's failure on the media front caused the public anger being directed at the Norwegians. "Overall, while the incident did not really do too much damage to the peace process, its handling provided skeptics of the process some ammunition. At the same time, it is important not to miss the fact that this was an instance where the Tigers paid heed to government regulations, something the group never did before the peace process was launched."

The LTTE quit the peace process four months later. During the war, the SLAF launched a series of attacks targeting the Tigers' broadcasting facilities.





Yohan de Silva and Sachith Pathirana hit half centuries to guide Kandurata to a massive 109-run victory over Uva in the eighth game of the ongoing Inter-provincial Limited-over Cricket Tournament played at SSC, Colombo yesterday. Winning the toss, Kandurata captain Kumar Sangakkara decided to bat first and his decision was justified immediately when both de Silva and Pathirana scored a half century each to take Kandurata to a sizeable 274 and, in reply, Uva lost wickets at regular intervals and were bundled out for only 165 runs.

Opening bat de Silva and No.3 Pathirana shared 125 runs for the second wicket after Kandurata lost Saman Jayantha early in their innings. Pathirana went onto score 68 runs off 70 deliveries with two sixes and eight fours while de Silva scored 64 off 67 with three sixes and six fours.

Uva came back to the game by picking wickets in the latter part of the Kandurata innings but their efforts were only enough to reduce the gap between the two totals in the final analysis.

In reply, Uva lost wickets at a quick succession but opening batsman Tharanga Paranavitana managed to top-score with a half century while Thilina Kandamby scored 44 runs.





Asian shares rise slightly

January 18, 2011, 6:11 pm

BANGKOK (AP) — Most Asian share markets posted tentative gains Tuesday following a U.S. holiday and an unimpressive start to efforts by Europe to invigorate its response to a protracted debt crisis. Oil prices wallowed near $91 a barrel while in currencies, the dollar was down against the yen and the euro. Japan's Nikkei 225 stock average added 0.4 percent to 10,539.10 after opening the session lower. Automakers including Toyota Motor Corp. and Nissan Motor Co. advanced. Elpida Memory Inc., Japan's biggest semiconductor maker, jumped 3 percent after the Nikkei financial daily reported that the company plans to raise prices of chips used in personal computers.

Hong Kong's Hang Seng index rose 0.8 percent to 24,339.27 and South Korea's Kospi advanced 0.4 percent to 2,109.04. A solid showing by banking shares sent Australia's S&P/ASX 200 up 0.8 percent to 4,802.60. Benchmarks in China, Taiwan and Singapore also advanced while shares in New Zealand and the Philippines fell.

Notable individual gainers included Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd., which surged more than 6 percent in Hong Kong. The company said in a statement Monday that it expects to return to profits this year.

While most benchmarks in Asia were up, the picture was less certain in Europe.

The finance ministers of the 17 countries met in Brussels on Monday but acknowledged being weeks away from agreeing on how to overhaul a euro750 billion ($1 trillion) bailout fund to better deal with the region's crippling debt burden.

The crisis has already forced Greece and Ireland to implement painful budget cuts in exchange for multibillion dollar bailouts. Harsh remedies prescribed by governments have provoked protests and strikes in Portugal, Greece and elsewhere.

"They really have no political solution to that. Every time there are cuts, they are met with strikes," said Tey Tze Ming, a trader at Saxo Capital Markets in Singapore. "These worries are not going to go away. We are not really positive on equities there at the moment."

Meanwhile, investors across the region were waiting to see how Wall Street reacts to Apple's announcement that CEO Steve Jobs would be taking a medical leave of absence. U.S. financial markets were closed Monday for a holiday.





China announces $1.5 million flood relief for Sri Lanka

January 18, 2011, 9:49 pm

BEIJING, January 18, 2011: China on Tuesday said it would provide 10 million RMB ($1.52 million) in emergency humanitarian relief to flood-hit Sri Lanka. Flooding has left at least 40 people dead and more than 1 million people displaced in the north, east and central parts of the country in recent days. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hong Lei said in addition to the Chinese government's $1.52 million relief package, the Red Cross Society of China would provide cash assistance of $30,000.

On Monday, India's second consignment of $1 million reached the island nation, which included 21 tonnes of relief material, containing pulses, milk powder, sugar and water-purifying tablets.

Mr. Hong said Chinese Foreign Minister Yang Jiechi had conveyed the Chinese government's sympathy and support to Sri Lankan External Affairs Minister G.L. Peiris. "The Chinese people empathise with the Sri Lankan people. We believe under the leadership of the Sri Lankan government, the Sri Lankan people will overcome the floods and rebuild their homes," he said.

In recent years, China has emerged as among Sri Lanka's biggest donors. In 2009, China, for the first time, became the country's single biggest donor, providing $1.2 billion in loans and grants.

Financial assistance from China in that year exceeded that from development organisations such as the Asian Development Bank and the World Bank.

According to a report in the Financial Times on Tuesday, China's state-run banks have lent more to developing countries than even the World Bank, between 2009 and 2010. The newspaper reported that the Export-Import (Exim) Bank of China and the China Development Bank together provided more than $110 billion in loans in 2009 and 2010, compared with $100 billion from the World Bank in the past two years.

Responding to the report, Mr. Hong of the Foreign Ministry said China would continue to provide more financial assistance to developing countries, in keeping with its own development. "With China's development, China will contribute more to world peace and development," he said. "Providing development aid to other countries is a concrete reflection of China's foreign policy in this regard." (The Hindu)





Thousands of schoolchildren branded 'racist' and 'homophobic' during playground squabbles

January 18, 2011, 6:45 pm

Thousands of children, including those attending nursery school, were involved in racist or homophobic incidents over the past year, figures have disclosed.

By Andrew Hough

Teachers logged more than 10,000 confrontations involving primary school students making racist insults or derogatory comments about homosexuals in 12 months. A further 20,000 "hate crimes" were recorded against secondary school students such as using the phrases "white trash" or "gaylord" during playground squabbles. And nursery school staff reported several dozen such bullying incidents involving young children despite most not understanding the meaning of what they were saying. Experts said the government was attacking childhood. The government has previously said that any sort of bullying was "totally unacceptable and should not be tolerated".

The figures for 2008/09, obtained under the Freedom of Information Act, disclosed 29,659 racist incidents were reported by schools to local education authorities in England and Wales. Of these, 10,436 were at primary schools and 41 were reported at nursery schools. More than 50 incidents involved police. Hundreds of incidents involved "homophobic" insults. Birmingham City Council recorded the highest number, with 1,607 racist incidents, compared with only two each in the Vale of Glamorgan and Hartlepool.

The latest figures are less than the 40,000 annual incidents of racism recorded previously. Schools were placed under a duty by the Government in 2002 to monitor and report all racist incidents to their local authority.

After the introduction of the Race Relations (Amendment) Act 2000, which put public bodies under a duty to eliminate discrimination, schools were told they had to monitor the impact of their policies on the educational attainment of pupils of different races.

Racist incident forms were then created that required teachers to name the alleged perpetrator and victim, and spell out what they did and how they were punished. Schools can keep these details on file.

"I feel that childhood itself is under attack," Adrian Hart, from the Manifesto Club, a civil liberies group, which obtained the figures.

"It's absolutely the case that these policies misunderstand children quite profoundly."

He added to the Daily Mail: "Racist incident reporting generates the illusion of a problem with racism in Britain's schools by trawling the everyday world of playground banter, teasing, childish insults – the sort of things that every teacher knows happens out there in the playground."

Last September The Daily Telegraph disclosed that a serious case review of a student, Henry Webster, attacked with a hammer by racist bullies in 2007 recommended that all schools go far further. Teachers should investigate whether racism may be a factor in every incident of playground bullying, it found.





Japan's new graduates face grim job prospects

January 18, 2011, 9:49 pm

TOKYO (AP) - A record one-third of Japanese university students graduating this spring have not found jobs, underscoring dwindling career opportunities for young people even as companies post robust profits. The latest numbers released by the government Tuesday were so bad they prompted officials to couple the report with new measures to help jobseekers. The reluctance of companies to hire is particularly worrisome for Japan's graduates because a person's first job out of college is a critical step that often determines a lifelong career with a single company. If you miss that step and get stuck in lower-paying part-time or contract work, full-time employment may never materialize, leading to lower wages and a lower standard of living.

The fate of young workers is also vital for the overall economy. Among the many problems tied to a rapidly aging population like Japan's is that older people tend to spend less. So Japan needs its younger generations to spend more to underpin private consumption, which accounts for more than half the economy.

The joint survey by the labor ministry and the education ministry showed that 68.8 percent of university students had secured employment as of Dec. 1 - the lowest level since 1996 when the government began collecting data and 4.9 percentage points worse

than last year.

It's even tougher for junior college students. Less than half of those graduating in March have jobs, the report said. Officials surveyed 6,250 students at 62 universities and 20 junior colleges across Japan.

The numbers are in bleak contrast to the solid recovery staged by corporate Japan over the past year. The collapse of Lehman Brothers and the recession that followed forced many Japanese companies to aggressively restructure, including cutting jobs and scaling back new recruitment. But thanks to strong global demand, particularly from China, exporters like Sony Corp. and Toshiba Corp. are making money again.





Children prescribed antibiotics are twice as likely to develop digestive problems, scientists claim

January 18, 2011, 7:05 pm

By Laura Roberts

Young children who are treated with antibiotics are twice as likely to develop digestive problems later on, according to new scientific research. The study, published in the health journal Gut, looked at the medical and prescription records of 580,000 children over an eight-year period. It found that youngsters who had been given one course of medication such as penicillin or other antibiotic treatments by the age of three or four were 1.84 times more likely to be diagnosed later on with bowel disease than those who had never received the drugs. The risk of developing the illness increased by 12 per cent every time the medicines were prescribed, the study found.

Children who received antibiotics found to be nearly twice as likely to develop irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) and three and a half times more at risk of Crohn's disease whose symptoms include abdominal pain, weight loss and nausea.

Scientists believe that the medication can encourage harmful bacteria and other organisms to grow in the gut which can trigger conditions such as irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) and Crohn's disease.

The researchers also considered that antibiotics can destroy "good" bacteria and other microflora which helps to protect the digestive system.

Anders Hviid, lead researcher from the Statens Serum Institute in Copenhagen, Denmark, said: "Antibiotics are among the most beneficial discoveries of modern medicine and decisions regarding their clinical use should be base on very strong evidence. Our study has demonstrated a link, but we cannot conclude that this link is necessarily causal."





Monkey has padlock meal at Zoo

January 18, 2011, 9:50 pm

Following our Monday's (Jan. 17) revelation of some visitors to the National Zoological Gardens secretly feeding animals, a concerned visitor, Esna Fonseka Wijayasooriya made available to The Island a video of a monkey picking up a padlock thrown at it by a visitor and then putting it in its mouth. For want of an effective monitoring system, the lives of some animals at the NZG seemed to be at risk. Mrs. Wijayasooriya told The Island that there hadn't been any zoo employee close to the section, where the monkey was given a padlock. Those gathered at the scene enjoyed pranks at the expense of the animal. She also televised the Chimpanzee, which was given a chocolate ice cream (The Island carried Chimp with ice cream on Monday). In spite of a sizeable work force on duty at the NZG to look after the safety and security of animals in captivity, visitors continue to secretly feed animals with ice cream, biscuits, chocolate and even 'murukku.'(SF)





Indian Consulate in Jaffna begins issuing visas

"We have begun giving visas from today [Monday]," Indian Consul-General in Jaffna V. Mahalingam told The Hindu, when asked about the progress of works in the Consulate since it was set up in November-end. "We can issue between 50 and 100 visas each day," he said.

The process of application remains the same: the applicant has to approach the facilitating service, VFS, for a visa. This would be sent to the Indian High Commission in Colombo, which will verify passports and the genuineness of the applicant. The passport, stamped with the visa, can be picked up from the Consulate in Jaffna.

"We are expecting some more software and personnel to come down from India. Once that is done we will be able to provide better service," said Mr. Mahalingam.

He said other consular services had also commenced in Jaffna. The consulate caters for the whole peninsula — Jaffna, Kilinochchi, Mullaitivu, Vavuniya and Mannar.





Digamadulla ITAK MP complains to SC: Expelled from party for voting with Govt.

January 18, 2011, 9:57 pm

By Chitra Weerarathne

Illankai Tamil Arasa Kachchi (ITAK) Parliamentarian for the Digamadulla District P. Hewage Piyasena, in a petition filed in the Supreme Court, challenging his expulsion from the party, had stated that he was unduly expelled for having voted with the government in favour of the 18th Amendment to the Constitution, which enables the incumbent President to contest the presidency for a third time.

The petition was called before Court yesterday and listed for hearing on January 24 and 25, 2011.

The petitioner had complained that he was not given a copy of the party constitution prior to the expulsion, which, he alleged, was done exparte, prior to the completion of the inquiry against him.

He stated that the expulsion was mala-fide and should be set aside by the Court.

The first respondent is the ITAK, the second, its leader and third the General Secretary.





Letter : Who will win the World Cup?

January 18, 2011, 9:27 pm

I am sure that millions of cricket fans are looking forward to witness the ICC World Cup Tournament and the question in everyone's mind seems to be who will win the tenth Cricket World Cup. Many cricket legends have already predicted that either India or Sri Lanka will carry all before them. Both teams are very strong sides and matches are played on their own conditions. So everyone's predicting that either Sri Lanka or India will win the most prestigious award in cricket. As patriotic Sri Lankans, we all would like our team to win the World Cup. That is the wish of all Sri Lankans and we hope and pray that everything will go our way and our lion-hearted cricketers will give their best during the tournament to engrave the Sri Lanka name in the ICC World Cup again. My desire is to see our country winning the tournament after our last victory in 1996. If we miss this chance, it will be like missing the hen with the golden eggs. We hope that our cricketers will not disappoint us.

Though my wish is that Sri Lanka should win, I would like to put forward my opinion regarding the winners of this World Cup. Though we have a formidable side, our batting mainly depends on Mahela Jayawardene and captain Kumara Sangakkara. If by chance during the knock-out stage both of them fail in one match, then our hopes will be only a dream. Let us hope for the best and our wish is that both of them perform well in the entire tournament. I am sure that even the other players will deliver the goods in the batting department.

Let us take the English side. It is one of the best teams in the tournament. They are a very strong all-round team and presently they are playing like a champion side. Also we could observe that they are a very united bunch of players. This team does not depend on one or two players. In my opinion, it is extremely difficult to beat them. The only disadvantage England seem to be having is that matches are played in the sub-continent. But the T-20 World Cup was played in the West Indies where they played like professionals and won the tournament.

At present the English team is playing with lots of enthusiasm and passion and they will be one of the favourites and if Sri Lanka are to play them in the knock-out stage, it will be a tough ask to beat them.

My Conclusion is that I long to see Sri Lanka winning the World Cup. If not, let our neighbours India win the tournament. But England will be one of the strongest contenders to win the 2011 World Cup. If someone asks me to name a team that will win the World Cup other than Sri Lanka, I will have to say it's England.





South Korea to light up Lanka's streets

January 18, 2011, 6:09 pm

* US$ 2mn grant to cut street lamp maintenance costs by 80%

By Ifham Nizam

The South Korean government will provide a grant of nearly USD two million to the Lanka Electricity Company (Pvt) Ltd (LECO) to convert conventional street lamp bulbs into energy efficient ones in the coastal belt. LECO provides 10 per cent of the country's electricity consumers especially with a focus in the coastal belt. The Company's Chairman Chandana J. Haputhantri told The Island's Financial Review yesterday the Korean Government will support as a pilot project after inspecting the energy efficiency program to cut energy costs by 30 per cent using automatic switch on and switch off method.

Haputhantri says Rs. 400 million is spent annually on street lights coming under the LECO area. However, there is a 30 per cent reduction following the induction of the automatic system. He says by using energy efficiency bulbs the cost to maintain street lamps could be cut down by 80 percent.

The LECO Chief also says they recorded an income of around Rs. 14 billion last year and anticipates a figure of around Rs. 18.5 Billion this year. Last year Rs. 12 million was spent on purchasing power.

With the intention of improving their service to the consumer plans have been implemented to increase that figure to Rs. 15 million this year. Through this LECO anticipates a profit of Rs. 796 million, against the profit of Rs. 264 million (before tax) recorded last year.

He says LECO which lays claim to a prudent history of 25 years, can be identified as a company that provides the same quality service as the CEB.

"Furthermore, we are committed to serve the people through being environmentally friendly, satisfying the customer through innovative services, dedication and providing the best service through a talented and contented workforce," he added.

LECO provided their services to 392,782 consumers in 2004, have been efficient enough to improve that figure to 473,813 this year.

Although LECO is reaping the benefits of providing the consumers a better, trusted service, through its favourable infra structure, they are committed to developing constant quality development programs.

In addition to these consumer oriented programs, plans are currently under way for the progressive development of more efficient street lighting.





Can a vegetarian order slaughter of millions of people?

January 18, 2011, 6:53 pm

I would like to add a few more facts to Ranjan Gunatilaka's letter of 30th Dec., captioned 'vegetarians and animal slaughter'. He has sighted Mahathma Ghandhji and Hitler as total vegetarians. Everyone knows about Mahathmaji but not about Hitler who was also a total vegetarian, non smoker and a teetotaler. From some notes I made from a book about Hitler, the author says, "Hitler's culinary confections were not to his taste. But the lick —spitting Borman dutifully consumed raw carrots and leaves in his master's company and then would retire to the privacy of his own and devour with relish his pork chop or a fine wiener schuetgel". Hitler called Georing, "our Bavarian Cannibal". He quotes Hitler saying, "I have every respect for the man who stand and faces a charging tiger in the jungle but none at all for the would be Nimrod who takes advantage of the mating season to sit up a tree and shoot down some unsuspecting animal intent on paying court to his mate".

About Hitler being a teetotaler he says, "Hitler's celler was filled with the choicest wines gifted from every province of Germany. Hitler says, 'I did not like it. I always think I am drinking vinegar. But without some sugar I could not swallow the stuff'! Imagine drinking wine with sugar! Regarding his morality the author says, "Virtuous married women wrote and begged Hitler to become the father of their children"! As to his love life, the author says that he truly loved only his niece, Gaily Raubal, and when she shot herself dead she lived in his heart until his death. Hitler met Eva Braun long after Geily's death but not romantically. Hitler married Eva Braun only just before he committed suicide in his bunker."

The question that comes to mind is how could a man of these qualities develop such hatred toward the Jews and slaughter millions of them?

Let me take this opportunity to briefly express my views as to why The Enlightened Samma Sambuddha did not admonish his disciples not to partake of meat. Those who ask this question should know that a bhikkhu obtained his food by begging, going from house to house and accept whatever is put into the begging bowl. They have become bhikkhus by renouncing worldly possessions.

There is a saying that beggars cannot be choosers. The bhikkhus accept whatever is put into their begging bowls and consume whatever is offered to satisfy their hunger. This obviously could be the reason why the Buddha did not lay down a Vinaya Rule about meat eating. The Buddha, however, has laid down a few precepts to be observed by the bhikkhus and lay persons. The first precept is to abstain from taking the life of another. This can also be interpreted as ensuring the 'Right to Life' of all living things and develop Mettha to all living beings.

The Buddha in all His admonitions (subject to the Vinaya Rules) did not ban or approve as such but explained the cause and effect. His 40 years of admonitions was to help his disciples to develop his wisdom in order to understand the profound Dhamma, to realize the Four Noble Truths leading to the attainment of Nibbana.

To those who keep asking this meat- eating question, I like them to read Menaka Ghandhi's articles in The Island, a true lover of all animals who condemns without reservation all meat- eaters, how she finds even the odour of the meat-eater sitting next to her when traveling, so unpleasant and unbearable!





Embassy in Rome launches website to assist public

January 18, 2011, 9:55 pm

In its bid to strategically reach out to the Italian and Sri Lankan public in Italy, the Embassy of Sri Lanka in Rome, on Thursday, launched its official website - www.srilankaembassyrome.org. Sri Lanka's Ambassador in Rome Hemantha Warnakulasuriya, unveiling the website, said the web facility would provide a hitherto unmet need from Rome to access Consular related information in real time and provide a critical window to Sri Lanka for both the Italian and Sri Lankan public in Italy. The Website of the Embassy in Rome provides information on Sri Lanka's relations with Italy, Albania, Cyprus, Greece (Hellenic Republic) and Malta, as well as cultural, investment and business-related information. Capturing the important developments in Sri Lanka, the news segments provide useful information on political and economic developments in the country.

Importantly, the website will now serve as a one-stop source for all Consular-related information, including guidelines, advice and applications forms for new passports, visas, birth registration, powers of attorney, police clearance certificates, inclusion of children's names in passport, citizen certificates and host of other matters of regular interests. A key feature is the availability of information and application forms in an integrated manner without having to visit multiple websites to obtain authoritative information. Currently, made available in English, this information is to be made available in Sinhala and Tamil, too, soon.

For the first time, applicants for new passports can now check on-line the receipt of their new Passports and availability for pick up, thus, negating the need to call over and check receipt of their passports.

The website provides the visitor guided access to a host of other websites including that of the President of Sri Lanka, government Ministries and Departments thus providing a critical window to Sri Lanka from Rome. An Italian version of the website is also expected soon.





Trinity win record 8th outright win

January 18, 2011, 10:11 pm

A fighting century from Hashan Perera on day-two could not stop Trinity College from stretching their winning streak to a College record of eight outright victories as they chased a target of 72 runs successfully in just 9.5 overs to record a five-wicket victory at Asgiriya Stadium, Kandy yesterday. Trinity reached the target for the loss of five wickets. The win sealed Trinity's eight outright victory of the season, which is a College record for Trinity according to their officials. Trinity officials said that the eighth consecutive outright victory erased an 89-year-old record. According to officials Trinity's record for most number of wins in a raw was seven, established in 1922.

Meanwhile, Trinity's record for the most number of outright victories for a season also had been seven which had been equalled several times. According to officials, Trinity had scored seven outright wins in a single season in recent times in 2002, 2008-09 and in 2009-10.

Off-spinner Aravinda Premaratne bagged eight wickets and scored a valuable half century for St. Anthony's College to record a nine wickets victory over St. Sylvester's College in their Under-19 encounter which ended at Police Grounds yesterday.





Food Security and right to food: Govt.'s first, second and third priority

January 18, 2011, 5:12 pm

By Dr. Mervyn D. De Silva Former Director/Advisor, Ministry of Plan Implementation

The increased frequency of newspaper reports and telecasts of raging out bursts of angry food rioters protesting all over the globe, took my mind back to an observation made by Jules Michelet, the great historian of France and the French Revolution, that the nation state would never be understood until a terrible book had been written- the history of hunger. This realistic thought was later antithetically reiterated by his contemporary, Brillat Savarin, with the famous words, "the destiny of nations depends upon the manner in which they are fed", a principle that goes even further back in time to Aristotle, who said that the motive force of civilization depends upon a secure food supply.

Today, even after dozens of decades have passed by since these observations were made, the 21st century world is still unable, or more unwilling, to heed these pragmatic admonitions. With all the advances that man has made in every scientific discipline and branches of technology, the glaring spectacle of deaths because of starvation and malnutrition, the fate of millions of fellow humans across the globe, does not fall short of being an utter scandal. With all of modern science and technology available, material, and knowledge, and the capability to physically and technically produce food at affordable process for all in every nation, food continues to be inaccessible to many millions. The inescapable conclusion that then can be arrived at is, that political institutions, and, the public philosophy which informs them seem to be deficient in a sensitivity and have failed in their responsibility and duty towards these helpless unfortunate brothers and sisters. In short, the food problems is far more an economic, socio-political paradigm problem rather than and agronomic problem.

No matter at what stage of economic development and industrialization a nation may find itself in, or, how high its per capita income may be, food and shelter are, and will always be, the two most basic needs for maintaining a frugal decent life. While this priority ranks among man's need does not ever change, have the governments, particularly of the developing countries, focused on a strong and determined strategy to ensure a sustainable access to food to stave off hunger; or, provided resources for growing food to those who must now go without. Food and Agriculture must be placed in the front seat of economic development, not tourism, not export agriculture, not ports, harbours, and air ports, not the leisure/pleasure and sports industries because, the coming generations will not tolerate a denial of basic needs. A comprehensive 10-year plan for food and agriculture must be in place as a matter of urgency.

On the 10th of December, 1948, that is, 60 years ago, the universal declaration of human rights adopted by the general assembly of the United Nations proclaimed:- "that everyone has a right to a standard of living adequate for health and well-being of himself and of his family, including, FOOD, clothing, and shelter........" The declaration further demanded that member nations should "by progressive measures, national and international......secure their universal and effective recognition and observance". In order to show their commitment to the declaration, many countries, often clouded the issue by measuring progress in the elimination of hunger and, measuring in aggregate terms such as national income and available food calories per person, which says precious little or, nothing about the existence or, prevalence of hunger or poverty. Hunger, judging from all that we see in violent protests, not those who suffer it in the silence of their homes, is the most pressing global problem of human survival and is gnawing at the very foundations of socio political stability. It has now reached our own shores.

I do not think, contrary to a recent proposal, that the President should be treated as an oracle and we should have him preside over a task force commissioned to deal with a sector that spreads over a multiplicity of complex scientific disciplines. It will be more appropriate and productive for him to appoint a small independent minded task force of agro-technologists, well informed, experienced, and who understand with insights into the whole sector. An army of officials under the glare of TV cameras with the President speaking and the others listening is a lame substitute. The suggested task force will, of course, report to the President, but they in turn will have and coordinate several other task forces appointed by the Ministry of Agriculture in conjunction with other related Ministries.

The economic policies adopted in the domestic agriculture sector and an increase in rural and small-scale farmer poverty has emerged. The Presidential Task Force, or better an Agricultural Commission, if appointed, would re-visit the development activities of the entire gamut of the sector and replace present policies where necessary, and evolve newer approaches doing away with many moribund institutions, and dead unproductive boards. To increase food production especially of food crops of nutritious value, fortify and adequately fund agricultural research, agricultural extension, education, improve marketing and processing and have projects to reduce rural unemployment, a comprehensive plan is needed.

The frictions and struggles in which the have-nots are embroiled in with the ruling governments (Tunisia, Greece, Egypt etc) is the writing on the wall for all governments. The warning of what happens when there is inaction is well brought out by Edgar Johnson in his foreword to "A Tale of Two Cities" by Charles Dickens.

"This was the foreboding of a Tale of Two Cities, sounding like a dreadful drum with deepening vibrancy through the accelerating rush and rising tumult of the fierce revolutionary violence it unfolded. If men turned their eyes from the miseries of emaciated toilers in mines and mills and factories, deafened their ears to the cries of exploited children, closed their hearts to sickness and poverty, there would be a hideous retribution. Wrongs would generate wrongs – blazing into all the horror of revolution, engulfing both innocent and the guilty in a sacrificial incandescence. Later readers of the novel have not always realized the degree to which Dickens appealed to a troubled social conscience of a fear and social turmoil". Hope our political leaders will.





Former IGP Frank de Silva on the massacre of 600 policemen

January 18, 2011, 9:46 pm

By Shamindra Ferdinando

Former IGP Frank de Silva, in a letter to The Island, denies a claim made by an e-mail doing the rounds that he was responsible for the surrender of 600 policemen to the LTTE, which massacred them in cold blood in 1990. He says he became IGP long after the incident. Full text of his letter: My attention has been drawn to a spate of e-mails which allege that I, as the Inspector General of Police, was responsible for the incident in which 600 policemen were killed by the LTTE after they had been asked by me to surrender to the LTTE. The e-mails allege that I, the then IGP Frank De Silva, had given the order to the policemen to surrender, based on directions given to me bay the Political Authorities. I was IGP long after the date of this incident.

The author of the emails is apparently a former police officer who escaped from the scene of the killing of the 600 policemen and offers to give evidence before The LLAR Commission.That the author of the e-mails is willing to testify that the then IGP Frank De Silva is responsible for the killings of these policemen, apart from other evidence he volunteers as to the complicity of others.

The allegation in the e-mail is false. I was not the IGP at the time of the surrender, only much later. I was not involved in this incident in any manner or in any capacity. I did not receive any instructions from higher political authorities nor did I issue orders to the 600 policemen at Batticaloa to surrender.

The false allegation can also be mischievous, calculated with other intent. The authenticity of the author may not be clear.

I have been urged then to make this clarification by several friends, relatives and members of the public. Their concern is that I should have benefited in my career advancement having sacrificed wantonly the lives of 600 innocent police officers and my reputation among those circles. They do not even countenance the thought. Surely not...? Would you...? They ask. There are several who are disturbed on hearing of the e-mails. This is an era in which false and calculated e-mails are being thrown around. This instance is one such.

The LLAR Commission may not pursue the matter nor call for my evidence. The Commission may think this is not within their remit. Lessons to be learnt from this incident are at other forum."





Fielding was a key part for our World Cup success –- Mendis

January 18, 2011, 9:14 pm

by Rex Clementine (Continued from yesterday)

In the last part of a three piece interview, former Sri Lanka captain Duleep Mendis elaborates how the country's victorious 1996 cricket team pushed themselves to achieve excellence in fielding. Mendis says that the senior group of players opted for more fielding sessions during and before the World Cup campaign to compensate for the team's Achilles heel – bowling. Mendis also provides an insight into some of the players who played key roles during the World Cup campaign and the mistakes that were made during the defence of the World Cup title in 1999, when he was the Chairman of Selectors. Mendis' involvement with the World Cup is unique as he has been actively involved in the first eight editions of the World Cups from 1975-2003 as either a player, coach, manager or Chairman of Selectors and in 2007 when the tournament's ninth edition was played, he was the CEO of Sri Lanka Cricket.

Question: During the 1996 World Cup you held the dual role of Manager and Chairman of Selectors. One aspect that stood out throughout that successful campaign was the excellence the team showed in fielding. Could you please elaborate on the emphasis that was given to fielding?

Duleep Mendis: Actually, given the amount of training we put in for fielding the other sides were shocked. It was amazing. The best part was how the players reacted when the importance of fielding was stressed. When you stress on certain aspects and put pressure on the players you need their corporation as well. That is when leadership comes to the fore. When the leader cooperates, others also follow and the job of the management becomes that much easier. But if the leader is not backing that decision and if he's not cooperating, then it becomes an issue. But in 1996, we had a situation where the players always wanted to do more. They knew that the team was doing well because of the improved standards of fielding and they wanted to keep improving. In every game, we saved about 20 to 30 runs. That's a hell of a lot in a One-Day International. You often lose ODIs by five or 10 runs. So, in those circumstances, to save 20 to 30 runs in every game was absolutely crucial. What we had in 1996 was a brilliant fielding outfit.

Question: Aravinda looked so determined in the 1996 final in Lahore. Is that the best you have seen of him?

Duleep Mendis: I would say throughout that World Cup he batted brilliantly. People only talk of his batting, but just see how well he bowled and the impact he made on the field. When we were struggling to get wickets he got us those crucial breakthroughs and he assisted Arjuna throughout, bringing all his expertise into play. That combination worked very well for us. We could afford to lose the openers early in the search for quick runs because we knew what Aravinda was capable of. Anyone who saw in that tournament would accept that it was the best of Aravinda we saw.

Question: What was Arjuna like as a captain?

Duleep Mendis: He did extremely well and Arjuna's biggest strength was that he understood the game very well. He knew what exactly was required of some players at different times. It's important for a captain to know what you can get from different players at different times. He had been with the team for a long time and he knew what the players were good at.

Question: Guys like Arjuna and Aravinda speak highly of the role Asanka Gurusinghe played in that tournament. What was Asanka like to manage?

Duleep Mendis: Unfortunately, no one talks of Gura when our World Cup win is talked about. But he was amazing. Leave out the World Cup, but some of the innings he has played for us have been superb ones against good sides in tough conditions. No one talks of Gura because his batting style is different. That's why not many people talk about him. When Aravinda gets a hundred, people will start talking about it because it's a brilliant picture to watch. Gura will put the score on the board, but not many people will talk about it because of his style. But he's an effective player. To the outside world he may come out as a tough character, but actually he was a very mild person and a jovial character. He was a superb number three batsman as well.

Question: Talk us through the finishing stages of the semi-final against India in Calcutta. Was it scary?

Duleep Mendis: We wanted to finish the game properly. But unfortunately, the trouble started in one corner and Match Referee Clive Lloyd had to come and make a decision. We knew that the crowd through sheer disappointment threw stuff given the way India were losing. We wanted to finish off the game badly because it was a superb display by us in all three departments. It was disappointing that the game had to end that way, but at that time we knew that the team was performing really well and when you go through a World Cup tournament you face difficult times and then you realise that you can handle anything and any situation. You are not going to have an easy walk right through in World Cups. When you overcome those tough situations you get confident that you can do well. In 1996, one ambition the team had was to beat Australia. We badly wanted to meet Australia and beat Australia. That is one ambition all players had. Winning that World Cup meant a lot for Sri Lanka.

Question: The team got a hero's welcome when you returned home. What was that feeling like?

Duleep Mendis: Oh, we were over the moon. Sunil Wettimuny (Played in the 1975 World Cup) was the captain of the flight that brought us back home. We were not scheduled to come on that flight, but the boys were keen to come on that flight itself and they accommodated us as there was some room in that flight. It was a fabulous feeling to come back home.

Question: You were the Chairman of Selectors in 1999 and the defence of the title didn't go well at all, as the team crashed out in the first round itself. What went wrong?

Duleep Mendis: In 1999, there were obviously mistakes made. We went on too long with some of the seniors. It has happened not only to us, but to West Indies as well and it has just started to happen to Australia. At times you tend to go a little bit too far with some of the seniors and as a result some of the youngsters are kept out from coming through. Unless you do it properly and systematically, you are going to fall into trouble. It is always good to have a combination of youth and experience. You cannot have a side full of young players. There should be some senior players who are performing to guide them as well.

Question: Many feel that Sri Lanka missed out on a golden opportunity in 2003. After restricting Australia to 212 in the semi-final, would you agree that Sri Lanka should have gone on to win that game?

Duleep Mendis: We had a good side, but a few things didn't go right for us that day. It's a game that we should have won and it was a very unfortunate day for us as we did quite well on the field but couldn't finish things off.





Infant, father killed in road mishap

January 18, 2011, 9:44 pm

A three-month-old infant and her father were killed in a tragic accident that occurred on the Kandalama tank bund yesterday. The child, her father and mother were riding a motor cycle which crashed into a CTB bus and a land master tractor on the banks of the Kandalama tank and the child had been thrown from the mother's lap into the tank. The bus had been stopped due to its brakes failing to function after traveling through the flood waters. The youth and residents of the area, with the assistance of police, had found the body of the infant some hours later. The father died on the spot. The mother had been injured in the accident and was rushed to Hospital.

The dead had been identified as Gunatilake Herath and his daughter Malmi Dahamsa. Police had taken the bus driver into custody. Dambulla police is conducting further investigations.





Merchant Credit take plum

January 18, 2011, 10:11 pm

Slow medium pacer Heshan Tillakaratne bowled one mesmerising over to change the entire result of the game and take Merchant Credit of Sri Lanka to a convincing 49-run win over Dimo in the Ceylon Cold Stores - sponsored 'Elephant Lemonade Cup' MCA centenary year Division 'D' 50-over League Tournament final, concluded at the MCA grounds, Colombo last Saturday (Jan. 15).

When Dimo skipper Milinda Wickramasinghe and Sri Lanka prospect Dinesh Chandimal were building up a good partnership for the third wicket for Dimo, Tillakaratne was brought into bowl the 15th over in which he got rid of both the settled batsmen in the over's first ball (Wickramasinghe) and the fifth (Chandimal).

Dimo in their run chase was keeping up to the required run rate (3.6), they were losing wickets at regular intervals.

Once their middle-order batsmen Anushka Polonnowita (21) and Nalinda Kurukulasuriya (25) got out, the writing was on the wall as they folded up for 130 runs in the 38th over giving Merchant Credit their first Mercantile cricket title along with the handsome 'Elephant Lemonade Cup.'

The other three special awards offered, based on performances in the league round matches, went to Ronil Cooray from Hayleys Group (best batsman), Roshan Wijenayake from Abans Group (best bowler) and Kanchana Kannangara from Hayleys Group (man of the tournament).

Ceylon Cold Stores PLC sponsored the tournament for the 8th successive year. Their Regional Manager Sujeewa Menikdivala and Asst. Brand Manager Nadeena Fernando graced the opening ceremony while Regional Manager Deeptha Perera, the guest of honour, and Vice President and Head of Beverages, Chandima Perera, the chief guest, graced the post tournament awards presentation which followed the final.





Thurstan Aquatic Club to organise All-island Inter-school swimming

January 18, 2011, 10:12 pm

Thurstan College Aquatic Club (TCAC) has made all arrangements to conduct an All-island Inter-school Beginners Swimming Championship on February 5 and 6 at the Thurstan College Swimming Pool Complex in Colombo. This inter-school championship has been approved by the Ministry of Education and will be conducted in association with the Sri Lanka Aquatic Sports Union (SLASU). The objective of organising such an event is to encourage and achieve more competitiveness in local swimming, developing and popularising swimming in the schools and stressing the importance of swimming in many aspects of life.

The unique feature of this event is that only beginners are given priority. Anyone who has not obtained 1st, 2nd or 3rd place in a swimming championship, organised by the SLASU and the Sri Lanka Schools Aquatic Sports Association will be permitted to participate in the competition (the rule does not apply to Aquatic Development or Provincial Meets). The Swimming Championship will be conducted under the laws of the above associations.

The event will consist of two championships for the boys and girls categories. We expect over 1,500 students from government, private schools and affiliated organisations in the island to participate in this event.





Thai firms eyeing Sri Lanka

January 18, 2011, 9:53 pm

The Thailand Trade Representative (TTR) will support small and medium-sized Thai construction companies seeking business opportunities in Sri Lanka, which requires investments of US$23.52 billion from now until 2017. TTR officials will join 10 to 15 Thai construction companies in Sri Lanka from Jan 19-22 as part of its effort to encourage Thai companies to become more active abroad. Kiat Sittheeamorn, the TTR president, said Thai construction companies are highly competitive in international markets because they have decades of experience in construction technology for high-rise buildings, infrastructure, and housing with attractive designs and decorations.

However, smaller Thai companies are still weak in competing for projects abroad so they need the government to help reduce obstacles, such as providing bank guarantees.

He said Sri Lanka needed to develop infrastructure such as expressways, highways, railways, water supply systems and housing projects.

Major projects in the next six years include 569 kilometres of expressways and highways estimated to cost $18.84 billion; widening of 4,900 km of existing highways at $1.33 billion; $185 million to reduce traffic congestion; $1.27 billion for rail transport, $1.9 billion for water supply, $526 million for power plants, and the development of 890,000 housing units.

Sri Lanka also aims to increase foreign tourists to 2.5 million in 2016, resulting in rising demand for hotels to an estimated 35,000 rooms from 15,000 now. Their construction would be worth around $186 million.

Sri Lanka's Board of Investment offers incentives to investors in small-scale infrastructure with a minimum investment of $500,000 such as house construction, tourism projects and water supply. They include zero income tax for five years, followed by a low 10% rate for two years. After that, a 20% concessionary tax will be applied for the project.

Builders of large-scale infrastructure such as expressways, highways, airports and water services costing between $12.5 million and $100 million can enjoy income tax holidays of between six and 15 years, depending on the scale of investment. This is followed by a 15% preferential tax rate. Foreign investors can buy land with conditions and can lease land for 35-50 years.(Bangkok Post)





Does entrepreneurship help in implementing strategies?

January 18, 2011, 6:16 pm

From Yesterday By Sudam Chandima Kaluarachchi, Director – College of Banking & Finance, Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka (IBSL)

Entrepreneurship and Implementing Strategies

First, it is vital to understand the concept of strategy implementation. Strategy implementation is basically the managing administrative tasks needed to put strategy into practice (Stoner et al.,2002). The process of converting insights into actionable business propositions consists of several steps. It ranges from implementing strategies to monitoring implementation.

(1) Simplify the proposition into a small meaningful statement, clearly indicating the expected change

(4) Obtaining commitment and getting a strong sense of resolve from others in the organization

(5) Managing resistance, managing the change

(6) Monitoring implementation

The above stages run though the management process, starting from planning through to controlling through organizing and leading of tasks and related resources in implementing strategies. The above process talks about the environment, values and resources of an organization. A key premise in the creation and early development of organizations is the importance of the role played by individuals, structured process and environments (Williams & Tse, 1995). The individual is viewed as being responsible for influencing the organization's direction, particularly through infancy to the growth stage. Strategic planning in a small, entrepreneurial company is usually done by the individual entrepreneur. Bhide (1994; cited in Thompson, 1999) argues that entrepreneurship deals with risk in strategy creation or formation with a quick initial screening using a careful, but limited, analysis to evaluate the quality of an idea, but then it stays flexible throughout the process of implementation.

Therefore, the level of support the entrepreneurship provides in carrying out the administrative tasks in terms of structure, systems, style, staff, skills, strategy and super-ordinate goals needed to put strategy into practice is important to achieve an effective and efficient strategy implementation. Super-ordinate goals refer to guiding concepts, values and aspirations that unite an organization in some common purpose (Stoner et al.,2002).

The concept of entrepreneurship has contributed vastly in theory on implementing strategies. Various studies have found that the personality and the management style of the entrepreneur and his or her perceptions of the opportunities and threats in the external environment all significantly affect the strategic decision making (Williams & Tse, 1995). In the literature it is fond that small organizations can be influenced dramatically by the type of individual in determining strategies and structure. There are various typologies that deal independently with each environment, structure or strategy, each of which has been shown to influence the nature of entrepreneurship. Many of the research efforts have suggested that a relationship between entrepreneurship and strategy is likely to exist. The success of any business is dependent upon the ability to find a valuable strategic position, whereby the company's resources, competencies and capabilities are deployed and managed to meet and satisfy the demands and expectations of key stakeholders. The sustained success requires that positioning is strengthened constantly in a dynamic and competitive environment, and changed, perhaps dramatically, from time to time. This represents continuous improvement on one hand, and discontinuous change to a new competitive paradigm on the other hand (Thompson, 1999). In implementing strategies, entrepreneurship supports to clarify which strategic competencies from a long list of generic competencies can make a real difference (Thompson & Richardson, 1995; cited in Thompson, 1999).

Miller (1983) as cited in Zhao (2005) argues that entrepreneurship represents organizational behavior. The key elements of entrepreneurship include risk taking, pro-activity and innovation. However, Slevin and Covin (1990; cited in Zhao, 2005) have argued that three elements above are not sufficient to ensure organizational success. They maintain that "a successful firm not only engages in entrepreneurial managerial behavior, but also has the appropriate culture and organizational structure to support such behavior".

The Environment-Values-Resources (E-V-R) Congruence Model

The E-V-R (Environment-Values-Resources) congruence model provides an ideal framework for examining how entrepreneurship helps in achieving organizational effectiveness and success through successful implementation of strategies (Thompson, 1999). Thompson (1999) further says that what entrepreneurs achieve strategically can help foster enterprise in a wide range of organizations. The environment is the source of opportunities and threats, the external key success factors. Resources constitute strengths and weaknesses, strategic competencies and capabilities which either match, or fail to match, environmental needs. Key factors vary significantly from industry to industry and from market to market, and consequently there can be no common formulae for successful strategic positioning which the entrepreneurship would facilitate. Moreover, the matching of environment and resources (E&R) should be managed in a dynamic environment. It is the values and culture, which the entrepreneurship can influence, of the organization which determine first, the effectiveness of the current match between E&R, and, second, the ability and will of the organization to change and strengthen this matching. Entrepreneurs and entrepreneurial managers obtain resources and exploit organizational competencies and capabilities to seize or even open windows of opportunity in their selected environments for better positioning. They are opportunity driven. It is, therefore, an implicit assumption that a truly entrepreneurial organization creates E-V-R congruency and sustains the match with measured strategic change (Thompson, 1999). It is widely acknowledged that entrepreneurship is not confined to any one type of business. Some build business from nothing, invariably with determination and commitment. These can be profit seeking business; equally they can be community based initiatives by "social entrepreneurs". One key challenge of entrepreneurs is dealing with the strategic and structural changes required with growth. Lack of entrepreneurship would lose the direction and momentum of business. The entrepreneurial behaviour is a ubiquitous need for all types and size of organizations.

Conclusion

The importance of entrepreneurship as a pattern of behavior or a style of management has risen drastically today due to economic changes, globalization and increased competition, advancing technology and new opportunities and market niches, which demand efficient and effective implementation of strategies to create a competitive edge (Daft, 2006). In many countries, entrepreneurship is the engine for job creation and innovation. In the real competitive world, many organizations find themselves unable to compete due to the lack of suitable vision to understand the change happening in the environment and implement strategies accordingly. This inability, which is often seen as a problem of management, has demanded leadership, more increasingly entrepreneurship to meet the complexity and turbulence of the environment within which managers need to implement strategies. Opportunity recognition is at the heart of entrepreneurship. Both opportunity seeking behavior (entrepreneurship) and advantage seeking behavior (strategic management) are necessary for wealth creation. These two are complementary and entrepreneurship facilitates the implementation of strategies in the dynamic environment.





The Ambassador of the People's Republic of China in Colombo Yang Xiuping handed over a cash donation to the Minister of External Affairs, Prof. G.L. Peiris as relief assistance to the victims of the recent floods in Sri Lanka, at the Ministry of External Affairs,on Tuesday. Minister of Economic Development Basil Rajapaksa was present at the ceremony. The Ambassador stated that the donation was a goodwill gesture of the staff of the Chinese Embassy in Colombo. The Ambassador conveyed condolences of the Government of China to those who lost their lives and expressed hope that the victims of the floods will recover soon. At the request of the Economic Development Minister the Ambassador stated that she would look into the possibility of providing roofing material to the affected families to re-build their homes.

Thanking the Chinese Ambassador for the donation, Minister Peiris said that China has always extended its assistance to Sri Lanka whenever the country was in need of goodwill and assistance. He thanked the People's Republic of China for its friendship and support.





US$ 300 minimum wage targeted for Bangladeshi workers

January 18, 2011, 6:15 pm

By Porimol Palma, The Daily Star

Dhaka will negotiate extending the tenure of job contracts to five years and setting a minimum wage of US$300 for its workers in the Gulf countries. A Bangladesh delegation will put forward these demands to the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) states, home to majority of 7 million Bangladeshi migrants, at a two-day conference beginning on Tuesday in Dubai of the United Arab Emirates (UAE). The meeting will particularly focus on the recruitment practices and the rights of the foreign workers.

"Most of our workers go to the Gulf states on two to three years' contract. During this tenure many cannot even recover the sum they spend for going abroad," said Kefayet Ullah, deputy secretary to the expatriates' welfare ministry. "The average salary of Bangladeshi workers is $200 now, which should be raised to a minimum of $300," added the deputy secretary, a member of the delegation.

If these two demands are met, our workers' rights could be ensured to a great extent, mentioned Kefayet Ullah.

Bangladesh recently made similar demands to visiting Malaysian officials in Dhaka, sources said.

Expatriates' Welfare and Overseas Employment Secretary Zafar Ahmed Khan is leading the Bangladesh delegation which left for UAE on Sunday.

"There is no minimum wage for the Bangladeshi female domestic workers," Zafar told The Daily Star.

"Most workers do not even have insurance and medical facilities. As a whole, our presence in the Gulf labour market is not focused yet. We shall raise these issues in the conference," added Zafar Ahmed.

Abu Zafar, consul general of Bangladesh embassy in Dubai, said the issue of extending the job contracts to five years is very important.

"The UAE is far ahead among the Gulf nations in terms of protecting labour rights," he added.

The Bangladesh delegation will also hold meetings with the UAE employers and Bangladeshi businessmen in the UAE on these issues, stated Abu Zafar.

Indian, Sri Lankan and Filipino workers are usually paid 20 to 30 per cent higher than the Bangladeshi workers, said Abdul Alim, a recruiting agent.

According to him, the difference is mainly because of better communication and negotiating skills.

Labour and human resources ministers and officials from the Asian labour recruiting and exporting countries are attending the event.

The UAE is hosting the event in coordination with the International Labour Organisation (ILO), International Organisation for Migration (IOM) and the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights.





Education: Equity-equality confusion

January 18, 2011, 5:14 pm

By E. L. Wijemanna

Our much respected versatile writer on social problems Mr. R.M.B.Senanayaka's has commented on some sections of my feature 'Kannangara Reappears in 2011' in the last 'Sunday Island'(9th.Jan.) in today(Wed.12th.) Island's Midweek Review under the heading in Education is a Chimera'. Despite my very old age (90yrs.) I owe it to the public to clarify the position on some issues raised as I see them. I am really shocked that a person of his caliber has equated 'equity' with 'equality' for, that is what he has done when he quotes my saying 'schooling to the public equitably and efficiently' and rushes to give the above quoted heading to his article critical of what I have said. The Pocket Oxford Dictionary gives 'fair, just' as the meaning of 'equitable'. Could it be a strong dislike in Mr.S for the just and fair distribution of anything that prompted this howler! It is a shame that he has also drawn in the name of our revered leader C.W.W.Kanangara too accusing him of putting to the masses the impossible dream namely of equalizing education. This is really shocking—how on earth could a person of Mr.S's caliber and experience have missed what has been repeated in our country millions of times namely the crass social injustice that was there in the Dual System of English schools for the elite and the Vernacular schools for the masses which C.W.W.K. sought to correct. Does this not support the surmise I have made above regarding Mr.S's mindset!

I see in Mr.S's piece towards the end a second howler even worse than the one referred to above. This is when he says 'they do not know what education is for education is essentially the sort of thing to which the concept of equality does not apply'. It is clear that he has not seen the difference between the provision of education by the appropriate authorities on the one side and the assimilation of education by the recipient on the other. What he says certainly holds true for the recipients of education. But the heart of our debate is not the recipient wing of education but the provider wing of education. The concept of equity, not equality I stress, on the side of providers of education is today almost a part of the holy Bible!. In fact the domain of Education when viewed from the activities perspective has three clear sectors, 1.Deciding on Objectives, Designing, Planning and Procuring, 2.Implementing, and 3.Evaluating the Outcomes of 1 &2. In this equation the independent variables open for manipulation are almost all in 1 and 2. That is why most of the debates in Education relate to these two ranges of activity. In the extract above it is to 3 that Mr.S alludes. Obviously he has completely missed the bus!

Anyway to get back to the topic in hand Mr.S is forthright and his position is neatly summarized in his own words 'Education is a Positional Good and this is inevitable'. The concept 'Positional Good' perhaps needs a word of clarification. This refers to totally unfettered free marketing conditions that generate a quality-wise steep curve on the supply side. Barber Saloons strike me as a good example. At Kirulapone where I live there is one very richly furnished barber saloon with a prestigious name that charges Rs.500 for a common men's haircut while a few hundred yards away there is a tiny room with a barber who charges only Rs.75 for the same task but of course under very different conditions. There are a few others falling in between. All have their own clients. Haircut although a service needed by all men has no regulations affecting it. I am sure Mr.S does not envisage something akin to this for Education.

Here we are dealing with Education for the child in his formative years i.e. Schooling. The U.N. Charter recognizes Schooling as a Basic Human Right of every child. In our own Constitution it is laid down as such. Natural Justice and fair play in operations is the hallmark of B.H.R. This means every Sri Lankan child has to have access to the Schooling service Access here implies meeting two conditions namely, proximity of the service and adequacy in regard to the quality of the service. These have to hold for every child. Here a brief review of Schooling as a service would be helpful. In the early stages of human civilization there were no schools. Preparation of the children for their adult roles was a part of the socialization process which in turn fell largely on the family with strong support from the local community. With advances in our civilization came the complexities of vocational specialization which in turn rapidly accelerated with advances in science and technology. Preparation of the child for his adult roles could no longer be adequately handled by the family and the local community. It is to meet this need that the school and formal education surfaced.. Adult roles, while becoming complex also started grading themselves. and this brought into Education/Schooling an allocation or selection function in addition to its main legitimate function of educating all children. Between these two there is quite a complex structural conflict and this poses some acute problems to the designers and planners of Education.. .

Mr.S's position appears to be that because human beings differ widely in their innate talents it would be in the best interests of everybody to allow them to move at their own paces untrammeled by any common programs which generally favor the less talented at the expense of the more talented. Let us examine the practical implications of this.

That human beings differ widely in their innate talent is a fully accepted truism.

But there are a few snags that go with it. Firstly innate human talent is said to be evenly distributed among all social groups. Secondly innate talent needs a favorable environment to blossom out. Thirdly there are some late developers. Fourthly talents are multi-faceted. Lastly all human beings are talented although to varying levels and varying interests. All these factors have their implications for the programs that seek to foster and nurture the talents of the upcoming generation.

From all this it is clear that Education programs have necessarily to be very comprehensive.





His holiness Sri Sri Ravi Shankar in Colombo for Sambuddha Jayanti

January 18, 2011, 9:59 pm

The Art of Living Foundation in Sri Lanka, in association with Tharunyata Hetak, will commemorate the upcoming 2600th Sambuddha Jayanti (2600 years of Lord Buddha's enlightenment) in Colombo on 21st January 2011, at the Sugathadasa Indoor Stadium at 10.15 a.m. The mega event is open to the general public.

His holiness Sri Sri Ravi Shankar, the world renowned spiritual leader and founder of the Art of Living, will grace the occasion. The Sri Lanka chapter is organizing Bodhu Bhakti Gee by 2600 singers.

The mega choir will include youth, students, corporate executives, music and cultural groups. For the first time in the world 2,600 singers are expected to come together from across the island to perform the traditional Bodhu Bhakti Gee.

His Holiness Sri Sri Ravi Shankar, founder of the Art of Living Worldwide, says "Spirituality and music, together, can uplift people and bring enthusiasm. For a stress-free life, you have to embrace both these aspects. The aim is to come together to uplift consciousness - through music, meditation, togetherness and celebration".

International delegates, venerable priests of the Buddhist clergy, leaders of various faiths and tourists from several countries are expected to attend this sacred world event.

The official logo for the event was launched on January 4, 2011 by Colombo District Parliamentarian Tilanga Sumathipala and the International Director of the Art of Living Foundation Swami Sadyojathah. The logo designed by art historian and painter Nishan Wimalasuriya signifies the sacred sounds flowing through the conch-shell (Valampuri) to spread the richness of Buddhism in all directions as represented by the lotus (nelum).

"The 2,600 singers' programme primarily aims to invoke the blessings to people across the world for peace, health and prosperity through the beautiful rhythm of our Bhakti Gee", says Dr. H. B. Tamitegama General Secretary, The Art of Living Foundation / Sri Lanka. "This event is also aimed at promoting our traditional Bhakti Gee and to give budding talented young singers an opportunity to be a part of this international event.





Letter : Damage to Sri Lanka cricket

January 18, 2011, 9:29 pm

They couldn't meet the venues deadline. But they were in a great hurry to name the Sri Lanka squad for the 2011 WC, 12 day's before the deadline. There seems to be a conspiracy against Sanath and Vaas. Why did they drop Sanath and Vaas? Is it due to Sanath's poor form in the recent past? I agree that he went through a bad patch. Such bad patches are quite common. For example, Mahela, Dilshan and Sanga. Now his bat has spoken again! 97 was the answer to Aravinda. Dilhara Fernando, who is in the 15 man squad went for 86 runs in his 10 overs.

If someone is critical because of his age it is not the appropriate criteria as far as Sanath is concerned. Just because Aravinda could not play after 35 years, it doesn't apply to Sana. He is an extraordinary player. All those lazy cricketers failed to maintain top fitness while Sanath continued to remain as fit as a fiddle. That's called commitment. I would say that he is the most physically fit player in Sri Lanka even at his age.

By not picking Sanath, Aravinda probably wanted to show us that he is a straight forward selector who never bows to any political pressure.

Sanath is an MP. Was that the reason he was left out?.

What the selection committee did to Vaas too, is not right. How can anyone in his right mind say that Vass is not suitable to be in the team? He is in tremendous form with both bat and ball. Aravinda's argument that Kula is better with the new ball is not acceptable. Vaas bowled in England and in recent domestic tournaments with the new ball. Compare the figures of Kula and Vaas. Figures speak. Vaas should have been in the bowling line up.

Aravinda is the best batsman Sri Lanka has ever produced. No doubt about it. But did Aravinda provide the inspiration, pride, and the glory which Sanath achieved. No, he did not!

I am certain that most Sri Lankans want Sanath to be in the team, together with Vass. They worked hard and they deserve their place. They are match winners.

Sri Lanka cricket, you have selected a team who are accountable to 20 million people.





Rajarata Chronic Kidney Disease: Unidentified etiology

January 18, 2011, 5:06 pm

By Nalin de Silva

We at the Chinthana Parshadaya became interested in the Rajarata chronic kidney disease unidentified etiology (RCKDunet) about four years ago, as we were worried about the patients and also due to the spread of the disease in the so-called border villages in the Rajarata. Of course, today thanks to the President and the heroic soldiers there are no 'border villages' though the NGO and other pundits who used these terms still occupy the centre of the 'intellectual landscape' thanks to the hegemony of the western Christian modernity. These pseudo intellectuals who are nothing but imitators who have not produced a single new concept or a theory have to be sent to the boundary from the centre, and I can see that the writing is on the wall even if they do not realise it.

The western medicine men in the Chinthana Parshadaya first suspected cynobacteria but it was found that it was not present in sufficient concentrations. The Chinthana Parshadaya did not have sufficient funds nor laboratory facilities to continue with the work and we had to be mere observers or rather receivers of information from those who were actively involved with the "research" connected with RCKDunet. However, recently some of us promoted ourselves from being passive observers to active "researchers" and formed a group in the Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya under my leadership. Though I am not a western biologist, a western medicine man, not even a western Mathematician or a Physicist, by virtue of being the Dean of the Faculty I have been invited to be the leader of the group. There are western Biologists, Chemists, western medical practitioners (from other universities) and a western Mathematician (for Mathematical modelling) in the group and we have already obtained some preliminary results that are not in agreement with results already published by others.

As the terms unidentified etiology imply the causes of the RCKDunet are unknown to western medicine. Though diabetic patients and those with high blood pressure could end up as chronic kidney patients, Rajarata patients do not suffer from these ailments in general. The unidentified causes have to be identified, and we as a group are not merely interested in the identification of the causes alone as we would like to find a cure for this chronic kidney disease from which our innocent poor people in the Rajarata or Vev Bandi Rajya suffer. Our work is multidisciplinary in the true sense of the word and we will come out with more details as we proceed. At present it would be sufficient to say that we are somewhat different from other groups involved in western science.

Our approach is holistic, and we do not separate the sources of water from the environment and confine ourselves to an analysis of water found in wells and Vevas in the region. The Vevas of the Sinhalas are not mere tanks or reservoirs and we have a good knowledge of the Vevas from writings of late Mr. Mudiyanse Tennakone in the Divaina about twenty five years ago. Since then we have accumulated knowledge from other sources, Oh! Not from western sources, and we know the involvement of the Nagas in the construction of the Vevas. The Naga symbols found at the Vevas not only indicate the fact that they are associated with water and that they protect the Vevas but also the fact that they were involved in the construction of these massive structures.

The late Mr. Mudiyanse Tennakone had taught us about vev thavulla, poshana pradesha, kulu Vevas and their functions, nivun (or twin) Vevas etc. Recently we came to know of the trees that were planted in a systematic way to make sure that the water in the veva or the well was purified. Remnants of this habit could be found in planting of kumbuk trees near wells.

Our group did not find Microsystis, a cynobacterial species in well water in the areas affected by RCKDunet. However, we have found traces of Green Algae, and according to the western Botanists in the group there is a possibility for these algae to be identified as blue green algae mentioned by some others. We also do not have evidence to conclude that cadmium is the cause of the RCKDunet.

Then where do our findings lead us after the preliminary investigation. As I mentioned above ours is a holistic exercise and we are of the opinion that Arsenic and Mercury found in water and soil in Rajarata where the RCKDunet has been spread and kivula (hardness) of water are two of the main causes of the disease. Then there is another important factor that is now lacking in Rajarata. These are the trees that were planted systematically in the surrounding areas of the vevas. The roots of these trees were involved as a kind of filters and the removal of these trees during the last few decades have caused havoc as far as the chemical constituents found in the water.

The western practitioners in our group have found similarities between arsenic poisoned patients in other parts of the world and the Rajarata Chronic Kidney patients. The Rajarata patients are different from kidney patients found in rest of the country and our group is investigating into these similarities and dissimilarities. We are also startled by the large numbers of arsenic poisoned patients in Bangladesh and would like to find out the role of the genes in spreading the RCKDunet in Rajarata.

However, we are mainly interested in finding a cure and our team has considered some plants and their fruits and nuts in this connection. We are guided by what I would call the Borupana Thesis, I first heard from the late Borupana Vedamahaththaya of Rathmalana. I know that some pundits will object to it citing the so-called scientific methods and research methodologies, but all that I know is that there is no scientific method as such and genuine research cannot be conducted according to so called methodologies. The uninitiated western scientists may read 'Against Method' by Feyarabend as a first step.

In any event Borupana Thesis mentions that a cure for any disease can be found from the area in which the disease is spread. Recent discovery by western scientists that there are life forms based on Arsenic is a good example in this connection. The Rasa (mercury) Vedakama found among the Sinhalas and others also points in the same direction. However, we are not proposing to introduce Arsenic or Mercury as a cure but to have a cure based on certain plants that could be grown in the area. The soil that has the potential to destroy life also has the ability to maintain life is the maxim behind the Borupana Thesis. Finally I would definitely say that RCKDunet is a result of introduction of western Christian modernity that has changed the life patterns of the Rajarata farmers.





Equality in education: Opportunities and not Outcome

January 18, 2011, 5:09 pm

By Usvatte-aratchi

Mr. R. M. B. Senanayke commonly writes good sense in your newspaper and so did he again on 12 January 2011. It is well established that one cannot expect equal outcomes in education whatever the initial conditions. However, that is no reason why a civilised society in its wisdom does not attempt to equalize , as far as it is within their power, opportunities for those obtaining education. I would go further and judge the degree of civilization in a society by the effort it makes to equalise these opportunities. I would consider any society that does not effectively offer equal opportunities for girls as for boys to go to school and excel as less than civilized. That applies among castes, ethnic groups or whatever other divisions that a society divides its people into. It is not enough to have statutes in the book; those statues must work in the lives of ordinary people. The current drive for fee levying educational institutions has a great bearing on this debate. The experience in India where, this experience has shown its consequences is instructive to all of us. (See Social Scientist, September-December 2010)

This is in no way to assume that there will be equal outcomes. For outcome depends on several very strong, almost determining, factors over which society has no control or to assume control over which would be to cease to be civilised in other respects. First, all children bring with them inborn abilities determined by their genetic makeup. The genetic makeup one is born with is a complex random outcome of combinations and is not determined by the skin colour of the group or the language spoken by the group to which one is born although skin colour is determined by genes that one inherits. That genetic makeup contributes in great measure to what sorts of abilities a child has. The knowledge we have now is that these abilities are distributed at random in human populations. There is no way that society can determine the distribution of these abilities, the horrors of eugenics in the early 1900s notwithstanding.

Secondly, how a child performs at school depends a great deal on the family that is he is born to. Parents who have incomes adequate to live in homes near good schools have an advantage over students who have no convenient access to such schools. Children with parents who read, who have books and newspapers in their homes, talk to children about books and new knowledge have an advantage over children who do not enjoy those conditions. One of the principal reasons why children from our plantations do not generally do as well as children from others habitations is that they live in culturally poorer homes. One of the reasons why children from families of politicians end up as politicians is that, apart from the driving incentives of obviously effortless enormous wealth that accrues to their parents, they grow hearing that political crap day in and day out from their parents. The reason that you find children of school teachers do so well at the 5th standard scholarship examination is that they live in homes which espouse that cause effectively. The reason why one finds so many children from families of Brahmins and upper castes in India and so few from the lower castes (SC and ST and Muslims) is that learning and teaching were the major pre-occupation of Brahmins. In 1882, in Presidency College in Madras, Brahmins comprised some 82 per cent of students.

Little wonder that the strongest anti-Brahmin movements sprang up in Madras. The gotra names of Brahmins betray their pre-occupation with learning and teaching: Pandit, Sastri, Acharya, Chaturvedi, Chattopadyaya and Gangopadhyaya. That black people often do less well than whites is because blacks are poorer, both materially and culturally. One can multiply examples of this kind without end. There is one way that society can influence this condition. Kannangara was wise to start hostels in Central Schools that he put up to precisely to provide 'homes' to children from culturally deprived homes. And it worked. Ivor Jennings was right to insist on a residential university in Peradeniya. And it worked.

The same principle was put into effect in West Arica where children were housed in school hostels because their homes were not conducive to learning. That made secondary education in much of Africa hugely, almost prohibitively, expensive making for the slow spread of education in those lands.

Thirdly, the school which a student attends matters. Apart from the advantage of opportunities to make acquaintances who can be helpful later in life, a good school provides facilities which a not so good school may lack. However, to take central schools as a synonym for a poor or bad school as Mr. Senanayake does (and many others do) when he contrasts them with Royal College, Colombo is due either to prejudice or ignorance. A central school with a good principal and a few good assistant teachers often rivals Royal College, Colombo, in academic excellence as evidenced by public examination results. They posses teams that are to be beaten in cadetting and in some athletics events and games, increasingly.

We have seen many such central schools in our life. Kuliyapitiya under my much admired friend Premachandra Dissanayake and the present principal A.A.W.Pathiraja is as a good a school, not excepting Royal College,Colombo, as you can find anywhere in the country. My old school in Hikkaduva is not in that category. Many distinguished scientist teaching or researching in institutions overseas come from Central Schools.

Central schools played a crucial role in the development of drama, music and writing in the 1960s do so to date, unexcelled by any other group of schools in the country. Four major writers 1960 to date came from Kuliyapitiya Central School of that time: W. A. Abeysinghe, Somaratne Balasuriya, Tilak Chandrasekera and JInadasa Danansuriya. H.H.Bandara who composed some of the music for Maname and more for Sinhabahu came from Ginigathena Central School. Jayanta Aravinda who composed music for several of Sarachchandra's plays, including Pemati jayati soko, came from Central School, Piliyandala. Many who sang in the chorus of these and subsequent plays learnt music in central schools. Jayalath Manoratne, perhaps the most gifted playwright, director and actor today, came from Poramadulla Central School, as did many others.

Public Schools in Britain (really private schools), moulded on principles elaborated by Mathew Arnold in mid-19th century dominated cultural and bureaucratic life in Britain well into the 20th century as Groton started in 1884 by Endicott Peabody and six other private schools modelled on British public schools dominated cultural and pubic life in the Eastern seaboard of US. There was no truly comparable set of schools in this country. Schools teaching in English set up after the Buddhist and Hindu revival in early 20th Century did put out students who carried a certain set of values which had much in common with the cultural ethos of the country. Central Schools in mid-20th century exerted a different kind of pervasive influence in the cultural life of the country. In that sense, for the first time in this country, Central schools, began to exert a pervasive influence over the major part of the population in this country.

It is not true that all that has happened in central schools have been to the good of the country. The entire education system, schools, universities and their management have come under the strong influence of alumni of central schools. Who will honestly speak well of that influence? The bureaucracy has been debased partly by them. Yet it is a pity that unwise politicians and pliant bureaucrats do not understand the significance of these realities when they joined the rest of the herd to take the central school system apart. Forget the new jargon masquerading as innovation. Go back to first principles and give a decent education to girls and boys, in central schools or not in far flung places of this small country.

Teachers matter, matter a great deal. Everyone speaks about the poor quality of teachers now and the older among them extol the virtues of teachers of yore. Quite apart from nostalgia and selective memory of these people (I meet some excellent teachers, both school and university, now), look at the relative wages of teachers, then and now. 1950-1960 the average wage of a graduate teacher was roughly 4 times ($600) the average income ($150) in the country.

Today, according to the Central Bank, the average income of a person in the country is close to the income of a graduate teacher in mid-career. If your system of rewards is so different and therefore incentives are so skewed, how do you expect the response to be the same? The leadership of the country behaves as if incentives do not matter except in relation to them. They would grab as much of public money for themselves but expect the civil service including teachers to consist of bodhisattva.

Given 4 million students, some 5 million or so parents in 10,000 schools with 250,000 teachers the combinations of students, parents, schools and teachers are almost endless, so outcomes. Mr Senanayake is perfectly correct to tell us that equality of outcome in education is a chimera (something hoped for but illusory or impossible to achieve). But the provision of equality of opportunity for all to strive for that goal in civilised societies must not be chimerical.





Canada offers condolences to Lankan flood-affected

January 18, 2011, 9:52 pm

Canada's Minister of Foreign Affairs, Lawrence Cannon yesterday offered Canada's condolences to the people of Sri Lanka following widespread flooding and landslides, which have resulted in loss of life and extensive damage. "On behalf of all Canadians, I offer condolences to the families and friends of those who lost their lives," said Minister Cannon. "I also extend our sympathies to all those affected by the devastating flooding." Canadian citizens in the affected areas who require emergency consular assistance should contact the High Commission of Canada in Colombo at +00 (94-11) 522-62-32. Alternatively, they may contact Foreign Affairs and International Trade Canada's Emergency Operations Centre by calling collect 613-996-8885, or by sending an email to sos@international.gc.ca.

Relatives and friends in Canada seeking information on Canadian citizens believed to be in the affected areas should contact the Emergency Operations Centre by calling 1-800-387-3124. They may also send an email to the address above, states a press release from the High Commission of Canada in Colombo.





Short term alerts issued on China and India

January 18, 2011, 6:07 pm

* Goldman Sachs shuns the BRICs for Wall Street * Goldman Sachs has issued a short-term alert on China and India as inflation rears its ugly head, advising clients to rotate into Wall Street and Old World bourses as a safer bet over coming months

By Ambrose Evans-Pritchard

"We're not as tactically positive on the BRICs as we have been," said Tim Moe, the bank's chief Asia-Pacific strategist, referring to the quartet of Brazil, Russia, India, and China. "To be frank, we may have held on too long to our overweight position in China last year. We have decided that discretion is the better part of valour and have tactically reduced our weight. Asia is not in the sweet part of the cycle. The longer-term picture of Asia outperforming the US is taking a breather," he said, speaking at a Goldman conference in London. The cooling ardour for China is significant shift for the bank that invented the term BRICs and has been the cheerleader of the emerging market story over the past decade.

India is an even bigger worry, with yawning twin deficits, and overheating visible on all fronts. The nation's central bank warned this week of "surging inflation". "India's current account deficit is running at a record pace of 4.1pc of GDP and it is 100pc funded by short-term portfolio flows, which cannot be relied on indefinitely," said Mr Moe, describing Mumbai's bourse as "crowded".

Goldman insists that the longer-term super-boom remains healthy in both the BRICs and a broader group of countries, or "N-11", led by South Korea, Indonesia, the Philippines, Turkey and Egypt.

Pension funds and insurers in the rich countries have invested just 6.5pc of their $60 trillion (£38 trillion) of combined wealth in new markets, leaving them vastly misaligned against the geography of world growth. "We are only in the first innings of an undeniable structural story over the next two decades," said Mr Moe.

Japan's state-run GPIF, the world's biggest pension fund with $1.4 trillion in assets, is only now acquiring a change in its mandate allowing it to venture outside the mature economies.

First, however, China must extricate itself from a credit boom. Mr Moe said the outcome is hard to judge since Beijing is resorting to opaque instruments to fight inflation – 5.1pc and rising – rather than relying on transparent instruments of interest rate rises and currency appreciation.

Goldman expects China to rebound strongly in the second half of the year, distancing itself from the ultra-bearish views of those such as hedge fund star Jim Chanos betting that Beijing will prove unable to engineer a soft landing from its property bubble.

The surprise for 2011 will be a torrid recovery in the US, with growth of 3.4pc to 3.8pc, as the country confounds critics and averts a post-bubble "Lost Decade". Surging earnings will push the S&P 500 index of US stocks to 1500 by the end of the year.

Even Japan will outshine China, pulling out of its deflation trap, with earnings growth of 23pc this year and 22pc in 2012. Kathy Matsui, Goldman's Tokyo strategist, said Japanese equities may be the best way to play the Pacific growth story since the average price-to-book ratio is 1.0, compared to 1.9 for China and the rest of emerging Asia.

She said Japanese companies are sitting on a "Mount Fuji" of cash reserves worth $867bn to be unleashed on share buy-backs, dividends and a takeover blitz once the deflation danger recedes.

Jeff Currie, Goldman's commodity guru, said global equities will beat resources for the next few months. Gold may yet push yet higher to $1,650 an ounce before peaking but vertigo sets in at these giddy levels. "Gold is pricing sovereign default risk but we see the macro-environment on a much more solid footing," he said.

Mr Currie told clients to remain "long gold" until the US Federal Reserve winds down quantitative easing and prepares for a tightening cycle. There is a near-perfect correlation over time between negative real interest rates and rising gold prices.

With real rates near minus 1pc in Europe, minus 2pc in the US and minus 3pc in the UK, a wash of global liquidity is fuelling the bullion boom – along with purchases by the central banks of China, India, and Russia – but watch out when the worm turns.

The moment that OECD central banks start to raise rates in earnest could switch the process into rapid reverse. Mr Currie has compiled a chart of real gold prices based of Bank of England records dating back to 1260, when Pope Alexander IV was cranking up the Inquisition and Henry III was trying to reverse the Magna Carta in England.

It shows that prices are the highest they have been at any time for the last 440 years, other than a brief episode in the early 1720s, and the parabolic spike of 1980, which collapsed abruptly.

The "Soviet bloc" of CCCP – crude, copper, cotton, and platinum – offers a more enticing balance of risk and reward. "All of these commodities are supply-constrained. The world can't produce enough of them, and nor can China." Mr Currie said.





Second consignment of relief asistance arrives from India

January 18, 2011, 9:58 pm

The Government of India on Monday has dispatched the second consignment of a US$ one million relief package to Sri Lanka for the flood-affected people in the North, East and Central Provinces, a press release issued by the Indian High Commission in Colombo said yesterday.

An Indian Air Force IL-76 aircraft carrying the second shipment of 21 tonnes of relief items has arrived at the Katunayake airport.

The aid material included sugar, pulses, milk powder, around 20,000 ready to eat meals, 20,000 water purifier tablets and one thousand mattresses. The consignment was handed over to the Ministry of Disaster Management.

The first consignment of about 25 tonnes arrived in Sri Lanka on January 14.





Rs.500 million squandered on LG polls preparation – UNP

January 18, 2011, 9:47 pm

*National funds wasted at people's expense

*Staggered polls will increase costs further

by Zacki Jabbar

Having spent Rs.500 million in preparation for the forthcoming Local Government Elections, the Mahinda Rajapaksa regime wants to conduct it only in certain councils, while the others have been postponed, the UNP said yesterday. General Secretary of the UNP Tissa Attanayake, addressing a news conference in Colombo, said that national funds were being wasted to obtain political mileage, while the masses were suffering due to the unbearable cost of living. The need of the hour was to control expenditure, not take hapazard decisions which unnecessarily result in increased administration costs. The end result would be a further rise in taxes, which the working class will have to fork out, he said.

"This government has always been guided by political expediency, regardless of the expenses. Staggered elections would increase costs way above Rs.500 million." The UNP's campaign for the local polls, he said, will be more grass roots level centered, with not many big rallies being held.

Rampant corruption in public institutions and the Rajapaksa regime's record of misusing State property during election campaigns would be highlighted, Attanayake said.

"In keeping with our party policy, a greater percentage of youth and women will be given nomination to contest the elections."

Leadership changes, he said, were the last thing on UNPers' minds and all were focused on working hard to win the polls.

"Changes if any would have to be effected through the UNP Working Committee and its parliamentary group. However none of us are thinking on those lines.Our main objective now is to defeat the government, which has duped the masses time and again with a host of false promises",









48th Senior Nationals : Combined Universities grab level-II title

January 18, 2011, 10:08 pm

A. Paranithasan played a leading role netting 34 points for the Combined Universities to guide them to a 68-61 victory over Kandy District in the grand finale of the level-II of the 48th Senior Nationals basketball held at the Trinity College basketball courts, Kandy last Monday (Jan. 14). Combined Universities led at half time 28-21. Pivithuru Samaraweera chipped in with 14 points for the winning team while Randiv Seneviratne top-scored with 24 points for the losing team.

In the consolation final played earlier, after leading 30-8 at lemons, Jaffna District beat Kurunegala District 60-42. R. Prasanthan top-scored with 23 points for the winning team while Nalaka Kumarasinghe netted 13 points for the losing side. (MP)





Shares end up 0.7-pct

January 18, 2011, 6:01 pm

Sri Lankan stocks closed down Tuesday with active retail trading and low value counters dominating the market, brokers said. The All Share Price Index closed at 7,058.33, up 0.72 percent (50.27 points) while the Milanka Price Index of more liquid stocks closed at 7,248.20, up 0.11 percent (8.16 points) according to stock exchange provisional figures. Turnover was 3.4 billion rupees. "There has been an absence of significant foreign investment in the market the last few days," Thakshila Hulangamuwa of Asha Phillips Securities said.

Biggest contributor to turnover was Singer Finance with the stock closing at 50.60, up 1.40 with over 12 million shares done. Commercial Bank closed at 276.90, up 1.40 rupees and Hatton National Bank closed at 399.40, up 1.80 rupees.

John Keells Holdings closed at 292.90, down 0.20 cents and Aitken Spence closed at 187.50, down 1.20 rupees. There was a large crossing of Asiri Hospital shares of 41.7 million at 9.00 rupees and the stock closed at 9.00, up 0.20 cents.





Govt – TNA talks: some cautionary aspects

January 18, 2011, 6:58 pm

The fact that the Government and the TNA have commenced talks as regards the ethnic issue and related matters should be welcomed most heartily. The TNA is now like a captive who is being freed from captivity, the Damoclean sword of LTTE overlordship over it having been removed by the Govt. There is now the probability of a reasonable solution to the problem. There are some road blocks that need to be cleared for that purpose by the TNA, considering the part it played, or more accurately perhaps, was forced to play for its own safety, by the LTTE. In that context, some cautionary matters require mention for note by Govt. negotiators before a final agreement is reached. It requires the TNA's cognizance too. First, of course, is that any discussions must be predicted on the TNA renouncing once and for all the demand for Eelam and like equivalents. This has to be a prior condition, being the first road block. To date, it has not formally done so, though from various statements made by some of the members, one could infer it has. But formal renunciation is mandatory.

Second, the TNA must formally disassociate itself from the diasporic antic styling itself the "Trans National Govt. of Tamil Eelam" (or some such protension!). The Tamil Diaspora's fantasies may reach for the skies but the TNA must come down to political firma' from like fantasies if it wishes to have meaningful talks with a Govt that so crushingly ended at Nandikadal, the grotesque Obscenity that spawned these fantasies.

Third, the TNA must give up the demand for North and East merger. It must concede that this provision was part of several others imposed on this country at gunpoint by an Indian Govt, than attempting to impose an Indian version of the "Monroe Doctrine" by threats of sheer brute force. No fact forced under military duress can be considered legal & enforceable.

The TNA's erstwhile position that it fully accepted the LTTE as representing the Tamils has now, of course, withered and died more or less automatically with the demise of that synthetic representative of the Tamils. Yet, the TNA must concede that its position was a false one (the LTTE never having tested the legitimacy thereof) and now formally must recede from that position.

As apology from the TNA to the Tamil people for its unstinted and absolute support for the LTTE, throughout its 'Reign of Terror and Duplicity' and for the LTTE depriving the Tamils of their voting and other rights (the cutting off of the hand of an old woman who defied the LTTE's order to boycott the 2005 elections come to mind) is perhaps due and worth considering.

And where apologies are concerned, even though belated, President Mahinda Rajapaksa needs to and must extend an apology on behalf of the entire country, apart from the Sinhala community also, for the unforgivable atrocity, nay obscenity of July 1983, committed on the Tamil community. So far as I know, no Govt. since then, had neither the guts nor the decency to do so. The UNP which allowed that carnage to continue for days when forceful action by the then President J. R. Jayawardena if taken immediately the violence began, would have nipped it in the bud, has not seen it fit to make amends in that direction to date.

The LTTE, of course, surpassed such horrors many times, in many ways, but that's not the issue here. Recently the current Japanese Premier extended an apology, long denied, and though belated, to the Chinese, and I believe to the Korean people for the atrocities his past Govts had inflicted on them over some 60 years ago. One recollects that even the Papacy, in the person of Pope John Paul 11, uttered a 'Men Culpa' so to say for the horrors of the Papal Inquisitions, tortures, executions for alleged heresies and what else, though belated by hundreds of years. Pope Benedict apologized the other day for the carnal sins of some of the Church's priests. So an unqualified and sincere apology by the President on behalf of the Sinhala people and the country would be a spur to future attempts at solving the ethnic issue.

At the same time, the Tamil community must realize (as several of them have indeed recently acknowledged) that "Black July 1983" was not a deliberate, planned program by the Sinhalese as a community, but rather violence carried out by a faction led by a UNP minister who seemed to have put a pre-arranged anti-Tamil plan into operation, having waited for a pretext to do so. His goons carried it out ruthlessly and the Govt. let it continue till it suddenly found it was going beyond humanitarian and political endurance. Many Sinhalese risked life and limb in rescuing, sheltering and helping besieged Tamil families. This too must be acknowledged ungrudgingly by the Tamil community, as many have done, but too few nevertheless.

It is realized, of course, that many, mostly the UNP crowd, the middle class, upper middle class sections, the social circuit crowd, those with almost a pathological hatred for any aspect smacking of the UPFA/Rajapaksas and what is left of a Ranil Wickremasinghe/UNP 'aroma', as well as the pro-LTTE sections, such as NGO/INGO people, the once "Peace Fronts" like the NAWF, will treat some of the items mentioned above as "chauvinistic". This, of course, is understandable. Any view protective of the interests of the majority community, however reasonable and warranted, is "chauvinism" in their eyes. Minority elements canvassing their positions are not "chauvinists" to them but fighters against oppression by the majority, liberators in fact; minority is never "chauvinistic" to them, however unreasonable their demands.





The Sri Lanka-India joint venture tyre brand CEAT, recorded a 49 percent growth during the years of 2009 and 2010 by catering to both export and domestic markets. This exponential growth was achieved in a crisis period because the company deployed the right people at the right place, its Managing Director Randeep Narang said. "In the year ending 31 March 2010, CEAT increased its profit after tax by more than five times over the previous year on sales of Rs 5.4 billion. Export revenue grew by 96 percent and continues to be steady in the current year," Narang said, unveiling the new logo of the company recently. Its new logo depicts a vibrant and colorful new visual depicting in what the company calls an evolutionary rebranding that reflects the rapid growth it has achieved in Sri Lanka over the past 24 months.

Narang said their domestic sales grew by 25 percent during the last few years. With this proposition the company was able to secure market leader positions in almost all categories in the tyre market, he said.

The company's export revenue grew by 96 percent and continues to be steady in the current year, during which the company penetrated new markets like Egypt, Siriya, Cambodia, Nigeria Singapore, and Dubai, Vietnam.

Narang said that CEAT market share in the Truck and Light Truck, Three-Wheeler and Radial segments have grown to 59 percent, 39 percent and 18 percent respectively, making it the single highest brand in these categories.

CEAT is a joint venture between RPG Group of India and Kelani Tyre- Sri Lanka. The company operates three manufacturing units producing truck, light truck, radial, and motorcycle, three-wheeler and agriculture tyres and employs a work force of 900 people.





Guest house owner allowed bail in pollution case

January 18, 2011, 9:55 pm

by Cyril Wimalasurendre

KANDY: Kandy Chief Magistrate Lalith Ekanayaka ordered a guest house owner, charged with causing environmental pollution, to furnish cash bail in Rs 2,000 and personal bail in a sum of Rs. 100,000. The suspect, N. U. Liyanage of Talwatta on the Hewaheta Road in Kandy was charged by the Kandy police for causing environmental pollution by failing to properly maintain the septic tank of his guest house.

Liyanage was prosecuted by IP Uwindasiri, OIC of the Minor Complaints Branch of the Kandy police headquarters under the relevant clauses of the Environment Act. The Chief Magistrate, while ordering bail, severely warned the suspect that he should by permanent solution prevent pollution of the environment.

The case was put off for January 24.

On a previous date the Chief Magistrate warned the suspect that if he fails to take steps to prevent environment pollution, the Court would be compelled to order the closure of the guest house.





Act now to defuse food crisis

January 18, 2011, 12:00 pm

By Upali Cooray Former General Manager CWE

Your editorial of Jan. 15 gave a timely warning to the government of the impending shortages and high prices of food on account of the torrential rains in most part of the country, which had devastated the lives of many a poor family, destroyed more than half a million acres of paddy land with the just- ripening Maha crop, damaged irrigation tanks and the road network. This editorial is very appropriate in shaking some of the policy makers who are marking time till the fire catches up to douse it, just like in the recent past. It was only a week ago, writing about rising cost of living, that I wrote," preventing fires is far better than dousing fires." The 2004 Tsunami, though devastating, did not affect the agriculture sector at all. Therefore, Sri Lanka was able to overcome the difficulties pretty soon but the recent floods have been so devastating that they have destroyed the regular agriculture output of Maha season beyond the abilities of our farmers to recover. The loss of livelihood and inherent indebtedness, lack of seed material, would have to be addressed by the authorities before the farmers think again of cultivating. Besides, the next major Maha crop of paddy would come only next year. The Yala harvest in the latter part of the year is totally inadequate to meet the country's demand. So, it is evident that the country is in imminent danger of unprecedented soaring prices of agricultural commodities, especially rice, in the next few months. In the case of the main staple food of the masses, rice, selling prices have been controlled by the government but this control regime is likely to make the black market to thrive even more when adequate rice stocks are not available in the country to maintain price stability.

The government already is battling the rising cost of living by importing even chicken and eggs. It is getting the assistance of the Army to distribute vegetables in a limited area on account of the rising vegetable prices, which is a result of the stranglehold by middle men. The prices of other essential food items, such as, wheat flour, sugar, lentils, have been rising continuously due to world trends affecting production. If one goes by the manner in which chicken and eggs were imported; one can presume that the same ad hoc pattern would continue without any objectives being achieved. Around 200 tons of chicken are lying in cold storage due to lack of demand. It is claimed by the CWE authorities that the chicken expiry date is one year ahead and there need not be any worry. Whom are they going to mislead. Have the authorities worked out the cost of cold storage for one year and added it to the cost of chicken? Who is going to eat chicken kept months in cold storage? One can be sure that the CWE will very soon dispose of the stock at an immense loss to the government. The only beneficiaries of this deal are likely to be the commission agents and others involved in the deal.

It is no secret that there is a strong pro- agriculture lobby within the government. While no one can find fault with a government doing its maximum to increase agricultural output, the objectives of the said lobby are far from improving the agricultural output or bringing about the betterment of the farming community. They are a politically powerful cartel which now envisages a windfall from soaring rice prices. They will leave no stone unturned to see that any steps taken in advance to tackle the imminent food shortage, especially in rice, are annulled.

Why hasn't the government been able to break the vegetable cartel centered on the Dambulla economic centre? The center is a political stronghold no one would dare to challenge. For what are these economic centers for? There are five of them with no substantial contribution to the national effort except for Mudalalis and political strongmen. Some more are being planned. The vegetables grown in Nuwara Eliya sometimes are transported to Dambulla and sent back to Nuwara Eliya market for resale at a higher price. Such is the stupidity of this system of distribution.

The government in 2008 established with lot of expectations the State Trading (Co-operative) Wholesale Company to replace the now defunct CWE on a proposal made by the President to the Cabinet with a capital of US$10 million. The objective was to ensure food security and fair prices of commodities in the country. This institution has now become a non- performing, white elephant, not being able to perform to achieve its mission.

The per capita consumption of rice which was 100 kilos in 2007 has gone up to 114 kilos in 2010 on account of wheat flour prices going up and the country produced 4.1 million tons of paddy with 114% self sufficiency in rice. This year's paddy crop is very likely to be half of or less than that of 2010 and this is where the crisis could occur.

It is not only the local food situation that is adverse; the international situation is also not at all favourable, where imports of staple foods are concerned. High rice and wheat prices are worrying officials and economists and beginning to hit consumers - especially tens of millions of poor people - harder than many can remember. The causes of the shortages and high prices are diverse, and vary from country to country. They include natural disasters or adverse weather; high fuel prices, which add to transport costs; hoarding and smuggling of rice and wheat to take advantage of higher prices across national borders..

According to the FAO rice export price update for January 2011, the 25% broken raw white rice, which is the variety affordable and therefore in most demand locally, is fetching an export price of U.S$ 486 per metric ton fob for Thai origin, U.S$457 fob per metric ton for Viet Nam origin and U.S.$ 431 fob per metric ton for Pakistan origin. India has increased the minimum export price to discourage exports and no exports are taking place at present. If the cost per ton at the port of loading is worked out at the lowest rate of 431 fob; the cost per kilo in Sri Lanka rupees approximately works out to Rs.48 /- . The landed cost with added freight charges, port charges, handling and transport charges on a duty free basis, therefore, would not be less than Sri Lanka rupees 60 per kilo. The controlled selling price of white raw rice is also Rs.60 per kilo. Therefore, an importer cannot have any margin under the price control to cover at least any overheads.

Only around seven per cent of the world's rice supply is traded internationally, but it is a critical amount for any country facing a shortage because rice is also a political commodity. Worldwide, economists are worried that the diversion of agricultural land and certain crops to biofuel production is cutting into grain and cereal production for human consumption. China and Bangladesh are facing shortages of rice. In this scenario, it is imperative that the Sri Lanka government plans out the options available to tackle a major crisis before it blows up on its face. The Trade Ministry doesn't appear to be watchful on this unprecedented predicament of the government and the nation at large. As far as I can see, following options can be considered immediately because a lead time of at least six weeks is required in properly planned procurement of rice.

The first option I feel should be to see whether any government in Asia is willing to supply at least a minimum of 30,000 tons of white raw rice on a humanitarian basis to overcome the immediate difficulty. Thailand supplied rice on a humanitarian basis to Pakistan during devastating floods few months ago. This option is a certain possibility. However, this has to be done at the highest level. The stock arrivals can be scattered for arrival of 10,000 tons every month. The first shipment should arrive by end February.

The second option would be to call for an open worldwide tender so that all possible sources are given an opportunity to bid. The usual tender requirements, such as bid bonds and performance bonds, should be compulsory requirements. The bids should be evaluated by a technical committee and should be approved by the Cabinet appointed tender board. The imports should be on a duty free basis.

The third option is to allow any trader to import rice on a reduced duty so that competition among importers will ensure supplies from the lowest sources till such time local cultivation bounces back.

Another mitigating step that can be done is to reduce the duty on wheat grain for a temporary period till the situation improves or to allow wheat flour imports at concessionary rates for a limited period.

It is quite obvious that these proposals will not go well with the local agriculture lobby and nationalist elements, which includes ministers, millers, and traders whose interests are self - centered. The situation demands that such pressure is totally ignored and steps be taken to prevent a calamity which could embarrass the government towards the Sinhala and Hindu New Year. The practice of rushing imports at the peak of a crisis, which is a norm, benefits no one other than vested interests because the stocks never come on time and the method of purchase is highly questionable.









Japanese boost for flood relief efforts

January 18, 2011, 10:01 pm

Sri Lanka emergency relief supplies worth Rs. 26 million from the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) handed over emergency relief supplies, such as tents and sleeping mats. Minister of Disaster Management, Mahinda Amaraweera, received the consignment, which would meet urgent humanitarian needs of the displaced in districts worst affected by recent floods.

JICA's assistance follows a request made by Sri Lanka and is funded under its Disaster Relief Programme.

Over 1,000,000 persons were affected by recent floods and heavy rainfall mainly in the Ampara, Anuradhapura, Badulla, Batticaloa, Kandy, Kegalle, Mannar, Matale, Monaragala, Mullaitivu, Nuwara Eliya, Puttalam, Polonnaruwa, Ratnapura, Trincomalee and Vavuniya districts while over 3,000 shelters were completely destroyed and some 170,000 uninhabitable. Thousands of acres of cultivated land and the fishing and livestock industries in these districts have also been affected.

"With this initial support to communities affected by recent floods JICA hopes to contribute to the swift implementation of relief operations at the disaster sites. JICA will also coordinate with relevant government authorities and humanitarian partners to assess future needs of these people who are now internally displaced and living in makeshift camps or sheltering with families and also of livelihoods on which the floods have had a major impact", says Mr Takuya Otsuka, Senior Representative, JICA Sri Lanka.

JICA has supported the Government of Sri Lanka since 2004 to expand and maintain the disaster management structure by strengthening organizations dealing with disaster management, providing equipment, dispatching Japanese experts, producing technical guidelines and through capacity building initiatives under several technical cooperation and grant aid projects.





Shehan returns to form with blistering knock

January 18, 2011, 9:20 pm

By Reemus Fernando

Opener Shehan Fernando came to form with a blistering 165 runs inclusive of 14 fours and 10 sixes as he combined with skipper Denham Perera (126) to put up a second wicket stand of 189 runs for St. Peter's College to post 371 for eight wickets declared in their Under-19 match against Holy Cross College which started at Kalutara yesterday. In reply, Holy Cross were 68 for three at close as spinner Julian de Zilva picked up three wickets.

Leg-spinner Sathira Dileepa picked up five wickets to restrict St. Servatius' College to 98 runs before Maris Stella College posted 234 for nine wickets at close on the first day of their inter-school match which began at FTZ Ground yesterday.





'University students do not need army discipline'

January 18, 2011, 6:54 pm

I was quite amazed to read in the newspapers that it is being planned to send new entrants to the universities to army camps to teach them discipline. The discipline found in the army is based on a hierarchical system of authority and punitive action when that system is violated. This is definitely not the kind of discipline that is needed in the university. While law and order is a requisite for any form of civilized living, the discipline needed in the university is that which is based on self discipline, the kind of discipline that comes from having a focus, from having a goal in life. Universities are institutions dealing with knowledge and the primary objective of all students in the university should be the development of their mental faculties and the pursuit of knowledge. It is not possible to achieve this without freedom, especially the freedom to question accepted authority. What we need to teach our students is that freedom without self discipline will lead to chaos and that they need to exercise their freedom in a manner that will not undermine the freedom of others and destroy the very existence of the university.

To achieve such an academic culture within our universities is a challenge that the university staff should be prepared to undertake. It is especially difficult today when most of the students coming in to universities are the products of tuition classes and have not gone through the character building experience of being a member of a tight knit school community.

However, one thing is certain; it cannot be achieved by sending them off to an army camp for three weeks.





Floods won't cause major hindrance to mine-clearing operations

January 18, 2011, 9:43 pm

By Shamindra Ferdinando

The government says that the recent floods in the Eastern Province and some parts of the Vanni region will not cause a serious delay in the on-going mine clearing operations. Tom Hockley, Acting Manager of the UNDP Mine Action Project, said that the National Mine Action Centre (NMAC) felt that the flooding wouldn't significantly affect the overall mine action programme. Hockley said that there were some minor areas, where clearance activities could be delayed for a limited time until the moisture content in the soil allowed for safer clearances. Hockley was responding to a query by The Island following his consultations with the NMAC. Asked whether mines could have been shifted due to floods, the UN employee said: "In Sri Lanka, past experiences have shown that the risk of explosive remnants of war moving due to rising water has been low. However, it is important for everyone working near contaminated area to remain vigilant and for the regional mine action offices to conduct some additional contingency planning."

A senior military official told The Island that the Army Engineers didn't see any major problems due to flooding. The official asserted that if needs be, the Army could conduct a fresh survey to assess the situation. In spite of concerns expressed by some, troops assigned to mine clearing operations would continue their task, military sources said.





UN focuses on flood-hit, war displaced

January 18, 2011, 9:56 pm

The UN will use a forthcoming visit by Ms. Catherine Bragg, UN Assistant Secretary General and Deputy Emergency Relief Coordinator to highlight humanitarian needs in the wake of the recent floods, also to check on those displaced due to the war. Her three-day visit begins today (Jan 19)

According to a UN statement issued in New York on Tuesday (Jan. 18), the Brag's mission to highlight the humanitarian needs in Sri Lanka and to advocate on behalf of the most vulnerable due to floods was in addition to the ongoing humanitarian concerns in the north, where 20,000 internally displaced persons (IDPs) remain in Government-run camps since the end of the conflict in 2009, and those who have returned to their areas of origin were struggling to rebuild their lives.

"The mission will be an opportunity to emphasize the commitment of the United Nations to the people of Sri Lanka during this major disaster and to rally donors to support and expand ongoing national efforts to respond to the growing humanitarian needs," it said.

During her mission, Ms. Bragg will visit the north of the country where thousands have returned following the end of the conflict, as well as visit the worst-flood affected areas in the east.

She will also meet representatives from the Government, donors, and aid agencies.





Rains easing, wind speeds no threat

January 18, 2011, 9:47 pm

by Dasun Edirisinghe

The Meteorology Department yesterday said that the rainy weather conditions, being experienced in the North, East, North Central and Central Province, would ease. Speaking to The Island, meteorologist Meryl Mendis said that the speed of the winds was also reduced and posed no further threat. "The highest rainfall, 24.4mm was reported from Puttuvil followed by Batticaloa 10.5mm and Colombo Fort 14.4mm," Mendis said adding that light showers would be experienced in those parts due to the North East Monsoon.

Over one million persons were affected by recent floods and heavy rainfall mainly in North, East, Central and North Central Provinces while over 5,000 homes were completely destroyed and some 170,000 uninhabitable.

Thousands of acres of cultivated land and the fishing and livestock industries in those provinces had also been affected.

The Epidemiology Unit of the Health Ministry is on the alert to avoid the spread of water borne diseases in the flood affected areas.





SLRCS to assist 100,000 flood victims in East

January 18, 2011, 9:56 pm

Sri Lanka Red Cross Society (SLRCS) will continue to assist 100,000 residents of the East, who had been affected by the floods, until the situation returns to normalcy, said Director General of the SLRCS, Tissa Abeywickrama. He added that the SLRCS is currently formulating a Recovery Plan to determine the best way to assist them. "We will continue to assist until these people are able to return home and recommence their livelihoods. We will also assist them in rebuilding their damaged homes as well as their livelihoods," Abeywickrama said.

Noting that a large number of schools in the East had been turned into relief camps, the SLRCS decided to distribute temporary shelters (tents) so that the affected can be moved out from schools. SLRCS will also assist the reopening of schools by helping the school staff clean up the schools.

"In the last three days we have helped clean 43 schools in the East by spraying germicides. We are also distributing sanitary packs, specially targeting women and children. Already 1500 packs have been given and we will send another 1,500 to the East on Thursday (20.)"

Meanwhile, the SLRCS has already procured 20 000 exercise books from the State Printing Corporation to distribute among school children affected by the floods. Abeywickrama added that six million rupees had been distributed among SLRCS stores in 15 districts to provide dry rations to the people.

"We will also help at least 2,000 families rebuild their homes destroyed by the floods. Also, in the Polonnaruwa district, we have implemented a special programme to clean up the wells and our teams are working 24 hours a day until the situation normalizes. All these initiatives are led by President of the Sri Lanka Red Cross Society Jagath Abeysinghe," he said.





Inflationary pressures

January 18, 2011, 6:42 pm

Pakistani Prime Minister Gilani has set up a committee to talk to the heads of opposition parties to convince them that there must be an end to the subsidies on power, oil and other prices. This seems to be a classic case of robbing Peter to pay Paul, only slightly modified, for the PM had only agreed to a rollback of the fuel prices at the beginning of the month after taking the other political parties on board. However, while the rollback offered the consumer not so much relief as an escape from further burdens, it seems that the government is bowing to international lending agency pressure to take tough decisions over the opposition at the grassroots. Mr Gilani obviously wants to deal with the deficit of 510 billion rupees (US$5.9 billion).

However, instead of putting his own house in order, it seems he wants to take 'tough decisions', which will prove tough for the taxpayer, but not the members of his Cabinet, whose luxurious lifestyles are cushioned against any shocks. In this context, it seems the message being sent by the CBR Chairman while addressing the Karachi Chamber of Commerce and Industry, in which he called for the development of a working partnership between the government and the business community, is merely that the IMF agenda will be implemented. The main plank, which has been avoided so far because of its inflationary effects, has been the RGST. That, along with the withdrawal of remaining subsidies, is very important to the IMF agenda for Pakistan.

There remain two broad measures that the government is studiously avoiding that would probably help in bringing Pakistan out of the present impasse. This does not mean that Pakistan should do this, or anything, with an eye on the international lending agencies, but it makes good sense to bring the Cabinet under some sort of control, by reducing the huge number of ministers, and bringing an end to the luxurious lifestyle they maintain at the taxpayer's expense.

Apart from that measure, which the government brazenly defends on the specious ground that it is a coalition, there is the question of an agricultural income tax. Agricultural incomes have been left to escape untaxed, mainly because those in the assemblies have avoided imposing taxes on them to save their own incomes. It must be remembered that this is quite apart from the not inconsiderable proceeds of corruption.

When the government decides to defy the IMF and refuse to impose the inflationary RGST, and decides not just to cut the Cabinet but also to tax agricultural incomes, it will find the books balance quite comfortably.





47th AGM of Susitha Wadana Samithiya

January 18, 2011, 9:54 pm

The 47th Annual General Meeting of the Susitha Wadana Samithiya of Hendela will be held on 22 January 2011 at 5.30 p.m. at its auditorium at Hendala Road, Nayakakanda, Hendala. The Chief Guest will be Attorney General Mohan Peiris, while the Guest of Honour will be Dilhan Fernando, Trustee, MJF Charitable Foundation.





As admitted by the skipper himself and his team mates, Mohammed Rafi can't sing. "If he tries it would be a far cry from his namesake, legendary Indian singer," the cricketers of Zahira College say. But that seems to matter very little to Zahira College as both captain Mohammed Imraz Rafi and his team are on-song these days in the ongoing Under-19 two day season. After nine encounters, Zahira College have recorded three outright victories and those three have come in the last three encounters, which is a good omen for the remainder of the season, as they persevere for a top rank in their group in the tournament.

Last year they had to fight hard to prevent relegation to Division II. In fact, they were the lowest placed team in Group 'A' last year. In contrast, this year, playing in Group 'D' alongside some tough teams they have done better to prevent the disappointments they faced last season.

Who should be credited for the improvement is a question too early to be asked with five of their tournament matches yet to be played. However, since coming under Mahesh Weerasinghe's coaching, the team seems to have adopted a new approach.

From fifth year coloursman Rafi, left-handed opener Shehan Jainudeen, Ashad Borham to the middle order, the batsmen seems to have adopted a new approach, which is to play positive cricket.

Rafi in particular is in terrific form, scoring over 650 runs in nine matches with two mach winning centuries and three half centuries. He scored centuries in their crushing victory against St. John's College, Nugegoda and in their win over Maris Stella College, Negombo. However, Zahira would rate their victory over Kingswood College, Kandy, above all others as it has come in a tournament match and would earn them valuable points. Rafi has contributed towards all their three victories so far this season. It was skipper Rafi who laid the foundation for the victory against Kingswood, top scoring with 77 runs, for them to post a formidable first innings total.

Zahira could not post big scores in their matches against St. Benedict's and St. Joseph's, but their batsmen have contributed consistently in other matches.

Opener Shihan Jainudeen and Ashad Borham are the other leading run scorers in the team with both scoring over 400 runs this season. Both have centuries to their credit. Mohammed Dilshad too has contributed with useful runs with two half centuries.

Their bowling department is dominated by spinners. New recruit Pradeep Ananda is their highest wicket taker with 32 wickets. Leg spinners Ananda and Irshad Umer have shared over 60 wickets, while skipper Rafi also has picked up nearly 30 wickets.





Australian cricketers 'drinking in bar on eve of Ashes defeat'

January 18, 2011, 12:00 pm

by Megan Levy

A second witness has emerged claiming he saw Australian cricketers Michael Clarke and Phil Hughes drinking at a Melbourne bar well into the night on the eve of their humiliating Ashes series defeat at the MCG. A photo has emerged of the cricketers posing with fans at The World Restaurant and Bar in Southbank, reportedly taken just 12 hours before the Australian team took to the field on the fourth and final day of the Boxing Day Test. The thrashing led to England retaining the Ashes on Australian soil for the first time in 24 years. A witness, Paul, told radio 3AW on Tuesday that he left the bar about 11.30 pm. Australia's vice-captain Clarke and rookie Hughes were still "well and truly going at that stage", he said.

"I asked [Hughes] why he was out on the town and he basically told me the game was over, he had done his job and it was time to get on it," Paul claimed.

"He didn't [have to bat the following day] but he was still there representing the country and the attitude, he basically told me that he was there to take the cash, that's why he was there."

It follows allegations by Melbourne-based Englishwoman Emily Goodyear in a British newspaper that the pair drank vodka with her and criticised their "boring" team-mates for not going out drinking with them.

"They said, 'It doesn't matter that we're out – we've lost the match anyway," the 25-year-old told The Sunday People.

She said she flirted with the cricketers for 45 minutes before leaving at midnight, when the pair were still at the bar.

Clarke's manager has been contacted for comment.

However, Clarke has previously claimed that he went out with Hughes that night for dinner and two drinks, before heading to Crown Casino to get some batting advice from former Australian cricketer Michael Slater.

He said he did not get home late, and would never do anything to jeopardise his performance in the Australian team.

Former Australian cricketer Dean Jones told 3AW it was unusual to see elite sports stars having a few drinks in the middle of competition.

"I think that's half the problem with the culture of the actual team at the moment, why it's struggling," he said.

"It's almost imploding on itself in certain areas whereby some of them are crying out for help and need advice and they're not getting it.

"Would [Clarke and Hughes] have done that if they hadn't batted? Probably, knowing those boys, they wouldn't have."

He said Cricket Australia was concerned that cricketers were more worried about their "celebrity status and sitting worrying about how they look instead of going out there and making runs".

He said cricketers of days gone by had been known for their high consumption of alcohol, including the infamous flight from Sydney to London when David Boon knocked back 52 beers.

In another instance, cricketing legends Gary Gilmour and Doug Walters had been "on the turps all night" celebrating a Test win in England before batting the next day.





SLASSCOM launches an industry career initiative

January 18, 2011, 6:12 pm

The Sri Lankan IT and BPO industry is projected to grow by 26% in 2011 with export earnings estimated at US$ 390 million for 2010. Sri Lanka has set a target of US$ 1 billion revenue with employment of 100,000 by 2015 in the IT/ BPO industry. One of the key prerequisite for this growth to be realized is the acceleration of human resource capacity development in the industry. The SLASSCOM FutureCareers initiative is aimed at expanding the talent pool available to the industry as part of this Capacity building program. SLASSCOM Future Careers initiative will focus on connecting Sri Lankan youth to the exciting job opportunities in the knowledge service industry for them to become truly global citizens.

The IT/ BPO industry offers exciting work, fun atmosphere, global exposure, fast paced career progression and even an opportunity for one to become an entrepreneur. At the EDEX expo SLASSCOM will launch a short documentary on the careers in IT-BPO industry with the endorsement of Ministry of Higher Education, Ministry of Education and ICTA. The FutureCareers documentary will highlight the work opportunities and experience from young people employed within the IT/ BPO industry across a wide spectrum of jobs to give potential new entrants to the industry an overview of the opportunities.

Students would have the opportunity to meet with many leading IT-BPO companies at the SLASSCOM Future Careers pavilion. Walk in interviews would be conducted by some of the companies. Dialog, HSBC, Providence, RRDonnelly, Innodata Isogen, MMBL Cyber Skills, Virtusa, IFS, Hsenid, Mphasis and Infomate will be some of the featured employers for students to discuss career opportunities and even have the possibility to gain employment. At EDEX, SLASSCOM will educate both students and parents on the wide array of options available in both the IT and BPO sectors, and highlight the skills required that will empower them to enter this industry and increase their earning potential.

We invite students to visit the SLASSCOM Future Careers pavilion to meet leading IT-BPO companies and how you can become part of this exciting industry. Students can also join online at www.FutureCareers.lk to learn about the industry. SLASSCOM invites the industry professionals to also join at www.FutureCareers.lk to encourage and offer their support and guidance to a new entrant to the industry.

"We aim to leverage the EDEX platform to primarily focus on creating awareness among youth about the benefits of selecting IT or BPO as a career path. Our aspiration is to attract large number of youth to join the fast growing IT-BPO industry in Sri Lanka"Madu Ratnayake, Vice President and Director of SLASSCOM said..

SLASSCOM entered into a strategic partnership with EDEX for the first time for the forthcoming EDEX-2011 Expo and has invited their member companies to participate within the SLASSCOM pavilion.

EDEX is the pioneering higher education and careers exhibition in Sri Lanka organized by Royal College Union attracting the largest and most diverse number of local and overseas participants held annually in Colombo and Kandy. The 8th EDEX expo will be held on January 22nd, 23rd & 24th 2011 at BMICH Colombo and on January 26th & 27th at the Kandy City Centre respectively under its theme for 2011, "Be Wise, EDEX-Wise".





The intermediate regime

January 18, 2011, 6:49 pm

by Sanjeeb Mukherjee

The culture of violence is not new to Bengal. Whether it's the cult of Kali, the nationalist revolutionary terrorists, the Communists or Netaji's challenge to Gandhi, the common strand is the legitimisation, even glorification, of violence. Broadly, there are three categories of violence. First, popular violence against dominant and oppressive institutions and systems, for example against colonialism or oppressive states, led by the upper class. Second, violence of the State or dominant classes and castes against the ordinary people. Finally, violence among people belonging to the same social strata, but divided along lines of religion, ideology or political loyalty. Contemporary Bengal is contending with violence of the second and third categories. To orthodox Communists, belief in violence is an article of faith. It is rooted in the theory that the State is a violent instrument in the hands of the ruling class to oppress and exploit the people. And this injustice can only be removed by an armed revolution to overthrow the State. The CPI-M still seems to have faith in this conventional perception.

Communist politics is based on a fundamental distinction between whom they call friends and enemies of the revolution. Classes that oppose the revolution are considered as enemies, to be hated and fought and, if necessary, killed. This politics of hate and violence is legitimised by both ideology as well as cultural propaganda, involving the use of art, literature and poetry. To legitimise violence against members of one's own class a finer distinction is made between class and consciousness.

What happens to this belief under conditions of democracy? Does democracy offer space and scope for the people to come to power and change an unjust social and economic order? The orthodox Left answer was that democracy is a sham, an illusion to fool the people and it is actually toothless because it is part of the superstructure which is merely an epi-phenomenon determined by the base, that is, the economy. In fact, when India became independent the Communists called it a farce; their slogan was ye azadi jhooti hai. They then tried their hand at armed insurrections, which failed to get popular support. In their reckoning, democracy was, in the final analysis, a farce and a class tool, but in the intervening period they could make use of it to bolster their support base and ultimately subvert the concept.

The Bengal Left skillfully made use of democracy to enlarge its support base. Post-1977, the CPI-M entrenched itself firmly in state power, both by generating popular support as well as destroying any opposition to the regime. Apparently, democracy coupled with peace and order were restored, but it was a sinister democracy which had popular support, but no dissent or opposition was tolerated. The Left reduced democracy to majoritarianism, the same claim that Narendra Modi had made after winning consecutive elections in Gujarat following the pogrom against minorities.

The CPI-M, supported by its ideology and organisation, crafted an all-pervasive strategy to control all spheres of the state and society in Bengal. Ideologically, the party defended itself by arguing that those opposing it are its class enemies and enemies of the poor and hence do not deserve to be heard. Second, it argued that the existing institutions of the state and civil society are organs of the ruling class and would obstruct the functioning of this government. The party mobilised its cadres and loyalists to capture these institutions. Both the Constitution and the rule of law were violated. This is part of the bourgeois strategy to keep the people away from power.

In course of time, the CPI-M's frontal organisations among government employees, teachers and others became the new apparatus of rule. Jyoti Basu, on assuming power in 1977, declared that this government would not rule from Writers' Buildings; he was right, the party became the new organ and instrument of power.

To keep this strategy in place, it had to embark on a grand exercise of eliminating all opposition on all fronts. Three factors favoured the Left in this enterprise. First, it exploited the people's disgust against the previous Congress regime and the Emergency. Second, land reforms provided a groundswell of support in rural Bengal. Finally, through the panchayats the Left made a durable political alliance between the Left-led urban, especially lower, middle classes with the rural middle classes, consisting of middle and rich peasants, teachers and businessmen. With this alliance firmly in place the CPI-M could, with ease, take on any opposition. It systematically destroyed all opposition through threats, harassment, violence, denial of legitimate dues, arson and when everything failed, murder. The combination of terror with considerable popular support explains the durability of this regime.

This regime of terror and violence persisted with the destruction of the culture of democracy. Civil society has been relegated to the margins. Central to the role of civil society is the critical voice of the intellectuals in any society. But after 1977, the CPI-M managed to co-opt this stratum into the ruling alliance and its share of power and privilege.

Under classical capitalism, the ruling classes primarily dominate and rule by virtue of their economic power. But when the middle and lower middle classes come to assume power, the basis of power is political or state or governmental power. The Polish economist, Michael Kalecki, called such forms of rule as intermediate regimes and Bengal today is a classic instance. I wish to describe them as a ruling class because they extract and live off the surplus, but the mode of surplus extraction is not primarily economic; it is political. While in power, these classes skim off the social surplus collected by the state in the form of taxes through fat pay packets and the celebration of the "shirk ethic". Besides, this regime controls access to the ruling class by its control over jobs and promotions. The "shirk ethic" has reached such colossal proportions that Jyoti Basu was once provoked to ask: "Whom do I ask to work? The chairs of Writers' Buildings?" The present incumbent had to coin the slogan "do it now" And government employees chuckle in wonder: "Do what?" Corruption and influence are the other modalities of power and surplus extraction, which makes it primarily a parasitical and political mode. It does not generate wealth and the ethos of shirking further dampens the climate of productive activities. This results in a massive fiscal crisis and huge public debts to pay its employees. Most important, this trend has damaged the vitals of our society, economy and culture and accounts for the overwhelming decay of West Bengal.

Over the past 35 years, the Left, like any rentier class, has a single agenda ~ to remain in power. This is the fundamental difference between a parasitical ruling class and an economic ruling class; the latter can continue with its surplus extraction whoever comes to power. This is the reason why the Left so systematically destroyed all opposition to its rule and now in the face of a mass upsurge by the subaltern classes, it per force has to resort to violence to retain its power and privileges. It is fighting tooth and nail to prevent its loss of power and ultimately has to build its private armies, much like the feudal landlords of Bihar, whose power is also based on coercion.

If people want change, can our democracy make a peaceful transition possible? It is difficult because the stakes for the Left are high. So if we want to give peace a chance, there has to be a concerted intervention from all quarters; it cannot be an episodic intervention in the form of an occasional peace march or a street corner meeting. Those who want to see a rejuvenated Bengal will have to consistently and actively intervene to bring about the change.

The institutions and people entrusted with protecting our Constitution and the rule of law will have to act immediately, take firm measures to bring about peace and restore the democratic process. Three constitutional entities will have to act urgently, pre-eminently the Governor, the Union home ministry and the judiciary. They are duty-bound to uphold the letter and the spirit of the Constitution. ANN/ The Statesman

The writer is on the Faculty, Department of Political Science, Calcutta University





Role of the lawyer in combating crime

January 18, 2011, 7:06 pm

by E. M. G. Edirisinghe

A worldwide survey conducted by the London- based International Bar Association shows that lawyers in many countries think corruption has tainted their profession, with more than one in five saying they have been asked to take part in shady transactions. One in three of all lawyers surveyed said that they had lost business due to corrupt firms or individuals (The Island of 05-10-2010). The law whether common, customary or statutory, is meant to uphold justice, and stabilize morality within society. Also, it operates as the medium through which those who commit offences against the moral, social or economic existence of their fellow citizens are punished. Through punishment in accordance with the law, it is expected to reform and regain the wrong-doer who is almost lost to society. The irony of the operation of the law is that both the lawmaker and the law practitioner are subject to the operation of the very law they breathe life into. However, we consider those who act outside the operation of the law and those who run away from the law, are either doing so with political backing or official standing. It is an accepted principle that the co-operation of the politicians in the operation of law is almost nil because they think that they are the law. Therefore, we must examine the responsibility and the duty of the lawyer in arresting the growing crime rate within the country.

Every person is moulded by the discipline imposed by law and morality. Morality, which has taken grip of man, does not change as fast as the law of the land does. However, even if the interpretation of what morality is could change, its spiritual content could never change. Even if a clever lawyer could interpret and reinterpret the law or, a shrewd criminal could creep through that, they cannot ignore or melt down the soul of moral law. However, even if man requires the operation of the law to lead a life in society, he does not need the force of the moral code to do so. Morality has no monetary value but not so the law. Some people, depending on the situation, break the law to suit their goal.

Morality exists beyond the law and it begins to operate from the point at which the law ceases. The law links with the person within social life, while morality links within the society within his personal life. Within this scenario, the rise in the crime rate in the country is subject to discussion. The task of the lawyer who comes in defence of a suspect is relevant here. What is important is either to get the accused freed or to bring him to book.

Within this background, three instances which could illustrate the lawyers' roles could be cited. In one instance, a lawyer to whom a murderer came with a request to save him from gallows, told him that he cannot defend a murderer and he got to pay the penalty. One other lawyer instructed his client on how he could eliminate his enemy and legally escape penalty of death. Another lawyer told the suspect that he would save his skin only if he had committed the murder.

Where does the law and the lawyer stand in this scenario? The lawyer has a responsibility to society as well as the individual who has committed the crime. What is his responsibility to the society of which he too is a member? The right to retain the service of a lawyer is a fundamental right of every citizen which nobody can deny him or her. Professional service of any lawyer could be obtained by any criminal. What is important here is the intention of the lawyer who appears for the suspect. While he appears, in the interests of the criminal, hasn't he, the lawyer, got s duty by society too? Or is he bound to save his client, knowing well that he had committed a criminal offence against man and society which is punishable under the law of the land? Where is his obligation to assist the judiciary to identify the nature and extent of the crime his client has committed? To the extent that a lawyer respects law and order of the country, the dignity of his profession too depends.

There are instances of the people demonstrating against the appearance of lawyers in defence of some offenders. Some people suggest that instead of protesting against the appearance of lawyers in defence of gambling, drug addiction or alcoholism, they must rise against those vices themselves. However, people always prefer to take the easier path to justice. Stoning to death is one such instance. They believe it is easier to punish the offender rather than to stop the offence being committed. Money that is earned through illegal, immoral means has the same or a greater effect than what is earned through moral and legal means. For example, they believe that it is easier to win divine favours through offering paduru, pooja vatti and 1000 rupee notes to gods, rather than leading a righteous life free from sin. Therefore men throng devales instead of temples, forgetting that one is one's own saviour.

With all the laws in force and the lawyers assisting the judiciary in whatever form they can, one cannot deny the fact that there is a considerable increase in vices, such as, gambling, consumption of liquor, drug-trafficking and the use of illegal arms. Underworld activity has doubled with a degree of political patronage provided to the criminals. Common man who is struggling to exist cannot fight crime and it is the state and the lawyers who could rid the country of crime. The law should never allow the criminals to run away from the operation of the law and seek refuge in lawyers to escape from paying the penalty. It is also because the majority of the citizens are law- abiding that a few criminals could thrive on crimes.

If an accused or a defendant admits that he had committed an offence or makes a confession, the task of the lawyer is made much easier. Such admissions and confessions make it easier for the judiciary and lawyers. In these instances, the presence of the lawyers becomes more fruitful to the society as well. Therefore, as a move towards self-participation the lawyers must welcome such instances in the interest of society which will be morally more enriched.

Admission of a wrong itself is a self-punishment on one by oneself. That gives a sense of correcting oneself and develops no hatred towards another. Therefore, the lawyer should always make an effort to persuade a wrong-doer to make a confession without converting it into a source of income for the lawyer and a sensation for society. The process of justice should be strengthened by the lawyers by being an active party to maintain law and order in the country. Penalising an innocent person is an injustice to that person while the acquittal of a wrong-doer is an injustice to the whole society.

Criminals do their utmost to retain lawyers and escape being found guilty and emerge as cultured people who do no wrong. The people think that those who are willing to spend millions on lawyers in seeking justice are those who have earned money through illegal and immoral means. The more the suspects spend seeking 'justice' greater is the suspicion that he is guilty; but the lawyers should, however, never let the people believe that they are the saviours of criminals.

It is unpreventable for the people to become grief-stricken by serious crimes, the proceedings of which are followed by the people anxiously awaiting the court decision. When the criminals are acquitted or escape arrest, the crime rate in the country too begins to increase turning it into big business. A plea in mitigation of the offence is a legitimate measure that a lawyer could advance in defence of his client.

Today, to arrest the criminals, get witnesses and penalize the offenders are becoming more and more difficult for the Police as the criminals have advanced to match the investigation methods. This may be mostly due to pressure brought in by politicians, lawyers and other influential people, who often come forth in defence of criminals. This trend in our social life has resulted in the people losing fear and respect for the law and they even tend to develop a sense of disgust for the law of the country. Loss of respect for the law would certainly lead a country to a state of lawlessness. Any attempt to save a criminal is generally looked down upon by the people.

It demeans a lawyer to instruct a criminal to say that he did not commit a crime. Accused is innocent until proved guilty; but, not so according to one's moral quality or conscience. There may be instances of one acting under the influence of one's subconscious (eg. cleptomania). Such persons are more or less sick and should be treated separately. Presence of Mens rea should be proved by the prosecution. But, mostly it is the criminal who knows it better. If the law operates smoothly and fairly no lawyer can make one who is 'guilty', 'not guilty'. Once, a former minister was found not guilty in a case with regard to land acquired by the government. He was found not guilty not because he was innocent, but because only two commissioners of the three commissioners had been signatories to the decision. The law should not be turned and twisted to save the guilty.

Law is one thing; the offence is another thing; proof of an offence beyond reasonable doubt is yet another thing and ethics is something altogether different from all these. Acting against such a complex background, the lawyer should be proficient in law and should honestly use his profession according to his conscience which should take precedence over the law per se. A lawyer could be honesty happy only if an accused is acquitted for the reason that he is really innocent.

A doctor is bound to treat any injured person who comes to him for treatment. If the injured man is a criminal wanted by the Police, the doctor has a moral responsibility to inform the Police about him. However, some time back a Sri Lankan named Nadarajah Jeyakumar was arrested in England for stealing women's underwear worth millions. The court acquitted him when he claimed that he has undergone immense suffering in Sri Lanka. This may be an instance in proof that 'Law is an Ass'. However, morality is never an ass, the law is supposed to be so.





Warning over work experience as graduate job applications soar

January 18, 2011, 12:00 pm

By Graeme Paton, Education Editor

More than 45 students are expected to compete for each graduate job this year amid record demand for the most sought-after positions, according to research. At least half of Britain's biggest employers are reporting a surge in the number of applications being submitted for skilled jobs, it was disclosed. The study warned that competition is now so fierce that many companies are refusing to consider graduates – even the very brightest – unless they have completed relevant work experience. An estimated third of this year's vacancies will be filled by applicants who have already worked for the employer as an undergraduate.

The disclosure will fuel fears that degree results and A-level grades alone are no longer enough to satisfy prospective employers. Martin Birchall, managing director of High Fliers Research, which carried out the study, said: "The class of 2011 will be disappointed to hear that graduate recruitment has yet to return to the pre-recession levels seen in 2007, especially as there are an estimated 50,000 extra graduates leaving university in 2011 compared with four years ago.

"Today's report includes the stark warning that in this highly competitive graduate job market, new graduates who've not had any work experience during their time at university have little or no chance of landing a well-paid job with a leading employer, irrespective of the university they've attended or the academic results they achieve."





Tackling Telangana!

January 18, 2011, 5:11 pm

By Rajinder Puri (The Statesman/ANN)

THE current escalating crisis in Andhra sparked by the Telangana demand is a lesson of how politics should not be conducted. It provides a damning indictment of Sonia Gandhi's ineptitude. Thanks to her, India now might well be destabilized by yet another smouldering crisis. The current crisis started after the accidental death of the late Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister, YSR Reddy. Because of sentiment the overwhelming view of Andhra legislators was to make YSR's son Jaganmohan Reddy, who was an MP, the new CM. For no compelling reason Sonia Gandhi resisted the demand. As the demand gathered momentum she unilaterally declared her commitment to make the separate state of Telangana. She thought this would divide Jagan Reddy's support. Thereby she selected a remedy worse than the perceived ailment. The strongest and oldest demand for separate statehood is in Telangana. Due to late YSR's political manipulation it was only smouldering. Now it has been ignited threatening to engulf Andhra in flames.

Telengana is in fact the pre-independence princely state of Hyderabad. The Nizam ruled Hyderabad. The state had a cultural identity apart from the rest of the Telegu-speaking people who are spread in 22 districts. Only nine of these were in Hyderabad, the rest in the Madras Presidency. In 1953 all Telegu districts were carved out to make Andhra, the first state formed on a purely linguistic basis. Later Andhra was merged with the Telugu- speaking area of Hyderabad to become present-day Andhra Pradesh.

There is a common fallacy that is destabilizing the world today. It is the tendency to view all political demands only on the basis of economic well-being. This is happening because the corporate world has subverted the political process. Economic prospects informing the big business mindset have all but extinguished political sentiment. This is a global phenomenon. Consider the subversion of the European Union concept as envisaged by its original 15 founding members by the mindless expansion of the Community in search for bigger markets.

The Srikrishna Report on Telangana states that Telangana is not more backward than the rest of Andhra. The report and politicians in general miss the point. The demand for Telangana is not based on economic considerations. Deep down it is an assertion of identity. Identity that defines self-rule or independence is crucial for the political process. Hegel and Max Weber wove an entire thesis around it. Karl Marx focused on economic interests as the defining criterion for global consolidation. History vindicated Hegel. It was pure nationalism that divided Soviet Union and China despite a common approach to economic theory. In India the governance provided by British colonialists was perhaps superior to that provided by the rulers who preceded them or those who followed them. But that did not dilute the urge for independence that sought to assert an Indian identity.

India opted for linguistic states after being compelled by an agitation. However, in the assertion of identity common language is but one factor defining group identity. Ethnicity, religion and shared experience common to a contiguous territory are other factors. That is why the establishment of linguistic states was a half step. A further study is required to consider shared history, dialect and economic viability of different territories to define statehood. The shared history of Telengana people united them culturally. The States Reorganization Commission (SRC) was against merging Telengana with Andhra. The 1955 SRC report said: "We have come to the conclusion that it will be in the interests of Andhra as well as Telangana area to constitute a separate State, which may be known as the Hyderabad State." The government ignored the recommendation and established present-day Andhra Pradesh in 1956.

There is need for a second States Reorganization Commission. It should study the issue of identity. There are dormant statehood demands in all the large states. An inflamed Telangana could spread the demands for new states across India. It should be noted that Konkani Goa was not merged with Maharashtra due to its unique history of being ruled by the Portuguese. UP, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Haryana were never considered as a mega state on account of all being Hindi-speaking. The Commission should also consider the desirability of converting all metropolitan capitals of large states into city states playing host to government and assembly offices of the newly carved smaller states.

Chandigarh as a Union Territory successfully serves Punjab and Haryana. So might Hyderabad serve Telangana, Rayalseema and coastal Andhra. If instead of a panic expedient decision to create Telangana a national policy to review all large states had been announced the present discord in Andhra might never have erupted. The issue of smaller states should not be clouded by the fruitless debate about comparative governance in large and small states. There are states in both groups that are well and ill governed. The issue of identity is the strongest political urge from the village to district, state and national levels. For stable systems it should be respected and not submerged by a myopic obsession with the economic rate of growth.





SLT, Mobitel together with the Ministry of Telecommunication and IT assist flood victims

January 18, 2011, 6:19 pm

Sri Lanka Telecom and Mobitel join hands with the Ministry of Telecommunication and Information Technology to support the Disaster Management Centre to help victims hit by heavy rains and subsequent floods that have occurred in the northern and eastern parts of our country, especially in Kalkudai and Ampara areas. Sri Lanka Telecom and Mobitel believe that it is a responsibility of the company to support the government in its disaster relief efforts to help people stranded in flood affected areas. At a Press Conference held on 16th January regarding the government's disaster relief efforts, Ranjith Siyambalapitiya, Minister of Telecommunications and Information Technology said, "Due to the heavy rains and subsequent flooding that occurred during the past few weeks in the Northern and Eastern parts of Sri Lanka, especially in the Pollonnaruwa and Madakalapuwa Districts, a large number of people living in those areas have been severely affected and displaced. Not only their homes and possessions were affected, but they have also lost their clothing and school books have also been destroyed. At such a time as this, I believe that it is our duty and responsibility to come forward and provide some sort of relief to our own brothers and sisters who have been affected by these floods. We would like to announce that the newly formed Ministry of Telecommunication and IT together with Sri Lanka Telecom and Mobitel, (two organizations that come under the purview of the Ministry of Telecommunications and IT) have embarked on disaster relief projects, which were commenced today, to provide essential items to the flood victims in affected areas."

The severe flooding has had a devastating impact on the general public and many SLT customers, and has also affected the company's network, disrupting telephone services in these areas. The Company assures its customers and the public that SLT staff are working around the clock to restore services and to support national disaster relief efforts.

The Disaster Recovery Management team of SLT is in the process of enabling all its regional offices and field maintenance centers as collection centers for essential goods for distribution to flood victims. The company, together with the Ministry of Telecommunication & IT and the Disaster Management Centre will co-ordinate the distribution of collected goods amongst the flood victims. SLT will maintain records of donors including their name, description of collected items, quantity and the name of the person handing over the items and the company will assume responsibility for the proper and safe storage of collected items until they are handed over to the relevant authorities for distribution. The company's island wide offices will be open to receive goods from the public with effect from 17th January.

SLT has also made telephone facilities available to the public at its island wide Regional Offices and also at the flood victim camps to enable essential telephone calls to be made 'free-of-charge' to and from camps, to enable people to communicate with their loved ones in affected areas, free of charge during this disaster situation.

SLT and its fully owned subsidiary Mobitel will also encourage and enable our customers to donate by sending a text message from their Mobitel mobile phone or SLT CDMA fixed phone to the special number "5050", the customer will be charged Rs 10 for each text message which will be matched Rupee for Rupee by SLT or Mobitel as the case may be and donated to the relief efforts. To donate, our customer simply needs to send the message donation@sltnet.lk to the special number 5050.





Chinese jet fighter highlights need for intelligence, dialogue

January 18, 2011, 7:09 pm

The China Post/ANN

As far as stealth fighters are concerned, the Chinese prototype J-20 is perhaps too eye-attracting. On Dec 22, 2010, photos of a taxiing test at the Chengdu Aircraft Design Institute of the fifth-generation twin-engine fighter aircraft emerged on the Internet and triggered a firestorm in the international media. On January 11, hours before US defence secretary Robert Gates met with Chinese President Hu Jintao in Beijing, the prototype was taken for a 20-minute test flight. However, the reason behind the test and the true capabilities of the J-20 are far less clear. The sooner-than-expected development of the advanced military aircraft apparently took the US by surprise. In 2009, in his push for ending production of the US's stealth fighter F-22, Gates said that the mainland "is projected to have no fifth-generation aircraft by 2020". He later corrected his assessment, saying that China might possess a handful of them by that year. Although the exact date for fielding the new fighter is anyone's guess, a successful test flight in 2011 will likely prove Gates wrong.

However, according to Gates, the US is not the only party caught unaware by the test flight. On January 12, he confirmed accounts by US officials that Hu himself seemed to be unaware of the test flight. "The civilian leadership seemed surprised by the test and assured me it had nothing to do with my visit," Gates said.

The Wall Street Journal observed that the test showed "a brash display of military might that fuelled doubts about the extent of Hu's authority just a week before his state visit to the US". Major US newspapers such as The New York Times and The Washington Post held similar views.

In an opinion piece, Tu Nien-chung, publisher of Taiwanese newspaper Apple Daily, pointed out that both Gates and Hu might have known more than they appeared to. While announcing a cut in the defence budget earlier this month, Gates highlighted the importance for the US to development high-tech weapons to compete with Chinese stealth fighters in the future. That showed that the defence secretary knew China was successful in developing the J-20, Tu reasoned. He also cited an awards presentation by Hu to a military engine developer in China on January 6 as evidence that the Chinese president has a firm grasp on the pace of the J-20 project. US media, it would appear, may have been fooled by both Gates and Hu, he concluded.

However, Tu did not consider the possibility that the mainstream US media is only playing along in the cross-Pacific ping pong game of intelligence. The scenario of weak civilian leadership over the army in China has long been a rationale for military development in the US In this sense, the J-20 served as the top US salesperson. India is reportedly considering buying US F-35 stealth fighters after the test J-20 flight.

In another observation, Ming Pao, which is regarded by many as one of the most credible and unbiased newspapers in Hong Kong, reported that the J-20 test is the first time in mainland China's 60-year history that a prototype fighter still in test flight stage has been publicly showcased. While it can be seen as a show of force, the transparency of the test can also be regarded as a sign of goodwill from the mainland to make its military less secretive, the newspaper pointed out.

The degree of difference between media interpretation of the J-20 test shows that without credible intelligence and channels for dialogue, the details regarding the technology in the stealth fighter and the motives behind its test can only be the result of guesswork. Unfortunately, Taiwan does not have the luxury of relying on speculation in a matter as important to its security as the development of the J-20, which if operational could pose a serious threat to the island.

Taiwan should keep a close watch on the development of the fighter, as well as other advanced Chinese weapons, through increased efforts to both acquire information on the matter and to establish dialogue with the mainland.





Uninspiring World Cup, a thing of the past

January 18, 2011, 9:28 pm

The World Cup has become the most overblown and uninspiring global sporting event. The 2011 World Cup might be a big deal for the host countries of India, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh, but it is tedious for the rest of the world and exactly what fading 50-over cricket didn't need. One-day cricket may have the occasional pep pill with a close finish or an exciting run chase but too many games are predictable and it is no surprise that the 20-over slap-and-dash game has now become the premier short-form game. We have to face facts and those facts are that Twenty20 cricket is now king. Test cricket should always have its place, mainly because of its marquee series like the Ashes, but the 50-over game has reached its use-by date.

Next month, 14 international teams will gather in the subcontinent for a week of who-cares "warm-up" games followed by another six weeks (believe it or not) of World Cup matches. The official schedule says the Cup kicks off on February 19 with the inaugural match between Bangladesh and India, but in reality it doesn't start until March 23 when the quarterfinals finally start.

The only thing that seems to matter to cricket's toffy-nosed administrators is the billions of dollars from television revenue they will get under the eight-year broadcasting deal which specifies World Cups must have at least 50 matches.

Sport is about entertainment and fans don't get nearly as much bang for their buck with 50-over cricket as they do with its 20-over cousin.

Former Australian batsman Michael Bevan feels no allegiance to the game he dominated for more than a decade.

Asked about the probable death of one-day cricket, Bevan said: "I wouldn't be disappointed. As a cricketer, it's really enjoyable playing in front of big crowds, and Twenty20 allows that to happen."





Lara: Proteas favourite for World Cup

January 18, 2011, 10:09 pm

NEW DELHI (AP) - Brian Lara favours South Africa to win the cricket World Cup but says it needs to ignore the bad luck which has plagued its five previous campaigns. The former West Indies captain says South Africa, a semifinalist on three occasions, "is capable of playing consistent cricket as is required in a long tournament like the World Cup," but he would probably not bet on it because it has a World Cup "bogey."

Lara named Australia, England and India as other teams to watch out for in the 14-team tournament to be hosted jointly by India, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh from Feb. 19. Lara was on the sidelines of a cricket clinic at Ferozeshah Kotla ground.





Duruthu signifies Buddha's first visit to Sri Lanka

January 18, 2011, 7:01 pm

By Premasara Epasinghe

This year's Duruthu Pura Pasalosvaka Poya Day falls on Wednesday, 19th January, 2011. On this day, thousands flock to temples all over the island to pay their homage to Buddha, Dhamma and Sangha. They engage in giving alms to Bhikkhus or needy people (Dana), dedicate this particular Holy Day on behalf of the Triple Gem (Seela) and concentrate on Meditation (Bhavana). They follow the Noble Principle of Buddhism in refraining from evil-doing; indulging in doing good and cleansing the minds. In short, this is what Buddhism is all about:

'Sabbapapassa Akaranam –

Kusalassa Upasampada –

Sachitta Pariyodapanan –

Etam Buddana Sasanam'

Dhammapada – Verse 183 (Treasury of Truth)

Buddhism and the Sinhala culture are inseparable. With the advent of Buddhism to Sri Lanka during the reign of the king Devanampiyatissa, he made a world of difference and their lifestyles were made according to the Buddhist principles, Metta, Muditha, Karuna and the loving kindness to the humanity become the corner-stones of life.

The noteworthy text is that each Poya Day is closely connected to a significant event that took place in the history of Buddhism. For example, two most important Poyas for Sri Lanka are Vesak, the day of the birth of Prince Siddhartha, the Gautama Buddha, the great teacher, and his attainment of the Buddhahood (Enlightenment) and His passing away at the city Kusinara.

Vesak is celebrated among six hundred million people mostly in Asia. Poson signifies the advent of Buddha in Sri Lanka.

Then what is the importance of this Duruthu Full Moon Poya Day?

The Buddhists in Sri Lanka believe that on this Duruthu Purapaslosvaka Poya Day the Blessed One, Buddha, visited Sri Lanka for the first time. According to the chronicle, it states "Buddha arrived in Sri Lanka to free this beautiful, resplendent island from Yakkas."

Buddha gave a clear message to the inhabitants of the country and advised them to mould their lives and follow the five precepts, the cardinal principles of peace and happiness, namely: (a) abstain from destroying living beings, (b) abstain from taking things not given, (c) refrain or abstain from sexual misconduct, (d) abstain from false and (e) refrain from taking anything that beget intoxication or heedless-ness.

In his first visit, Buddha arrived at Mahiyangana nestlings in the banks of Mahaweli River on one side. We believe that Mahiyangana – Mutiyangana stupa was constructed at the place where Buddha laid His footstep in Sri Lanka.

The purpose of His mission to Sri Lanka was to restore peace in this resplendent island. This event took place on Duruthu Pura Pasalosvaka Poya Day. Today, we pay our respect to Gautama Thathagatha.

Another significant incident that took place on the Duruthu Poya Day was the meeting of Buddha and an incumbent deity of Siripada, the God Sumana, at Bintenne, Mahiyangana. When God Sumana kindly requested Buddha for a souvenir, Gautama Buddha has given God Sumana some locks of His hair. It was on a month of Duruthu that God Sumana placed his hair in an urn inside Mahiyangana - Mutiyangana stupa. Many devotees therefore will pay their homage to Mahiyangana stupa on this Duruthu Poya Day.

There are 16 (sixteen) important Buddhist shrines in Sri Lanka. Out of these 16, the most significant shrine is considered as Mahiyangana.

According to the Mahavamsa, when Gautama Buddha's passing away, Sarabhu, a disciple of Sariputta, with his miraculous powers, received from the pyre of the Gautama Buddha, with honour and respect, the collar-bone and brought it to Sri Lanka, enshrined it in the Mahiyangana chaitya.

The other Sinhala kings who improved the infrastructure facilities and constructions of Mahiyangana stupa were Greet King Dutugemunu and Sirisangabo. The son of Devanampiyatissa's brother, Prince Uddachullabaya reconstructed the Mahiyangana stupa. There is evidence that deity Sumana, to safeguard the stupa, constructed a Devalaya. Further, an annual procession was held with pomp and glamour at the vicinity of the Mahiyangana stupa.

The Blessed One made his second visit to Nagadeepa and the third to Kelaniya.

Buddha, through love and compassion to all Sri Lankans, arrived at Kelaniya on a Vesak Full Moon Poya Day.

As a result of the first visit of Buddha to Sri Lanka, on a Duruthu Poya Day, the Buddhist culture was established to a certain extent but the real propagation of Buddhism began with the arrival of Mahinda Arahat Thera from India during the reign of Devanampiyatissa.

The King Voharikatissa (204-225 AD) built a parasol over the Mahiyangana stupa. Further, Sena-II (885-896 AD), Kassapa-IV (896-918 AD), Vijayabahu-I (1059-1114 AD) and Parakramabahu-I (1410-1468 AD) were some of the kings who gave their utmost royal patronage to the development of the Mahiyangana Maha Seya which became the centre of Buddhist activity.

Today, Buddhism is a religion, philosophy and a teaching followed by a large segment of the world's population. Buddha is undoubtedly classed as one of the greatest religious leaders of the world like Jesus Christ and Prophet Mohammad, the founder of Islam.

The Blessed One's love certainly extended beyond mankind. This great religious leader recognised the rights of the human beings. Even His visit to Mahiyangana on a Duruthu Poya clearly shows His philosophy was to abstain from taking life of human beings, Sabbesatta Bhavantu Sukhitatta. May all living beings be well and happy!

We wish our readers a very Happy New Year of 2011! On this Duruthu Poya, we wish them with a blessing from Jinapagaraya Piritha thus: 'Sabbava Mangala –





The Sri Lanka Horticulturists Associaition will hold an exhibition of flowers and plants at the Vihara Maha Devi Park from January 21st to 23rd at the modernized exhibition area. The area had been closed for renovations during the last few weeks. The Colombo Mayor Omar Kamil has authorized the Association to hold exhibitions during the weekends hereafter, a spokesman for the association said.





'Jaffna Trade Fair 2011' site being prepared during President's visit to Jaffna

January 18, 2011, 6:17 pm

The site was working at its full scale when the head of state, President Mahinda Rajapaksa and his entourage passed by the ground adjoining the Durayappah Stadium (where the Thaipongal ceremony was held) in Jaffna Monday the 16th January 2011. Initially, the President would have been wandering about this sudden project that has emerged in Jaffna town with major activities and ground work going-on, however, immediate news followed with detailed descriptions of the 1st ever international trade fair which is scheduled in the Northern peninsula of Sri Lanka. Jaffna International Trade Fair 2011 is the 2nd consecutive trade fair organized by Lanka Exhibition and Conference Services [LECS], the Presidential Award winning company, in collaboration with the Federation of Chambers of Commerce and Industry of Sri Lanka. JITF 2011 is organized in association with the Chamber of Commerce and Industries of Yarlpanam supported by the Sri Lanka Convention Bureau.

Considering the inadequate facilities available for an international exhibition in Jaffna, old Municipal Council ground located next to Durayappah Stadium in Jaffna town is given a massive facelift with ground preparation, stalls and even with mobile toilet facilities. Jaffna International Trade Fair 2011 will also feature the biggest dorm ever to be built for exhibitions and trade fairs in the history of Sri Lanka, commented Imran Hassan, Director LECS. The dorm itself could accommodate over 150 stalls with an equal amount of stalls located in other areas within the exhibition premises, continued Imran. We were amazed with the turn-out of 300 odd stalls for this year's fair with a majority of repeat clients. This was supplemented by top blue chip companies of Sri Lanka, Indian, Malaysian, Indonesian and other international business communities which already confirmed their participation, added Imran.

Jaffna with its preparation for 'JITF 2011' scheduled from 21st, 22nd & 23rd January 2011, will surly 'open its gates' for business locally and globally with indications of prosperity to its people.

Economic Minister Basil Rajapakse was invited as the Chief Gust, while Sri Ashok K. Kantha, Indian High Commissioner, and ministers Rishard Bathiudeen, Douglas Dewananda are invited as Guests of Honour together with Major General G.A Chandrasiri, Governor, Northern Provincial Council, Mrs. Yogeswary Patkunarajah, Mayor, Municipal Council, Jaffna for the opening ceremony which is scheduled to be held at the Jaffna Public Library Auditorium at 10.00 a.m. on the 21st of January 2011.





Polls posters all around the country : Era of police action against posters over

January 18, 2011, 10:00 pm

The Campaign for Free and Fair Elections (CaFFE) yesterday said that police was giving preferential treatment to some politicians by allowing them to put up posters for the forthcoming local government polls and That was a violation of the fundamental principals of free and fair elections.

A media release from CaFFE said: "Several well off candidates have already begun election propaganda by using hoardings and posters which will have an adverse effect on the environment.

"After the date for the nominations was declared several candidates have began a massive propaganda campaign. These candidates feel that this is the best way to win in an election which will be held under Proportional Representation and preferential vote system. However these candidates have no consideration of how their actions will impact the environment.

"There are no regulations in Sri Lanka to stop the pasting of posters and since the nomination period has not ended election laws also do not apply to the present situation.

"However, in the last six months the Police continued to harass opposition political party activists who pasted posters using an obsolete provision in the penal code. Many were arrested and produced before Courts using provisions from the National Thoroughfares Act and Environmental Acts. "There were also reports that even people who had been pasting posters announcing dramas, funerals and other non-political activities had been arrested.

"However, this has changed after the election was declared. The police do not seem to take any action against these politicians who are pasting thousands of posters. Due to the massive scale of the operation this causes more environmental damage than the activities carried out by those arrested and harassed in the last six months by police.

"CaFFE notices that the police is giving preferential treatment to some politicians and this is a violation of a fundamental principal of a free and fair election, a level playing field. Therefore CaFFE requests the authorities to enforce the law equally to everyone and requests all candidates to be mindful of the environmental impact of their actions."





NDB Bank in 'Business Today' Top 20

January 18, 2011, 6:13 pm

NDB Bank was positioned in the prestigious Business Today Top Twenty Awards ranking which recognizes the cream of Sri Lankan corporates for their exceptional performance throughout the past year. These highly acclaimed corporate awards are carried out strictly based on published financial information and other indicators of companies listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange for the year 2009/2010. Contributing factors towards NDB Bank's ranking was based on the bank's strong fundamentals, competitive strengths and diversified businesses within the Group. A growth of 18% in total assets during the financial year and a non-performing loan ratio of 2.58% in contrast to an industry ratio of 8% were taken into consideration along with the group profit attributable to shareholders increasing 30%, in comparison to the previous year. NDB Bank continues to invest in technology, distribution and brand building while managing the task of balancing short term profits against the cost of investment for longer term gains. Additionally, the bank's liquidity positions were further strengthened with a 57% increase in the deposit base. Coupon

Speaking at the Top 20 Awards Presentation held recently, Chief Executive Officer of NDB Bank, Mr. Russell De Mel said, "Today NDB Group positions itself as a unique knowledge hub with its presence in fully fledged Banking, offering a full array of banking products, Capital Markets encompassing Investment Banking, Wealth Management and Stock Brokering as well as Insurance. Backed by a well trained, highly skilled Team of Professionals the NDB Group is well positioned to take on the challenges arising from the country's programs for economic reconstruction and development." He also went on to mention that while NDB Bank is indeed proud and honoured with this felicitation; it is shared with the valued employees of the Bank and its loyal customers; without whose dedication, commitment and patronage this achievement would not have been possible.





Omission leaves Sreesanth 'heartbroken'

January 18, 2011, 9:29 pm

Paceman Shantha Sreesanth has admitted to being "heartbroken" after being omitted from the India squad for next month's World Cup. The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) selection committee chairman Kris Srikkanth has announced the 15-man India squad in Chennai after holding a meeting with the remaining four selectors. Munaf Patel, who guided India to a sensational one-run victory against South Africa in the second one-day international at the weekend by claiming four wickets, filled in the fourth seamer's spot in the squad, ahead of Sreesanth.

The Kerala-born 27-year-old bowler did not play the first two games of the ongoing five-match series after he picked up a mild tennis elbow in his bowling arm during the one-off Twenty20 game in South Africa on January 9.

Sreesanth was expected to return to action for the remaining three matches of the series, which is now level at 1-1, and the World Cup omission has come as a big jolt for the paceman.

"I am so heart broken," Sreesanth tweeted after the names were read out by the selection committee chairman.

"But it's lack of faith that makes people afraid of meeting challenges, and I believed in myself," the bowler continued. Sreesanth, who earlier played a key role in the series levelling 87-run victory over the Proteas in the Boxing Day Test at Durban by picking up three wickets in the second innings, was recently bought by his home Indian Premier League franchise - Kochi - for 900,000 US dollars for the fourth edition of the tournament.

Sreesanth, who has represented India in 51 ODIs and 24 Tests, has also been hit by disciplinary issues over the last five years and was docked 10% of his match fee for breaching the ICC Code of Conduct during the fourth day's play in the final Test against South Africa.

Sreesanth, a firm believer in God, has vowed to overcome the current setback with divine help.

"I will keep giving my very best to the game no matter how small my chances are..I truly believe in God," the mercurial paceman tweeted once more.





