Andrew Strauss has said that he has the full backing of Kevin Pietersen after being unveiled as England's new Test captain at Lord's.

The left-hander, 31, will lead England on the upcoming tour to the Caribbean in two weeks and believes he is the right man to take the team forward following a tumultuous 48 hours in which Pietersen resigned and coach Peter Moores was sacked.

Strauss said: "I recognise that this isn't the easiest time to take the role but clearly we have some exciting and world class players in our dressing room and the task ahead is to ensure that we play to the best of our ability in the months and years ahead."

The selectors met yesterday to discuss the make up of the squad and the captaincy for the one-day and Twenty20 internationals. Strauss said that a decision was still to be made on whether he would take up the role as one-day captain as well.

The Middlesex player revealed he had contacted Pietersen after being asked to take over by the ECB, saying: "I had to think about it carefully, the ECB came to me yesterday and asked if I would be interested in the job if KP was not to carry on.

"I believe I can do the job and believe I am the right person to do the job at this stage, it is important there is leadership at the moment.

"It was important I spoke to KP about the reasons I took the job."

Strauss also denied the divisions within the England team are as deep as has been suggested although he acknowledged they had to be addressed immediately.

He said: "You believe the rifts in the dressing room are greater than they are.

"From the points of view of some players and some of the management we need to get it sorted out. I've got some conversations with some players and I'll happily do that over the next week and move forward."

Strauss added: "I would also like to add my appreciation for the efforts of Peter Moores who showed great enthusiasm and determination to take the England team forward in his role as England team director.

Asked whether there was sympathy for Moores, the outgoing England coach, Strauss said: "He had shown a lot integrity and he didn't deserve to go out in this fashion."

Strauss was confirmed only as Test captain and he said discussions would take place over his role with the one-day team.

Pietersen managed only five months in the captaincy after he was named Michael Vaughan's successor in August following England's series defeat to South Africa.

He won widespread praise for persuading his team-mates to resume their tour of India after the Mumbai terror attacks. But on the field, England failed to defend a 387-run target during the first Test against India in Chennai and it is believed that the relationship soured during that Test.





