If Ian Goonetileke was living today (3rd January, 2009), he would be celebrating his 87th birthday. But that was not to be. He passed away on 22nd May, 2003. The vacuum he had left in the field of bibliography and documentation, as far as I know, has not been filled. Although I do not want to say it, yet, I believe, it would be a very long time before someone would even attempt to fill that vacuum.

Today, he is remembered by scholars mostly for his five volume Bibliography of Ceylon (Sri Lanka). The set of five volumes available at the Search Room of the National Archives, shows how extensively it is being used by scholars engaged in research. The information contained therein up to the 1970's, cannot be had from any other single reference work on the subject areas covered in those volumes. In an appreciation, I wrote after his death, I said that someone should edit and publish the material he had assembled for his proposed 6th and 7th volumes. To my knowledge, such a volume(s) has/have not been published as yet.

I believe, today, there are hundreds, or is it thousands, of librarians and documentalists in the island. There are also faculties (?) or courses in Sri Lankan universities for such students. I also understand that there are post-graduate courses available to pursue higher studies in areas connected with such studies. These faculties and students should examine the material left by Ian, and see in what way they could make them available to research scholars. Perhaps, it would be too daunting a task for a single person to handle that work, but it would be worthwhile to consider whether it could be done by several persons, under the guidance and supervision of an able documentalist, and perhaps the results published in fascicles. The fascicles can later be bound into a volume or two. That would also be a cue to continue that work in the same or modified format, for the benefit of research. After all this is supposed to be the Age of Information.

One great drawback for the continuation of the bibliography work would be the lack of persons with a good knowledge of English. But, that should not be an insuperable barrier, at least, for the editing and publishing of what is already available on cards. I only hope that what was taken to Peradeniya after Ian's death is safe in that great Library.

I also recall reading in the newspapers that a new building is being constructed (?) at Peradeniya, to house the invaluable George Keyt paintings he donated to the University.

For Ian, it was a personal treasure; but in terms of today's monetary value they must be worth millions of rupees. I hope the projected building would come up soon, and those paintings would be made available for the public and the scholars to view and study, that unique collection.

Ian was not a person who sought publicity for himself. It was his great scholarship, dedication to work, and the quality of what he published that attracted the attention of intellectuals and scholars, from all parts of the world. I recently heard that the Library at Peradeniya has a new Librarian. I hope he would be able to look up the cards Ian had written for his projected volumes, and assemble a group of able and eminent persons to edit those cards and publish them in whatever way that could be done.

It would be a great contribution to scholarship, and a lasting tribute to Ian.





