'Ebert Silva', a pioneer in the realm of travel and tourism in Sri Lanka, has earned the goodwill of the nation for over eight decades. Established in 1925, the company is today in the forefront of the industry with a fleet strength of over 350 vehicles. The fleet comprises luxury cars, micro and mini coaches and luxury buses of latest models making it the largest and latest privately owned fleet.

The company has also been felicitated on numerous occasions by the Government of Sri Lanka such as the "Best Company in Transport Business" by the Ministry of Transport and The Chartered Institute of Transport of Sri Lanka among others.

Ebert Silva Holidays (Pvt) Ltd, a subsidiary of the Ebert Silva Group, promotes this resplendent land as the 'Paradise Destination' offering both local tourists and foreign travellers with personally designed and customized packages to explore, experience and enjoy this unforgettable Isle of Serendipity thus offering the local traveller a 'window' or a new vista to experience the world. The services would be provided with the highest degree of safety, quality and reliability, which is the hallmark of the Ebert Silva Group.

Among the outbound packages is "Sambuddha Vandana", the deluxe Buddhist pilgrimage tour to India and Nepal giving an opportunity for Buddhist pilgrims to visit and witness the most sacred and sacrosanct places of the life of the Buddha in safety and comfort. The luxury tour is designed for 11 days covering sacred holy places such as Lumbini - the birthplace of Prince Siddartha, Bodhgaya - the holy place where Prince Siddhartha attained enlightenment, Samath - where the first sermon was delivered, Kushinara - where the mahaparinirvana took place.

Sravasti, the biggest town in the Gangetic plains during the Buddha's lifetime, Nalanda, the most renowned university in ancient India, Rajgir, the capital of the powerful Magadha kingdom ruled by the virtuous king Bimbisara, Vaishali where the Buddha preached the Ratana Sutra and Kapilavastu, where Prince Siddratha was born, are visited among other sacred site.

The key features of these tours are, accommodation and meals in 3-star or higher luxury hotels, transportation by luxury A/C deluxe coaches throughout the tour, limiting to a small group of a maximum of 30 persons including a tour guide from Sri Lanka, an insurance cover of Rs. 300,000 per person, and the services of an experienced Indian tour leader during the Buddhist pilgrimage among others. An unique feature of the tour is undoubtedly the rare occasion of viewing the sacred relics of the Buddha found in Kapilavastu now enshrined in the National Museum of India in New Delhi. Other packages of Ebert Silva Holidays are to China, Thailand, Singapore, Malaysia and Myanmar added to other customized packages.

Among the Inbound packages are the "Heritage Tours", including package tours such as to Kataragama, Anuradhapura, Polonnaruwa, Kandy and Sigiriya. The "Wildlife Tours" encompassing Yala, Wilpattu, Udawalawe and "Nature Tours" exploring Sinharaja, Kukuleganga and the tours to the scenic Nuwara Eliya and Horton Plains etc. We further offer exciting "Adventure Tours" that includes white water rafting, trekking, diving and wind surfing which are popular and much sought-after among the locals as well as the foreign clientele.

Travel with Ebert Silva Holidays and make your next holiday an unforgettable and memorable experience. Join us and 'Experience the Difference'.





