Fiscal difficulties, power play and devolution key areas to watchRajapaksa's election victory bodes well for investment- led growth, provincial development

By Devan Daniel

An international bank says President Mahinda Rajapaksa's election victory bodes well for investment-led growth and provincial development but as to how fiscal and political power issues play out would have to be closely watched along with how a political solution is reached with regard to ethnic minority.

A report published by Citigroup said a strong mandate for Rajapaksa bodes well for investment led growth given his thrust on infrastructure development across ports, aviation, energy resources, roads and electricity and housing for all.

It cited Rajapaksa's election manifesto's target of eight percent GDP growth each year over the next six years.

Rajapaksa's re-election bodes well for provincial development as well "and the devolution of power to the Provinces under the 13th Amendment. In his manifesto, the President also pledged to hold elections in the Northern Provinces to establish democracy," the Citigroup report said.

The report said there are three broad areas of factors that would have to be watched closely.

"In the coming months, key issues include: (1) The fiscal front – where higher public sector salaries will likely result in slippages to budget targets stipulated by the IMF, particularly in the run-up to parliamentary elections.

"(2) Tackling the subject of rights to the Tamil minority sensitively – a closely watched issue by the international community, particularly since neither candidate had advocated concrete measures for power sharing.

"(3) Whether Rajapaksa will dilute some of the powers of the President, as pledged in his election manifesto," Citigroup pointed out.

Yesterday, dealers told the Island Financial Review that with the presidential election now behind us, foreign investors would begin to emerge from their wait-and-see attitudes and start investing while domestic businesses may also begin to consider investing on expansions and new ventures.

"But parliamentary elections are still ahead and until that too is behind us there would still be some uncertainty," a dealer said.

On the fiscal front, the government has passed a Vote on Account for Rs. 362 billion for the first four months of 2010 and there is uncertainty as to how the fiscal position would turn out for 2010 where the budget deficit is supposed to be contained at 6.5 percent of GDP.

"The government knew there was a war and the global financial crisis was in effect when the 2009 Budget was formulated. What we have seen throughout 2009 is fiscal indiscipline and this has to be corrected so that people are given full benefits of economic peace," an economist said.

No different from any government in Sri Lanka's post-independent economy, data available for 2009 suggests that expenditure estimated as actual recurrent expenditures rise. Revenue generation has come under severe pressure although an improvement can be seen from the previous year, but could still be below 2009 targets. Capital expenditure, as usual when recurrent expenditures over shoot targets, has taken hit.

The fiscal deficit has expanded 30 percent during the first nine months of 2009 while revenue improved by 12 percent with total government expenditure and net lending increasing by 19 percent and capital expenditure declining by 2.7 percent.

The overall budget deficit for the first nine months of 2009 reached Rs. 322.6 billion or 6.5 percent of GDP increasing 30 percent compared to a deficit of Rs. 246.9 billion for the corresponding period of 2008 which was 5.6 percent of GDP, according to Central Bank data.

The fiscal deficit increased by 56.42 percent to Rs. 297.2 million during the first seven months of the year from Rs. 190 million for the same period last year.

The Central Bank in a report titled 'Recent Economic Developments' Highlights of 2009 and Prospects for 2010' published in November 2009 said revenue collection for the year would be below the estimated target in the 2009 budget.

"According to revised estimates prepared by the Ministry of Finance and Planning in July 2009, the total government revenue for 2009 would be Rs. 727 billion (14.8 percent of GDP), reflecting a shortfall of about Rs. 127.3 billion compared to the original target of Rs. 855 billion," the Central Bank said.

Total expenditure and net lending increased 19 percent to Rs. 844.7 billion for the first nine months of 2009.

Recurrent expenditure for the first nine months of this year amounted to Rs. 661.5 billion, a 26.2 percent increase from Rs. 524.1 billion for the corresponding period last year.

"This increase was mainly due to the increases in interest payments (an increase of 63 percent to Rs. 253 billion from the corresponding period of 2008), salaries and wages (20 percent increase to Rs. 204 billion) and pension payments (17 percent to Rs. 62.6 billion).

"High interest rates that prevailed in the domestic market and the significant amount of domestic borrowings during the latter part of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009 where the main reasons for the significant increase in interest payments," the Central Bank said.

"According to revised estimates, total expenditure and net lending in 2009 is likely to decrease by about Rs. 117.6 billion to Rs. 1.07 trillion compared to Rs. 1.19 trillion expected in the original budget," it said.

"However, recent developments indicate that recurrent expenditure would increase over and above the revised estimates mainly due to the high domestic interest payments.

"Capital expenditure would be below the targeted level given the difficulties in maintaining domestically funded capital expenditure and mainly due to the lower than expected performance in government revenue," the bank said, pointing to the continuance in the trend of sacrificing capital expenditure — long term public investments — over recurrent expenditure.

The President promised public sector wage increments in his manifesto, although much lower than what his rival Sarath Fonseka pledged, but the Central Bank last November warned against such a move given the country's fiscal constraints.

2010 is expected to be a challenging year to maintain fiscal discipline, but analysts said failure to do so could bring back inflation, high interest rates and economic growth led by government spending without real productivity gains.





