The Centre for Monitoring Election Violence in a statement issued to the media on Tuesday said that in comparison with the violence recorded on the Presidential Election Days in 1999 and 2005, Election Day of the 2010 was considerably less violent. In 1999 there were 816 major incidents and in 2005, only 242.

On Election Day, CMEV recorded a total of 178 incidents of which 94 have been categorised as major. The highest number of major incidents, 26 cases of intimidation in the vicinity of polling stations – were recorded in the Kandy District. Eight (08) of the 94 major incidents involved were the use of firearms. The Kurunegala District, which had recorded the highest number of major incidents during the campaign (36), recorded 04 incidents of violence in this category on the Election Day, illustrating a feature noted in other elections of a high incidence of campaign violence not being replicated on the day of the election.

The Interim Report released by CMEV contained its observations on the election campaign. The CMEV noted their concern about the challenges to the electoral process highlighted in the election campaign which ranged from the flouting of the authority of the Election Commissioner to the abuse of state resources, to problems with voter identity documentation and voting arrangements for IDPs as well as the high incidence of violence in this first postwar, peace time election in decades. Accordingly it reiterated the call for the implementation of the 17th Amendment to the Constitution, in particular the establishment of independent commissions for the Police, public service and Elections, it provided for. The statement said the 17th Amendment did not constitute a panacea and that it was not a sufficient measure to ensure the integrity of the electoral process, but rather a pivotally necessary one.

The statement said, "The concerns raised in our Interim Report remain. We wish to highlight three issues in addition to the incidence of violence recorded on Election Day. The first relates to the demonstrably unsatisfactory transport arrangements for IDP voting, which resulted in the effective disenfranchisement of a number of IDPs. In a Media Communique on Election Day, CMEV highlighted the case of 300 IDPs who on account of delays in transport were unable to vote after having waited hours for that transport. CMEV learns that they were left stranded thereafter and that there were other IDPs who were placed in a similar predicament.

"The second issue relates to the series of explosions in Jaffna that occurred before polling commenced and immediately thereafter. CMEV believes that these acts of violence were perpetrated to reduce the voter turnout in the peninsula and calls on the agencies of law and order to bring the perpetrators of this violence to justice. Such violence in particular compounds the challenges of peace, reconciliation and national unity.

The free and fullest participation of the people of the north in the democratic process of the country is to be welcomed, not impeded and undermined."

The CMEV also highlighted the concerns raised by party agents and members of the public about the integrity of the count. CMEV shares these concerns and has received complaints alleging that party agents were both assaulted and chased from counting centres in a number of districts. Complaints to date had been received from the Kurunegala, Anuradhapura, Polonnaruwa and Matale Electoral Districts. On 27 January, CMEV wrote to the Commissioner regarding this, urging him to publicly acknowledge and address these concerns before the official announcement of the final result.

CMEV says that it would issue a full report on both the campaign and Election Day incidents once all filed reports from its monitors had been compiled.





