On the 15th December I wrote in The Island an article with a similar title – What to do with MR. My intention was to invite MR to bring about a paradigm shift in our current politics. In short, clean up. On the part of us, citizens, the paradigm shift could be brought about by following the five precepts I had proposed. I shall quote them again later in this article. From what is going on I do not see either the UPFA or MR lifting even their little fingers to do something about it. Time is running out and, whether we like it or not, we have to take a decision.

The need of a paradigm shift in our politics is keenly felt today. The people are not just fed up but utterly disgusted with and loath the corrupt politicians, their disgraceful life styles and their arrogant antics. Except for a very few, all the politicians of National parties, Sinhala parties, Tamil parties and Muslim parties are in cahoots with thieves and racketeers and engage in under hand deals. Our country had been always governed either by an SLFP-led alliance or a UNP-led alliance. But today among our shameless, spineless politicians we do not know who belongs to which party; they have been jumping from one to the other so many times. And both these parties, however much they may rail against each other and accuse each other of corruption and other misdeeds, when they come to power they protect their opponents. Nobody is ever taken to task and punished. Not just individual politicians but these political parties are corrupt. The parties have neither discipline nor character. It is only in our blessed land that, whatever happens, politicians never ever resign their post and go home. Vat scam, anybody resigned in the UNP? Hedging deal, anybody resigned in the SLFP? Was anybody taken to task? No, all go scot free. And all of them collectively laugh at us, the people, whom they consider fools and impotent idiots.

The Daily Mirror on the 13th reported that a child of 14 years, in Matale, committed suicide because there was no money to buy a set of new exercise books to go to school. This is not an isolated incident and I narrated it only to show the plight of the poorest working class people of this country. If the poorest in a country are not looked after, its leaders are failures. I say this very seriously. For most of the young women and men who made the supreme sacrifice to save this country are from this stratum of our society. If their life is not made easier and comfortable we, and this country, are ungrateful to them and despicable. Their life is becoming more and more difficult. The cost of living is rising steadily. Where is the peace dividend? If the war is over why cannot the war expenses be used to make life easier for that section of our society to which belong the families of the war heroes? We, the simple people, cannot understand this. During the war we tightened our belts for the sake of the country. We expected to loosen them a little after the war but we are still forced to tighten them more and more. How come? All we know is that the politicians get one lakh a month for house rent alone and we find it more and more difficult to buy a kilo of rice and sugar just to survive. I suppose we have to go on tightening our belts to support an enormous cabinet of parasites and an endless string of Presidential Advisors who receive a Presidential dole, meaning doing nothing for it. The lack of social justice is a result of bad governance especially in an SLFP regime which calls itself a left of the centre party. Of course, we do not expect social justice from bogus trickle down economics of a capitalist party like the UNP. If SLFP fails the poor then it is not because a pro poor socialist ideology is not there but simply because there is rampant selfish corruption in the party and in the regime.

I am sorry to disagree, not totally, with SL Gunasekara. whom I admire and whose latest book, 'Rajapakse Vs Fonseka', I read a couple of days ago. For him the only issue is the protection of the country, its independence and its self-respect. Though he almost sounds paranoid I agree with him wholeheartedly. But for me the issue of the eradication of poverty in our country is as important as the other. Because one without the other is meaningless. It is true that MR achieved the first part. History will remember him gratefully. But can he deliver the second part? He has not shown he can. Rather he doesn't seem to be even interested. We were patient with all the jokers and crooks around him because he needed them to bring the war to a successful conclusion. But he still keeps them and the Treasury keeps on doling out millions to them. This is money that rightfully belongs to the economically weakest section of our society and, never forget, our war heroes belonged to that section. I am sad to say I begin to doubt that MR is capable of achieving the second part. As the opposition says it will be more of the same or worse.

And so we come to my question. What to do with SF? I will always and anywhere gratefully raise my hat to General Sarath Fonseka, our hero. He with MR and others get the credit for achieving the first part of liberating the country. He bears the glorious marks of honour and heroism on his body, more beautiful than shining medals and badges. But we know what those, who are behind him and support him, are up to. They are up to no good. They have lost all credibility. Sudu Nelum, Thawalam, the traitorous CFA, the Millennium City betrayal, the constant ridiculing and demoralizing of the fighting forces and talking against the country and its people abroad were the low type of activities they were engaged in during the whole of the intense fighting to save the country. They could have at least kept silence; they didn't. They do not deserve to be in politics in Sri Lanka. Except the JVP members the others who support SF are real liabilities. I'm sure it is they who coined the slogan "Believable Change", a typical aping and imitating of Obama's campaign, a non nationalist gesture and another liability. If he wins he will win in spite of them. We know SF loves the country as much as MR. We can be sure he will not allow the country to be broken up and will safe guard its self respect. He will never be a traitor. But the important question is will he deliver the second part successfully, the second "Operation"? In other words is he capable of making a paradigm shift in our politics? Is he a Hercules who can clean out the Augean stables? He promises to do so. We have only his word for it though we can rely on the JVP to support him. The others are surely going to pull him by the leg; they are beyond redemption. But will the JVP be able to make his economics lean more to the left and pro poor than to the right? The opposition campaign, like its make up, is so disparate in its motives, so unclear and vague voting for them is a gamble. We have only the promise of a single man, strong and a dedicated. So the choice before the people of this country is WHO will be able to and sincerely wish to bring about a paradigm shift in our politics by eradicating corruption, nepotism, poverty and misery, MR or SF? For me this is the main issue in this election. We shall deliberate, discuss and make an intelligent decision by considering all the pros and cons, regarding the main issue, of the two main contenders to the Presidency.

Elections in Sri Lanka have become a blood thirsty Moloch that demands human sacrifice. Already blood has been shed in various places as if the soil of this country were not saturated enough with all the blood shed for thirty long years. When will we realize that this is the result of the crooked, violent, idiotic, gutter politics that we engage in? If we do not bring about a paradigm shift in our politics and stand it on its head we will never have an honoured, respected place in the community of Nations. Therefore, whoever wins, we the people must, for the sake of our future generations and the glory of our Motherland, decide firmly to bring about a paradigm shift in our governance. When the parliament elections come around in April let us use our precious vote strictly according to certain principles. I have proposed five and here they are.

Precept I. I will not vote for a person who does not declare his assets and publish the same in the national newspapers for the perusal of the public. The honesty and the integrity of the candidate must be clearly seen. He must show that he is selflessly coming forward to serve the nation and the people. It is not enough they show it only to the Election Commissioner. Those who are reluctant to declare their assets to the public are simply not trustworthy and do not deserve our valuable vote.

Precept II. I will not vote for a person who is known to have connections to the underworld and behaves (even a member of his family) like a thug in public. Those who cannot control their anger, who when in power take revenge from the political opponents, who take the law into their hands, who intimidate and humiliate the ordinary citizens of the country when they travel on our roads are simply not suitable to be the leaders of this country.

Precept III. I will not vote for a person who already has a relative or a family member in the Presidency, Parliament, PC or the PS. Our politicians are mere mediocre nincompoops. There are exceptions, of course. The truth of the matter is they are fattening themselves on our national wealth; they are parasites. They are shamelessly rapacious and greedy. It is enough that there is one parasite in the immediate or the extended family of the candidate. We, the voters, need not go and make them, a whole family of, a tribe of, parasites.

Precept IV. I will not vote for a candidate who after winning a seat has crossed over to the political party in power. Changing sides for ministerial posts, to avoid corruption charges or for other perks is an indecent act. It is an ignoble betrayal of those poor voters who placed their trust in him. Of course they will justify their actions. They will have hundred and one reasons to show how selfless and nationalistic their action is. But we know who they are, born liars who have sold their souls for a mess of pottage.

Precept V. I will not vote for a person who has either said or done anything against the Nation's sovereignty, integrity or its good name. This precept needs no elaboration. Who can vote for a traitor to lead our country? It would be national suicide.

My only prayer these days is that Sri Lanka be blessed with an honest, strong and patriotic leader who deliberately and publicly makes an option for the poor of this country.





