Richard Pieris & Company (RPC) carried out another community service project by donating valuable school equipment packages to the children of its staff members recently. Five sectors of the company, namely, the rubber sector, tyre sector, plastics sector, retail sector and services sector of RPC came together to make this donation a success.

The initial ceremony was spearheaded by the Richard Pieris Tyre Company in the presence of Mr. Renton de Alwis, Chairman, Sri Lanka Tourist Board, as the chief guest and the senior management of the company in attendance. This was the second time the tyre sector made such a donation to its employees' children.

Inaugurating the program, Pravir Samarasinghe, Chief Operating Officer of RPC said, "Our Company is the market leader in retread tyre manufacturing sector in Sri Lanka and we have managed to build and sustain this position in the market for a long time. The secret behind our success is the committed workforce we have with us and it is befitting, we thought, to support their children with their education as a way of showing our appreciation towards their contribution to the company. Hence, this book distribution ceremony was organized."

School going children of the employees were categorized under six segments and the donations were made to suit each category's requirements. More than 500 children from Year One to Advanced Level benefited from this programme and each child got a gift pack worth more than Rs. 1,500/-. Tyre Sector will be making such similar donations to children of the employees who are attached to their factories in Kurunegala, Pallekele and Weligama, thus making the total number of beneficiaries more than 1200 this year vis-a- vis a 250 last year.

"Richard Pieris & Company that has identified 'MEN' as their most productive and valuable resource out of their 5M-resource base, has taken numerous measures to motivate its staff members and the distribution of books was part of ensuring the welfare of their children. Further, RPC is known as a company that touches lives of all Sri Lankans across the island and this includes our staff as well.

We firmly believe a happy and contented employee base is the core success factor of a company and always take measures to support and be part of their lives." said VK Jayawardena, Head of HR of RPC.





