Stunted growth, injuries and missed opportunities in school.These are the things kid fighters in Thailand have to trade off to earn little pocket money for themselves and their families

Nearly 8,000 underage children in Thailand have now entered professional boxing rings and face the risk of physical injury including brain damage, according to a survey by bangkok's Ramjitti Institute.

Most of the young boxers come from the country's northeast.

For each fight, a child boxer earns between 50 baht and 600 baht (US$1.58 and $19)—half of which he must give to his boxing camp.

"Because these children are younger than 15, they cannot register themselves as boxers and are therefore not protected by boxing laws," Deputy Social Development and Human Security Minister Poldej Pinpratheep said.

The laws entitle injured boxers to compensation if they are injured during a match.

"Most young boxers want to earn money for their education and their families. However, after they enter professional fights, they often miss their classes and are finally pressured by their teachers to quit," Poldej said.

He said boxing also affected the brain and joint development of young boxers.

"If their development is adversely affected, the children may become undersized," Pojdej added.

Dr Uthen Pandee, a lecturer at Bangkok's Ramathibodi Hospital's emergency medicine department, said punches usually hit the young boxers' head, face, eyes, teeth and oral cavities. Teeth are often dislodged. In some cases, young boxers sustain brain damage, he said.

According to Uthen, some boxers faced abrupt paralysis, while others will experience slow mobility and deteriorating memory when they become middle-aged.

Chatchai Komaratat, who heads Chulalongkorn University's academic and research service centre, said underage boxing could really subject youngsters to brain damage.

"If boxing organisers follow academic principles, risks can be minimised by almost 100 per cent," he said.

He said these principles required the use of protective gear such as headguards and that boxers be matched with an opponent of similar height, age and weight in the ring.

"We should clearly promote the fact that boxing matches by young children will not focus on violence. Also, we should lay down proper qualifications for boxing schools, boxing camps and their executives," he said.

Chatchai said authorities such as the ministries of education, sports and tourism and boxing associations should work together to ensure boxing safety among children.

Sappasit Khumpraphan, who heads the Centre for the Protection of Children's Rights Foundation, said child boxing should be limited to shows—not for professional fights.

"If young boxers have to really box and fight, rules must be carefully written to ensure children's safety," he said.

Sappasit commented that the Children Protection Act in fact banned children from fighting in the ring but the Thai Boxing Act allowed children to fight.

Pinsinchai Boxing Camp owner Sawek Pinsinchai said most young boxers came from poor families and wanted to earn money from fighting.

"We have doctors ready by the ringside," Sawek said, adding that children must start learning the art of Thai boxing from the age of seven or eight to excel. "If you wait till the age of 15, it's too late," he said.

Sawek said the government should enforce safety measures but should not bar children from professional boxing rings.

Despite activists' opposition and efforts by authorities to control the controversial sport, child boxers insist they have no choice but to endure the hardship and pain to make ends meet. Krissana "Mac" Jaroenwong, 12, said he could now afford an education with his earnings from boxing, which he took up two years ago. Mac began boxing for money prize six months ago, starting at 200 baht ($6.58) and now earning up to 600 baht ($19.76) per bout.

The only child of separated parents, Mac lives with his grandparents in Chiang Mai's Hai Ya district. He now has 3,000 baht ($98.84) in savings and recently bought a 3.75g gold necklace for his grandmother, he said.

Rattana Khuenkaew, owner of the Seripharb Gym which trains Mac, said the boy volunteered to box and no exercise overload had been forced on him.She said the gym had limited his bouts to only two a month and all child boxers practised only on weekends and were allowed to attend classes all week.

Twin sisters Phannipha "Bew" and Saowinee "Bow" Chaiyathes said boxing had caused them no visual or hearing impairment nor serious injuries but plenty of bruises. The girls, 14, said they now realised that it was important for child boxers to begin training at a young age if they wanted to be good.

Bew and Bow, whose ringnames are Taphao Kaew and Taphao Thong, were impoverished when they took up boxing at age seven at a gym in their home province of Kalasin. Both have won several major prizes in Thai boxing and have now turned to international boxing.

Bew is practising for a coming bout in Kalasin for an international title. If she wins, she will be qualified to challenge for a youth World Boxing Council title. The girls disagreed with efforts to control child boxing, especially Thai boxing, which is a traditional sport.

Dr Sombat Ritthidej, a deputy dean at Faculty of Education in Maha Sarakham Rajabhat Institute, who started the Child Watch Project, said he paid for his education with prize money from boxing, but only after entering adulthood.

"Children tend to give limited consideration to boxing and the hazards that go with it. They can easily get carried away by the cheers, compliments and victories," he added.

Somwang Khamthun, manager of Sor King Star Gym in Khon Kaen province, said he had never heard of disabilities or stunted growth in children who boxed. Child boxers are graded by their skills anyway, meaning those not good enough will not be paid to box after a few years in the ring, he said.

He said many parents brought their sons, or daughters in some cases, to his gym after child boxing became popular. The young fighters are required to wear protective head and body gear and can fight for only three rounds in each bout.

Deputy Education Minister Varakorn Samkoses said there were around 20,000 child boxers under 15 in the northeast alone and only about 100 of them made it to the famed rings like Bangkok's Lumphini or Rajdamnoen. Many stop boxing after sustaining a variety of injuries, especially to their heads and brains, he said.





