I had a look at the women's page of the same website. Female ads seemed more honest, such as this one: "Hong Kong female, age 38, seriously looking for a good and sincere man for marriage. I am fun to be with sometimes." The presence of "sometimes" on the end of that sentence means that's a girl you can trust.

But the most blisteringly honest personal ads in the world come from Ireland. Here are three:

"Bitter, disillusioned Dublin man, lately rejected by longtime fiancée, seeks decent, honest, reliable woman, if such a thing still exists in this cruel world of hatchet-faced bitches."

"Devil-worshipper, Offaly area, seeks like-minded lady, for wining and dining, good conversation, dancing, romantic walks, and slaughtering cats in cemeteries at midnight under the flinty light of a pale moon."

You occasionally get honest ads from Asia, such as this recent one from Bangladesh: "Male, 34, Dhaka. I am a fighter looking for who will fight with me. Interests: Chess, cricket, cooking something special, jokes, singing, fighting with someone special."

Here's an honest one I saw last week in an Indian newspaper: "Female, 22, non-veg. I am very emotional as 70 per cent of Indians are."

For me, ads in US publications are a little bit TOO honest, as this real example shows: "Desperate lonely loser, SWM, 32, miserable, apathetic, tired of watching TV and my roommate's hair fall out. Seeks depressed, unattractive SWF, 25-32, no sense of humor, for long talks about the macabre." (SWM is single white male and SWF is single white female.)

Some advertisers ask for too smuch. This is from a personal ad I saw recently on a Sri Lankan dating website: "Male, 20, from Ettampitiya area. I'm looking for a girlfriend who should be a friend, a sister, a mother and a lover to me. That's all."

The first personal ad ever appeared in the UK's Manchester Weekly Journal in 1727. Helen Morrison wrote a tiny note indicating that she wished to make the acquaintance of a pleasant gentleman with whom to pass the time. She was arrested and committed to an insane asylum for four weeks.





