Give something to the poor and they might well sell it. It is obvious, but this simple problem often wrongfoots those attempting to address social issues, because they usually end up in the illiberal position of deciding what needs to be done to protect the poor from themselves. It sounds like a bad idea.

Ferial Ashraff, Minister of Housing, confronted this dilemma the other day as she handed over some 800 new houses to slum dwellers in Borella. The Government would like everybody to have a proper place to live, which means somewhere that is spacious enough for all their family to eat, sleep and pass the time in between, somewhere that has access to clean water, decent sanitation and hopefully electricity too, and somewhere that is strong enough to withstand the impact of the regular storms and floods that we face. It is a meaningful aim, and progress is certainly being made, but it seems that a lot of slum dwellers find themselves selling any new houses that they receive from the state.

There can be a number of reasons. People live in slums wherever they are most likely to be able to find work or an outlet for whatever they can produce at home, and they need to have the possibility of expanding when their families grow and improving as their lives become more secure. There is therefore a difference between upgrading facilities in an existing neighbourhood, and flattening it altogether and building flats or removing people to new settlements in the suburbs. The former is a good idea that would benefit from safeguards to prevent abuse of the system. The latter almost never works as anticipated, no matter what rules and regulations are put in place, and certainly not without the enthusiastic support of the residents, and probably not without a lot of additional investment from the state as well. It is usually only attempted to free up land in the city centre for what superficially appears to be more profitable development. The type of scheme matters.

Whatever, there will always be people who opt to take the money instead, if only because they desperately need it to pay off debts or to spend on more urgent things. Slum dwellers are poor.

Ferial Ashraff told her audience in Borella that the Government is planning to deal with this dilemma by passing a law banning the sale of all new houses provided under the Urban Development Programme. It can never completely put a stop to the practice, but it will help. Besides, this is not just about ensuring the well-being of slum dwellers. There is also a balance to be struck between the right of individuals to do as they please, and the responsibility of the state towards society as a whole in taking care of public health, protecting the environment and so on. The state must also be seen to spend the people's money accountably and effectively, and there are other ways of giving money to the poor, so it is hardly efficient to do this same thing by building houses for them to sell. It sounds like common sense. Of course, better results for slum dwellers would still require the adoption of the right approach, but that is another story. Meanwhile, in a confusingly contrary move, similar legislation that already exists in another sector is gradually being undone. State land given to landless people has historically been subject to restrictions to prevent them from losing it through poverty, but this is set to change, and all land grants and permits are going to be converted to freehold titles. Strangely, the proposal first came from the World Bank. It was worried about sluggish growth in the agricultural sector, which it said was problematic for the economy as a whole, and it put this down to the fact that a lot of inefficient and insecure farmers were occupying much of the cultivable land with small plots of paddy. Something radical had to be done. It suggested that the poorer farmers should be allowed to sell up and move out of agriculture, so that the richer and supposedly superior farmers could acquire more land and then raise their productivity by switching to cash crops and investing greater sums of money in technology and so on. It is wishful thinking. The change will affect well over one million families who cultivate at least two and a half million acres. They produce an important part of the basic food crops that sustain the people of this country, and it is well known that most of the money made in this process goes to intermediaries. Farmers are largely unorganised, and each person produces only a limited quantity for sale, so they have little hope of bargaining with the all powerful traders, while state purchasing mechanisms do not yet work properly. It leaves most of them poor. A fair few are also already in debt. Illegal transfers of land are hardly unheard of, but the scale of accumulation necessarily remains small, so a good number of the more than one million families retain control of their land to date. There may well be a lack of buyers when farmers are allowed to sell. Let's hope so, because land is not only somewhere to live, but it is a means of survival for the majority of these people. It consistently provides food, if not always a worthwhile livelihood.

The World Bank expected the losers in its scenario to be absorbed into some other sector of the economy. Plans should surely be more carefully worked out. It seems only too possible that they will end up as slum dwellers needing new houses under the Urban Development Programme.

Indeed, one wonders whether it might even be land policy that has resulted in slums remaining a relatively small problem in Sri Lanka. United Nations figures show that this country has one of the lowest urban populations in the region at 23%, while only 14% of this number lives in slums, compared to 55% in India, 74% in Pakistan, 85% in Bangladesh and 92% in Nepal. Similarly, far richer countries face much more difficult situations. For example, Brazil estimates that 82% of its total population lives in urban areas, of which slums account for 37%, while South Africa registers 58% of its total population in towns, of which 33% is in slums, and Indonesia claims 42% of its total population resides in urban areas, of which slums make up 23%. Anyone who has visited the major cities in these countries would surely advise caution, especially when considering the lengths to which the authorities there have been tempted to go in some of their slum clearance efforts in recent years.

There are other issues to consider too, like the impact on food production, but this question will lie unanswered for now. Financially speaking, it seems that the process of converting these land grants and permits to freehold, which is being tied up with a change in the system of land administration from deeds to titles, is going to be tremendously costly. A pilot initiated by the previous PA government, and supported by the subsequent UNP administration, covered only a fraction of the country and cost almost $7 million. Half was borrowed from the World Bank. Nevertheless, while Ferial Ashraff was speaking in Borella, preparations were underway for a ceremony the following day at the Presidential Secretariat in which 100 land owners were presented with titles to mark the nationwide launch of the Land Titling Project. It sounds risky. Everybody would be free to do as they wish in an ideal world, but poverty is far more limiting than any laws against selling houses and land ever could be. It is better not to be poor in the first place, but being poor with a house and some land is surely better than being poor without, for it provides both comfort and possibilities. We are not actually talking about protecting people from themselves, but about protecting them from their poverty. It is a good thing.





