Ponting first ball duck welcomes 2010 but New Delhi pitch farce shows... SLC silence over Indian slur, players were 'chicken' at Kotla

by Trevor Chesterfield

The Chesterfield Files

Welcoming a New Year, if not stepping into the second decade of the 21st Century has already brought its share of drama and controversy.

Just ask Ricky Ponting how tough is, Yahaluweni. A first ball duck at the Sydney Cricket Ground against Pakistan in your first innings of the year, is not the sort of memory to have, especially after winning the toss and deciding to bat and trusting your instincts against sharp new-ball bowlers such as Mohammad Asif and Mohammad Sami.

Sucker as he is for the hook, Ponting elects first ball up to take on Sami and the look on his face would tell you that the fireworks they have in Sydney to welcome the New Year had been reignited. Especially as Phil Hughes, who has been recalled, had fallen the previous ball for an unconvincing ten-ball duck: six balls more than the duck he recorded at the start of his career at The Wanderers, against South Africa.

Watching the Baggy Greens disintegrate they way they did is like watching a soggy paper bag full of groceries you are carrying falling apart, the contents despoiled by falling into a dirty puddle. It maybe fun for some in an era where batsmen have largely dominated, because of favourable conditions, but not that enjoyable for those at the receiving end.

And watching these two of the Mohammad brotherhood in action does suggest how fortunate Sri Lanka were when they were not included in the Pakistan side. Asif was allegedly injured, yet he should have been serving a ban for a drug related offences and Sami because he had done nothing more offensive than play for the Indian Cricket League.

Banning players because they were part of a rival league and the Board of Control for Cricket in India didn't like it, is the sort of low trick you find politicians play, carrying out to discredit a decent, law abiding opponent. Had these two been on tour, it would have been interesting to see how the Pakistan bowling attack would have shaped bowling strategy. Mind you, before this Sydney Test, Sami's eighty one wickets in 33 games at an average of 51.37 explains why he didn't play on the New Zealand leg of the antipodes tour.

In fact, my island Test player for 2009, Rangana Herath, wasn't even part of Sri Lanka's game plan when the series was about to start against Pakistan in Galle. By the end of the tour of India, his contribution was impressive: 34 wickets at 1151 for an average of 33.85 should earn better recognition than it has.

But as you find, there are those in this island, who begrudge hardworking bowlers their successes and that is disappointing for rewards for the just are seldom recognised. It is why, when all the fuss was being made over Ajantha Mendis, you really wondered if there were those who did not know their history too well. The careers of trick finger artists, Jack Fingleton and Johnny Gleeson fizzled after electrifying starts.

Mendis may return, but he will need to reinvent himself as a bowler and employ a better strategy if he hopes to extend his career, while the worthies such as Herath and Malinga Bandara have been around a lot longer and know the conditions a lot better. This is why, having finally acknowledged Mendis as a failure on his first testing foreign assignment, it is pleasing that the selectors have finally given Bandara a chance on this Bangladesh tour of slogs.

Batsmen who use their feet to bowlers such as Mendis soon have his measure and while Herath, despite the batting of Virender Sehwag in the Kanpur and Mumbai, where his strike rate was impressive, at least kept his line and length. Mendis buckled at Green Park and his fielding exposed his level of coaching standards in the leagues he played before his international career. Watching him field became an embarrassment, one as fraught as that by the rotund Thilina Kandamby who struggles around the boundary at the bigger venues.

It will be interesting to see how he shapes up in Bangladesh in a new look squad which has some promising fresh talent to this level which is creating a lot if interest. It will also be interesting to see how the Sri Lanka team shapes up in the field. Kumar Sangakkara and Muttiah Muralitharan suggest the team needs to step up their fielding skills, but when you view the names of the management and coaching staff on tour, who do we find going on another 'paid holiday'? Why, it is Manoj Abeywickrama!

It would be interesting to know what level certificate he has in coaching; whether it is a local one or Australian or from England.

How different to when Trevor Penney was in charge of the fielding side of the game and one where the captain at the time, Marvan Atapattu, said he understood the value of such a coach in the side and it is why the side were always sharp in their fielding skills. What Sri Lanka has is a fumbling joke and it is not going to improve until they get someone who understands the value of fielding.

This is while Mahendra Singh Dhoni has called for bowling and fielding coaches for India to relieve the burden on Gary Kirsten. If you look at a touring squad such as England now in South Africa, they have two: Otis Gibson, a West Indian who has had a career that includes county cricket in England and first-class in South Africa as well as the Caribbean and who looks after the fast bowlers; the other is former Pakistan Test and ODI leg-spinner Mushtaq Ahmed, who helps the spinners.

Sri Lanka, it is being suggested by the interim committee hierarchy, doesn't need a bowling coach. The shadow genius Chandika Harturusinghe and deputy coach Stuart Law are quite capable of handling the bowling needs. Yeah... Sure... Like standing at the nets and shouting orders, instead of encouragement and giving advice. As with the fielding, the bowling was exposed in India not so much because of the injuries that meant players were being forced to return, but because the bench strength wasn't up to international level because of the Premier League level of the game in the country, which points a finger at the levels of coaching.

There is a lot of rhetoric going on, but as you quickly learn from the 'bada' politicians, talk is cheap and promises made all too often forgotten, hoping the public will do so as well.

As it is, SLC and the interim committee seem to walk in some trepidation of big brother BCCI across the straits. As with the fiasco outside the Premadasa Stadium, when police charged spectators back in August when it took almost a month to comment and apologise to the public for that debacle, SLC has yet to issue any comment on the Ferozshah Kotla pitch fiasco of eight days ago.

Sangakkara has been too much of a gentleman to be critical of the shoddy handling of the debacle by the Delhi District Cricket Association, other than saying the pitch was unfit to play on. Yet, the feeling is that had it been Australia, England or South Africa, the game would have been called off within the first eight overs.

As it is, Delhi's discredited cricket hierarchy are in panic mode in what can only be described as bizarre efforts to cover the gaping cracks in their flawed association; they are like politicians who have been caught in a flagrant lie, yet unable to accept culpability or responsibility.

As the possible threat of International Cricket Council slapping a ban on the capital city's venue looms, political wannabe and DDCA vice-president Chetan Chauhan adopted the typical gung-ho approach when he accused the Sri Lankan players of being "chicken" – in other words, cowards, if you check your thesaurus – because they were afraid of being beaten in the abandoned fifth limited overs international game, because of poor pitch conditions.

He also used old Raj style jingoism to attack the ICC's match referee Alan Hurst's decision to call off the controversial game in the middle of the 24th over of the Sri Lanka innings.

What has the SLC done? So far, mumbled something about awaiting the outcome of the report by Hurst on the appalling pitch conditions, a warning of which was made back in October how the New Delhi stadium's surface was such that batting was a matter of playing a game of Russian roulette.

There was no protest or rejection of such claims made by Chauhan. In fact, one SLC source says they didn't read such comments. Which suggests they don't wish to be seen objecting to such a flagrant use of abuse by a so-called leading administrator of the host.

According to a confidential report sent to the ICC who examined the venue on November 4, it appears that the main problem is the quality of the soil used in the last two years; it is substandard and has been badly prepared. It means that whoever is at fault needs to answer a few questions as well as how do they play a game on an untested surface and what they are getting out of it.

It is amazing how India, with all their money, manage to get the basics wrong. This gives the impression because of their internal politics and the actual cricket concerns are not a high priority. It shows a system that is no only incompetent but run by those who feed on their narcissism, to the detriment of the game.





