In a further demonstration of Turner's industry-leading position in the mobile industry, Sri Lankan national mobile service provider Sri Lanka Telecom Mobitel is to offer its customers access to CNN's latest global news content through one call.

With a few clicks, Mobitel customers can watch CNN breaking news and the latest top stories, weather, business, entertainment, politics and more on an on-demand basis simply by dialing 555. A key advantage of this service is uninterrupted content delivery when compared to web and WAP-based streaming where delays can be experienced due to content being buffered. Mobitel customers can also enjoy the added convenience of replaying previous news stories within the same video portal.

Commenting on this new initiative, Leisha De Silva Chandrasena, Chairperson Sri Lanka Telecom Mobitel, said: "The mobile phone is fast becoming an important platform for the dissemination of information due to its high penetration and efficient reach. Further, mobile TV and Video on Demand are also gaining popularity since it allows you quick and efficient access to know the latest happenings around the world despite being caught up in this fast paced world. The partnership with CNN International is yet another landmark development for Mobitel following its recent partnership with Google the leading global Internet company."

A further significant advantage is the fact that no software or special configurations are required by customers to access the service. For the benefit of 2G phone users in particular, CNN's latest global news can also be accessed via WAP by logging onto wap.mobitel.lk.

On the new service, Siddharth Jain, Vice-President and Deputy General Manager – Distribution & Business Operations, South Asia, Turner International India Private Limited (TIIPL), said: "Sri Lanka is an important and exciting market for Turner International and CNN in the region. Partnering with a leading player like Sri Lanka Telecom Mobitel certainly provides a national footprint for CNN International to reach out to a wide consumer base in Sri Lanka. It is a win-win initiative for the consumers as they get to know what's happening around the world from the world's leading global news network via the leading mobile platform of Sri Lanka."

Suren J Amarasekera, CEO, Sri Lanka Telecom Mobitel, said: "We are excited about the partnership with CNN International which will benefit our customers where they will be able to watch the latest in the world news over a video call. In keeping with our promise "We Care. Always" Mobitel will always innovate to bring in services that are more relevant for the customer and at the same time easily accessible. The selection of CNN's global news is simple as one is able to select the feature through the Mobitel 3G video portal by dialing 555."

Ringo Chan, Vice-President of Wireless and Interactive Content, Development and Distribution, Turner Asia Pacific, commented: "Turner continues its commitment to lead in delivering content to consumers in the region in the most innovative way. Working with Mobitel to provide this easy user-friendly interface empowers the user to get CNN's news and information anytime and anywhere."





