North and East has not expressed gratitude to President Rajapaksa - Asgiriya Mahanayake

by Cyril Wimalasurendre

KANDY: The people of the North and East have not expressed their gratitude to President Mahinda Rajapaksa despite basic facilities like food, roads, transport and houses being provided after relieving them from the grip of terrorism, the Most Ven. Udugama Sri Buddharakkitha Mahanayake Thero of Asgiriya, said when former UNPer S. B. Dissanayake called on him yesterday (28).

The Mahanayake Thero said that the people of the South had shown their gratitude to the President in a bigway.

However, the prelate said that the people in all parts of the country should be equally treated.

The Mahanayake Thero said that Agriculture should be boosted by providing adequate water and other facilities so that the country could achieve self-sufficiency.

Special interest should be taken for the reconstruction of tanks and the reservoirs in the North and the East.

Dissanayake told the Mahanayake Thero that the government would treat them without discrimination.

The government will provide every assistance to the Tamil and Muslim communities so that they will not feel that they were being discriminated, Dissanayake said.

The prelate of Malwatte Most Ven. Tibbatuwawe Sri Siddhartha Sumangala Thero told Dissanayake that political differences should be set aside as elections were over and that all groups and leaders should join hands to develop the country.

The prelate urged a full scale inquiry into the death of a Bhikku in the Gampola area, in a post-election clash, be held.

The Mahanayake Thero also urged that the security to General Sarath Fonseka not be reduced in any form.

The prelate said that all citizens had the right and freedom to engage in politics.

Dissanayake responding to the Mahanayake Thero, said that the Security to General Sarath Fonseka was not brought down.

However, there was an incident of taking into custody a group of army deserters at the hotel where Sarath Fonseka was in occupation.

The army deserters had with them hand-cuffs numbering sixty to seventy. Why they had so many hand-cuffs is a question, Dissanayake said.

The matter is under investigation, he added.

UNP and Opposition Leader Ranil Wickremesinghe, Rauf Hakeem and Mano Ganeshan were also in that hotel, Dissanayake told the Mahanayake Thero.





