The Island-NewsTeacher unions yesterday condemned the murder of the Principal of the Samanala Maha Vidyalaya in Gilimale by a gang, allegedly led by a member of the Ratnapura Pradeshiya Sabha, on Sunday.

General Secretary of the Ceylon Principals Service Union T. L. Lal Chandrakumara in a media release said: "The murder had been committed by a UNP PS member cum private tuition teacher notorious for political violence. We demand that the culprits be brought to book immediately. The principal had earlier complained to the Sabaragmuwa Chief Minister and police of the threats and intimidations of the suspected PS member, but no action had been taken to investigate the complaint and to provide security. This murder indicates the UNP's culture of political thuggery".

General Secretary of the Ceylon Teachers Service Union, Mahinda Jayasinghe in a separate release demanded the arrest of the killers. "The PS member's private tuition class business had not been allowed by the Principal and this had led to a personal dispute. There had been threats from the PS member against the principal. The complaints made by principal had not been investigated by police most probably due to the pressure from politicos. The CTSU condemn the murder and negligence on the part of police and Chief Minister of the Sabaragamuwa Province."

General Secretary of the Lanka Pirivena Teachers Service Union, Wavve Wijithawansa thera condemning the killing called upon authorities to witness the pathetic situation the education sector had been pushed down to by successive governments. "The tuition teacher, who had not been allowed to use the school premises to conduct classes and his thugs had assaulted the principal with clubs. The suspect is a member of the UNP that drove the free education system towards its collapse. The UNP allowed the mushrooming of private tutories that compete with each other in exploiting parents. This crisis has now grown out of proportion and it is only now we are witnessing the consequences.

Successive governments had not thought of controlling tuition businessmen and the incumbent government too has failed to take any action. Before its too late the authorities must take immediate action to arrest the damage to the society done by private tuition businessmen," the thera's release said.(SI)



