I want to tempt my co-readers to share their anecdotes about our leaders who have left their foot-prints on the sands of time, with another story about Dudley.

The main story appeared in my essay on "Political pressure on Public Service backbones" that appeared in the Sunday Island of October 25, 2009. Today I wish to add a sequel to it to focus on the relevance of public service backbones to political leadership. The original anecdote was as follows:

When I was Government Agent, Trincomalee, a man who was a butcher had been getting his supplies by shooting others' cattle by night. One day he got caught red handed. The DRO found him guilty and suspended his licence.

The DRO concerned happened to be a nephew of a leading politico of the SLFP which was then in the opposition. The butcher had complained to the Minister overseeing the district for the UNP (DM), that the suspension of the licence was an act of victimization, as he happened to be the only UNPer in the village. When the DRO was asked to report, he suggested that the matter be closed by restoring the licence, evidently to avoid being bothered on his uncle's account. I cancelled the licence altogether.

The DM had raised the matter with the Minister of Home Affairs who sent me an order in characteristic purple ink ordering me to restore the gun licence but I flatly refused to carry out the order. The matter did not end there.

The frustrated DM used his influence to sublimate his disappointment by getting the DRO transferred out. I refused to release the DRO and addressed a direct letter to PM Dudley direct. The letter explained that the achievements of the district were realized by the team headed by me and the officer transferred was a very active member of that team.

The DRO had nothing to do with the cancellation of the gun licence for which I was personally responsible. I could not sit back and turn a blind eye to the injustice done to the officer. The letter ended up asking Dudley to have me transferred out before my team member was unfairly victimized.

I had made up my mind not to stay in the district even one day after my man was taken away. If the government refused to transfer me out, my only option was resignation but I had nothing to fall back upon after losing my job. Waiting for Dudley's response was very stressful. But my consternation came to an abrupt end with a telephone call from Colombo. It said that Dudley had ordered that I could keep my DRO as long as I wished.

But my troubles did not end there. The general election was round the corner and the DM who was piqued by the sequence of events, refused to organize the election campaign until I was transferred out. According to him, I was a staunch SLFP supporter. But Dudley would have none of that nonsense. He decided to replace the Minister rather than the GA. Came the election, Dudley was thrown out of power and I was thrown into the 'Pool' as a staunch UNP supporter!

Now to the sequel; roaming from pillar to post in search of a substantive job, I called on M Rajendra, the Secretary to the Treasury and the Head of the Public Service. He listened to my tale of woe with visible sympathy and remarked,

"I am glad I resisted Dudley's orders to transfer you".

"Did he really want me moved out?" I asked in shocked disbelief.

"Yes. He was heavily pressurized closer to the election," replied Rajendra and added, "But I regret resisting a similar order on that other fellow".

Soon after the election, the 'other fellow' had been catapulted to a top job, over the heads of his seniors but soon found out.

The sequel spotlights two hard facts: A leader's courage may sometimes be rooted in the independence of a public servant. And in the absence of a reliable test of performance, a public servant's reputation is made or marred by rumour, often self-imposed.





