Attitudinal barriers have hindered the battle against HIV/AIDS through awareness campaigns in Sri Lanka, a workshop attended by doctors, health activists and journalists from South Asia heard.

Prabu Deepan, Project Manager of the NGO, Save Lanka Kids said: "We had sought permission from 90 school heads to conduct awareness campaigns but only 21 responded positively. Even highly westernized international schools declined the request. We expected that Colombo's leading popular schools would appreciate our attempt, but sad to say only schools in remote areas in provinces welcomed the idea of eradicating the disease through knowledge of early precautions."

He was addressing the two-day workshop on Strengthening Media Professionalism and the NGO-Media Interface in India, Pakistan and Sri Lanka which commenced at the American Center in Colombo yesterday.

"According to unconfirmed, yet reliable statistics, at least 1,100 abortions are performed in the country every day. This is not only an indication of the number of unwarranted pregnancies but lack of basic knowledge in sex education. Projected against this, the lack of knowledge in STD including HIV/AIDS could be guessed by any sound mind," Deepan said.

The attempts to fight against the illnesses by increasing awareness of the HIV/AIDs in younger generations had been cold shouldered by authorities citing cultural and political reasons, said Dr Sujatha Samarakoon of the National STD (Sexually Transmitted Diseases) and AIDS Control Programme of the Health Ministry.

"Whenever we had sought permission to conduct awareness campaign in schools, we were confronted with an arrogant and hostile disposition. Then the Health Minister came to our assistance so that we could obtain permission for our programmes ," she said.

Finally a limited space and time had been allowed by relevant ministers and this resulted in the inclusion of three questions in the recently concluded GCE Ordinary Level examination. Upto 1,059 positive cases have been reported from Sri Lanka. Authorities estimate there are more than 4,000 HVI/AIDS positives at present.

Milinda Rajapaksa, Coordinator of Lanka Plus, an NGO engaged in providing welfare and caretaker facilities to the HIV/AIDS infected, said: "The Government has ratified the International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD) and pledged to increase awareness of STDs and reproductive health. But they do not put that into practice."

Health Minister Nimal Siripala de Silva told The Island that he had fully backed increasing awareness campaigns among the young, but had some problems with certain bureaucrats.





