News FeaturesEuropean Commission 

 The European Commission is deeply concerned by the assassination of the Chief Editor of the Sri Lankan The Sunday Leader newspaper, Lasantha Wickrematunga who was shot last Thursday near Colombo. The Commission extends its profound sympathy to the family of Mr. Wickrematunga. 



 Benita Ferrero-Waldner, European Commissioner for External Relations and European Neighbourhood Policy, said: "I was deeply shocked to learn about the assassination of Lasantha Wickrematunga, the Chief Editor of Sri Lanka's The Sunday Leader newspaper.



 This attack comes just two days after a privately-owned television station was attacked and set on fire and follows several incidents of harassment and threats to journalists in Sri Lanka that have occurred over recent months. Our concerns about the freedom of the media, already under severe pressure from assaults and intimidation, have been exacerbated by the killing of Lasantha Wickrematunga.



 As in other countries where the safety and independence of people working in the media are under threat I express my admiration at the willingness of Sri Lankan journalists to continue their work in the face of risks like these. 

 I call open the government to put in place protection mechanisms to ensure the safety of journalists in Sri Lanka. It is essential that citizens continue to benefit from media providing free and accurate reporting on national affairs. I urge the Sri Lankan authorities to take all necessary steps to bring the perpetrators to justice, as there can be no impunity for these terrible crimes." 



 SLPI Directors 

 The Board of Directors of the Sri Lanka Press Institute expresses shock and horror at cold blooded murder of theThe Sunday Leader Editor Lasantha Wickrematunga by yet unidentified gunmen. 



 It is well known that the late Wickrematunga had an adversarial relationship with both the incumbent government as well as its predecessor. This killing has taken place just two days after the armed attack on the MTV/MBC television station at Depanama.



 Inaction over previous such incidents has created a public perception that both these attacks may have involved a state agency and it is incumbent on the President and the government to dispel such suspicion by a thorough and meticulous investigation. No suspects have been arrested over recent attacks on media personalities including Keith Noyahr, Deputy Editor of The Nation and Namal Perera of the Sri Lanka Press Institute.



 The transparent investigation and speedy arrest of suspects is most essential in the interest of all concerned. The Directors of the SLPI urge the government to utilise all resources at its command to bring the killers to justice. 



 Rt. Rev. Duleep de Chickera, Bishop of Colombo

 The assassination of Editor of The Sunday Leader Lasantha Wickrematunga, in broad day light on a public road in Colombo, sent mixed shock waves of anger, fear and desperation through the country. This deliberate and senseless act must be condemned by all Sri Lankans who value life and media freedom. It is part of a wider and worsening strategy to suppress and silence the media. 

 I extend the condolences and assurance of the prayers of our Church to his wife Sonali, his children and the rest of his family; as well as the staff at the Sunday Leader. May the God of truth and consolation sustain you through the difficult days ahead and guide you in the ways of courage and truth that Lasantha himself strived towards. 



 Mr Wickrematunga was a leading media personality, committed to investigative journalism. His assassination, in times like these when truth is deliberately distorted, is a severe blow to the responsible role the media is called upon to play in our journey towards a just democratic culture. It is also an indication of the worsening crisis in good governance and the fast deteriorating law and order situation. 



 In these circumstances it is only the collective response of a mature, courageous and sensible political, civil society and religious leadership that can prevent the country from plunging into inevitable chaos. 



 National Peace Council of Sri Lanka 

 Barely three days after the MTV television station was bombed and razed by an armed group, armed assassins have claimed the life of one of Sri Lanka's foremost journalists, Lasantha Wickrematunga. 

 The killing of this courageous journalist will add to the sense of intimidation and fear in the media, which has already suffered several such attacks and killings of media persons.



 As Editor of The Sunday Leader, Lasantha Wickrematunga was fearless in exposing political weaknesses and corruption in the government and in society in general, and the impunity that accompanies them. 



 He also advocated a negotiated political solution to the ethnic conflict and highlighted the cost of the war which the government is undertaking. Although an individual, he was also the creator and leader of a media institution and his assassination can be construed as a death blow to media freedom to take up the issues he did. 



 Lasantha Wickrematunga will long be remembered by those who believe in the role of the media to create a politically literate society which alone can protect democracy. The National Peace Council condemns his assassination and mourns his loss. We grieve with his family, colleagues and friends and trust that his sacrifice would mark an end to a culture of impunity that seems to be overtaking us. 



 Thinking people can only reflect on Pastor Niemoller's saying, who is next? At this time, in our helplessness, we can only appeal to the government and our political leaders to follow democratic and righteous norms and ensure that the freedom of expression, freedom of media, and the Right to Life of all is protected. 



 United Kingdom 

 We condemn in the strongest possible terms the continuing acts of violence and intimidation against the media in Sri Lanka, including the attack: on 6 January on the MTV headquarters and the killing today of the Chief Editor of The Sunday Leader. 

 We welcome the stated commitment of the government to investigate these incidents. Prompt action to hold those responsible to account is essential in creating an environment in which people from all communities in Sri Lanka can live without fear and in which progress on a political solution to end the conflict will be possible



 Editors Guild 

 The Editors Guild of Sri Lanka condemns the assassination of The Sunday Leader Editor Lasantha Wickrematunge in the severest possible terms and records its disgust at the trend in which media freedom, or what is left of it in Sri Lanka, is being trampled upon. 



 This incident, coming in the wake of the arson attack on the MTV/MBC station early on Tuesday morning, clearly displays a complete disregard for Democracy and the Rule of Law. 



 What we are witnessing is an ongoing campaign against the dissemination of information to the citizenry and democratic dissent. An adversarial relationship between any government and the media is good for governance and Lasantha epitomized this. 

 It is also the inalienable right of the people to be kept informed and to decide on the choice of media.

 What is most disconcerting is that there is no real attempt to stop, or in the least, discourage this violent campaign that has been unleashed. 



 The finger, therefore, would point in the direction of the Government due to the inaction on its part to stem this slide into authoritarianism that the people of this country abhor. 

 The Guild calls upon the government to investigate this despicable crime and expresses its sympathies to the family of Mr. Wickrematunga. 



 National Christian Evangelical Alliance of Sri Lanka 

 The cold blooded murder of Mr. Lasantha Wickrematunga, Editor of The Sunday Leader newspaper has struck the death knell to media freedom in our country. We strongly condemn this dastardly act of assassinating one of Sri Lanka's most eminent journalists. This closely follows the despicable act of bombing and burning of the MTV and MBC studios. 



 While all Sri Lankans looked to the dawn of this New Year with hope of peace, the New Year seems to have ushered in intimidation and suppression of the free media by dark forces. If this violent trend is not arrested and the rule of law is not respected, Sri Lanka will be drawn in to an abyss of death, destruction and anarchy. Further, Sri Lanka will loose its place among the civilized and democratic nations of the world. We call upon all right thinking people of this nation to stand up and speak out against these atrocities and strengthen the hand of the government to bring in law and order and restore sanity in this our once proud nation. My government and I most vehemently and unequivocally condemn the murder of Mr. Lasantha Wickrematunga, Editor of The Sunday Leader.

 I am both aggrieved and shocked by his tragic death as Mr. Wickrematunga was a close friend of mine whom I have known for many years as a courageous journalist.



 This heinous crime points to the grave dangers faced by the democratic social order of our country, and the existence of forces that will go to the furthest extremes in using terror and criminality to damage our social fabric and bring disrepute to the country. It is significant that such an attack was carried out at a time when the country is gaining repeated victories over the forces of terrorism, in our efforts to establish freedom and democracy throughout the country.



 I have directed the Police to conduct the most thorough investigation to bring to book any and all persons responsible for this act of brutality, with maximum speed.



 On this sad occasion I extend my deepest sympathies to the members of the family of the late Mr. Wickrematunga, to all his colleagues in The Sunday Leader and associated newspapers, and in the profession of journalism.



 Despite grave threats of this nature, my government reiterates its commitment to upholding the principles of Media Freedom and Freedom of Expression, even under the most trying circumstances, as we have witnessed.



