News

 Padukka Police is hunting for killer/killers of an assistant accountant of a private firm situated in the Panadura industrial zone on Monday (5) evening, and the Police are trying to trace a vehicle seen by a villager reversing in the same area where the victim's body was found.



 The dead body of 43-year-old, Samarasinghe Arachchige Samudra Udeshika was found in an abandoned rubber estate in the Padukka Police area near Moragahena.



 The deceased Samudra had been working as an assistant accountant at Natural Products Company, and had been to her work place as usual that day. She had left office around 4:50 p.m. in the evening to go home. 



 Her husband who works as a registrar at a private tuition class had received a call from his wife informing him that she would be somewhat late to come home, since she was to go to a driving school to fix a date for driving lessons. He had been used to waiting at Horana town to collect Samudra every evening.



 Samudra, her husband and two children, a son of 15 and a daughter of 13 were living at Kudauduwa area in Horana. 

 On Monday night, he had returned home without Samudra as she failed to reach Horana well past the usual time of arrival. His mobile phone battery was also dead by that time. However, Samudra had received a call from home and she had told her son that she was passing Bandaragama at the time of the call. Family members had kept up for her till the dawn of the next day.

 On Tuesday around 10 a.m. husband had complained to the Moragahahena Police that his wife did not reach home after work the previous day.



 Police sources said, in the meantime Moragahahena Police were informed of a dead body lying in a rubber estate through 119. The Police had visited the scene. The dead body had been first seen by a woman who had come to the estate for rubber tapping in the morning around 6:45 a.m. on Tuesday. 



 Horrified by the sight that a woman's body was lying there face down and blood patches on her head, the witness had run home. Halfway she had informed another rubber tapper who was working in an estate beside hers of what she saw. Then this person had informed the owner of the rubber plot that a dead body was laying there. The estate owner and this person had informed the Police of the incident. The case had been handed over to Padukka Police as the estate was located within the Padukka Police area.



 Police said that they inspected some injuries on the head of the deceased who was short haired and wearing a red skirt and a cream coloured blouse. Samudra's husband had identified the body and the magisterial inquest was conducted by the Homagama Magistrate Ranga Wimalasena.



 The corpse was taken to Homagama Hospital which had refused to conduct the post mortem there for some reason. Therefore on Wednesday the dead body was transferred to the Kalubowila Teaching Hospital for the post mortem.



 According to the post mortem report, the deceased had been beaten on the back of the head with a blunt instrument which was rounded at the top. The death occurred due to scull fracture and internal injuries to the brain, the report said.

 There were no outward signs of rape to be seen on the body however parts of the body were sent to the Government Analyst to ascertain that, Police said.



 Padukka Police are conducting investigations on information they received from a villager that he saw a Dolphin van reversing in the area where the body was found and tyre marks were also there. Police suspect that some person or a group had first throttled her and then smashed her head to make sure that she was dead.



