News FeaturesVegetable and fish prices still remain high despite reduction in fuel prices 

 The Rs.16 billion relief package that was presented by the government last Tuesday has spawned sceptic ideas regarding its true value. Even though the measure taken to reduce the cost of living is bleeding the government dry of crucial resources, it is done with the hope that the 2009 Budget deficit of 6.5% can be maintained as planned. 

 The crucial question now is, are the people getting the benefit? The Nation spoke to several people on whether the bag of goodies given by the government is trickling into their wallet. Several sectors were specifically targeted to give much needed relief to the masses. 



 Each time the government lowered the price of fuel, it claimed that it expected the price of vegetables and fish would go down due to the reduced transport cost. But a significant reduction of prices cannot be seen when one compares the prices of these items before and after the reduction of fuel.



 Statistics staid 

 Deputy Director of Research, Hector Kobbekaduwa Agrarian Research and Training Institute, Dr. L.P. Rupasena claimed that the prices of vegetables and fish are generally high during the festive season. "There has been no significant reduction of commodity prices after diesel was reduced. But the thing is, December is a month where the vegetable and fish prices are high, so it is a bit difficult to say whether the cost of transport has had an affect on the prices," Rupasena said.

 He added that transport charges of several essential items have remained unchanged even after the price of fuel has gone down. "To transport a 50 kg bag of rice from Anuradhapura, the lorry owners charge Rs.60. To Polonnaruwa it is the same price, to Maradankadawala it is Rs.75 and to Tissamaharama it is Rs.85. They charged the same when a litre of diesel was Rs.110," he said. But he added that in some instances, the lorry owners have reduced transport costs. "To transport a 30 kilo bag of onion from Puttalam now they charge Rs.70. They have reduced Rs.10. The transport charge of a kilo of potatoes was down by 50 cents," he added.



 Transport tangles 

 When petrol price was at Rs.157 and diesel at Rs.110, it was considered that the high price of fuel was the major reason for the high commodity prices in the country. But the relative steadiness and sometimes even increase of the prices of commodities, even after diesel was brought down to Rs.70 and petrol to Rs.120, have lead many wondering why the benefits are not passed on to the public. 



 Consumer Affairs Minister Bandula Gunawardane noted, "The CTB and private bus owners have both agreed to bring down the bus fares. The three wheeler drivers are yet to be issued coupons, but when we do that we expect them to lower their fares. But the thing is, in some areas three wheeler drivers have cut down prices when the price of petrol came down to Rs.122, but some have not. The issue is that these fares are not regulated. Through registering three wheelers we took the first step, so I hope that something can be done."



 As far as the National Transport Commission (NTC) is concerned, bus fare reduction is under the purview of the respective Provincial Councils and it is their duty to ensure that the 4.3% reduction is effectively implemented. However, with the readjustment of route anomalies for around 770 routes, it is unclear how effective the 4.3% decrease has been. With the revamping, many routes have had their fares increased and even when the fare reduction is factored in, a significant drop is not noted. 



 NTC Chairman Dr. Amal Kumarage insisted that these anomalies had to be rectified in the Western Province and within the next six months, the rest of the country would follow suit. The first set of readjustments was introduced in 2005 and Dr. Kumarage stressed that the changes were beneficial to commuters. 



 "We are taking a huge risk making these changes now. But they had to be done. Understandably, the people are confused about all this, but proper awareness can change that. We have already impounded 77 licences of long distance buses that have not implemented the fare changes and will deal with them through an approved scheme of fines and legal redress." 

 Dismissing the private bus owners' plea that the government did not hold discussions with them before introducing reductions, Dr. Kumarage noted that fares could be changed in accordance with fuel prices without consensus from the owners. 



 Vegetable worries 

 The Nation visited the Colombo Manning Market to meet the lorry owners to get their side of the story. M.H.M. Mohammad, who owns a lorry that transports vegetables from the Manning Market to Aweriyawatta told The Nation that they have reduced the transport charges for each box of vegetables by Rs.10. "We did this when the government reduced the Diesel prices by Rs.30 and we might be able to reduce prices by a little more this year," he said.



 But Mohammad claimed that Diesel prices and related transport costs do not have a major impact on the price of vegetables in the Manning Market. He added that November and December are times when the vegetable prices are at their highest. "Mostly, it depends on the harvest and how much stocks come into the market. If a lot comes, the prices will go down no matter what the transport costs are," he said. "That's why there has been no significant drop in the prices of vegetables even though Diesel has gone down by Rs.40," he added.



 Ghost benefits 

 Despite the claims of the lorry drivers, many shop owners at the Manning Market said that these reductions have had virtually no effect on the prices of vegetables and fruits. "They claim that prices of spare parts and tyres have gone up and the reductions they have introduced are insignificant. So, we get the vegetables and fruits at virtually the same price and we can't give any relief to the people," said P.T. Hemachandra.



 The transport cost will only add or reduce several rupees to a kilo of vegetables, claimed Nimal Wimalasena who owns a vegetable store at the market. He added that the prices are decided according to the supply and demand. 

 "It depends on what you consider as an impact. Yes, it will increase or decrease the price of a kilo by two, three rupees but that's it," said Nimal Wimalasena. He added that although the price of Diesel went down by a large amount, it will not have a significant impact. "It is true that Diesel has gone down by Rs. 40, but it really depends on the level of stocks we get from outstations. When the price of Diesel went up the price went up too but not by a great deal as people think." He added. 



 Meanwhile, Siva Balachandran and Kumar who rent their lorry claim that they have brought down their transport fares. They said that when diesel was at Rs.110 they charged Rs.35,000 to transport fish from Colombo to Medawachchiya, but they have reduced the price to Rs.32,000 when the price had gone down to Rs.80. 



 "We brought the fares down as the prices went down. Although the price of fuel went down price of tyres, spare parts and the repair charges have gone up, that is why we could only reduce the fare by Rs.3,000," said Kumar. "But in my opinion it does not really matter how much we charge, but it's a matter of supply. That's why the fish prices have not gone down," he added.



 Fishy matters 

 Both fisherman and lorry owners use fuel and people assume that reduction of fuel will bring the fish prices down. But as with three wheeler drivers, the lorry owners and boat owners claim that the prices of spares have gone up counterbalancing the reduction of fuel.



 Mohammad Niyas, a lorry owner from Kalpitiya claimed that they charged Rs.120 to transport a 50 kg box of fish when the Diesel prices were Rs.110. But they have brought down that price to Rs.100 a box.



 "When Diesel was Rs.110 we charged Rs.120. Now we charge only Rs.100 for each box. When we divide that is only 40 cents for each kilo and that will have virtually no impact on the price of fish. The price of fish depends on yield. These days the yield is low but I believe that in the next few weeks the prices will go down." 



 "There are times when there are a lot of fish in our waters and in some months the fish are scarce. What happens is when diesel prices are high fisherman do not fish. Also during the times when there are little fish in the sea they don't fish. Therefore, the yield is low, naturally. And the lesser number of fishermen at sea means the prices are very high. But, since the diesel prices have gone down, more fishermen are fishing. I think the prices will go down in the next few weeks," he added. 



 But Damith Wasantha who works at a fish stall told us that the lorry owners have not decreased their prices by any significant amount. He also added that the transport fares have little effect on the price of food. 

 "It depends on the amount of fish that comes into the market. Anyway, this is a time of high prices in any year, so we can't say whether transport fares have any affect. But reducing Rs.10 from a bundle of 50 kilo fish will not have a significant impact on the fish prices," Wasantha said.



 Three wheeler quandary 

 Despite the claims that the reduction of Rs.37 on petrol cannot be seen in the three wheeler charges, President of All Island Three Wheeler Drivers Welfare Association, Lalith Vithanage said that three wheel fares have gone down accordingly.

 Nonetheless, the recent announcement made by the Cabinet of Ministers that the three wheelers will be issued fuel at a special concessionary price was met with scepticism by three wheel drivers. 



 "At first we thought that we could get petrol at Rs.100 a litre but later we realised that it was only a Rs.1,500 a month allowance. So, if you divide it and see it only amounts to Rs.50 a day," said Vithanage. He added that the three wheel drivers have already reduced their charges as the petrol prices were dropped. "Some three wheeler drivers have already reduced their fares when petrol became Rs.122," he added.



 Vithanage also pointed out that the government had not discussed installation of meters with them and that it was unfair to make this a condition for the concession. He noted that this was advantageous to the government since it could wash its hands off the matter, by laying the blame on three wheeler drivers for refusing to install meters. 



 Several three wheel drivers expressed mirrored views of this supposed price cut. 

 "So far from what I know, no steps have been taken to hand over coupons or instal meters in three-wheelers. And we don't even know what these regulations are. We also want to give relief to the people, but the problem is that we have no idea when this relief will be given to us," was the disgruntled response of N. Sivakumar a three wheeler driver in Pettah. 



 As most people, he too had thought that the price of petrol dropped by Rs.20 instead of Rs.2. "We do not know who handles the distribution of the coupons and the meters. No one has been issued this yet, so how do they expect us to pass on the 'benefit.' What benefit are they talking about?"



 "When Lanka IOC gave Petrol at Rs.100 we charged less, but now even that is not there. What can we do with that? When the prices went down to Rs.122 we lowered the prices by Rs.10. We can't lower it more because everything else has gone up. We do not belong to any association and each three wheeler park decides what their charges are.



 We had a lot more hires when the price of petrol went down to Rs.100 because the people knew that the fare would be low. But when the price is Rs.120 they are unable to meet costs, but we cannot blame them," was the opinion of Shantha Ranasinghe also from Pettah. 



 According to Sandun Silva of Kaduwela, "It all depends on the individual three wheel stand. They decide whether and by how much they will reduce or increase the fare. There are several three wheel stands in Kaduwela and each stand has different prices. Some might think my charges are very generous, while someone else might think them very high, depending on which three wheel stand they are used to."



