NewsJVP wants action against other forms of separatism 

 While being confident of military forces capturing Elephant Pass and Mullaitivu soon, the JVP yesterday called upon the government to ensure equal rights for civilians in the north who were liberated from the LTTE clutches by establishing democracy in the area soon.



 JVP General Secretary Tylvin Silva said this is not a minor victory, but a massive one achieved by all communities in the country, especially an achievement of the Tamil civilians. 



 "Even though some attempted to project this military victory as a victory achieved by the Sinhalese against the Tamils, we strongly believe this is not a time for such petty motives. It is a common victory and definitely not against Tamils. Such petty moves will only obstruct the move towards establishing lasting peace and unity by sweeping out separatism," he said.



 Silva noted that this is only a military victory against terrorism and separatism in one front, but separatism is in effect through various other ways and means that the government should concentrate on defeating.



 "Now the security forces have been able to defeat terrorism and separatism and will continue to do so until they capture the remaining 40 kilometres of land, which is apparently still under the LTTE, in a few days. But separatism is not operating from the military front alone. The government should address these issues immediately to ensure that military victories achieved so far would not be reversed," he added.



 The General Secretary noted that JVP will do its best to defeat spreading separatism in the political front.

 When asked whether they would approve government taking advantage of these military victories in the future elections, Silva said: "The government too has a right to claim its share of respect and pride in this achievement. But, it is not a victory achieved by them alone. Common man sacrificed a lot in ensuring this achievement along with the military forces. But, no one has a moral right to use it in gaining political or personal advantages, by any means."



