Business"Loyalty in business is difficult to build. And long-term loyalty is almost unheard of today. Loyalty can only be created if a company is willing to share its wealth creation with its people," explained Chairman of premier headhunting and placement company Executive Search Ltd and A.I.M.S (Appointments of International Management Specialists), Fayaz Saleem. He elaborated, "A generation ago, professionals rarely changed jobs, and it was no surprise that many worked in just one organisation throughout their careers. But this is now no longer true. The modern professional moves constantly within his industry, repatriates or starts up on his own, and companies wither, start up, expand. So corporates need to stay competitive if they are to attract and retain the best in people talent. A good corporate culture that empowers its people, encourages information flow, facilitates the cross-pollination of ideas, is the key to people success."



 Experience has taught Saleem that about 20% of those headhunted and offered positions do not accept, due to a variety of reasons. Although the common perception is that remuneration is the main incentive for professionals to move around, facts disprove this. According to Saleem, salary occupies about the fourth place on the list of requirements that a prospective candidate seeks in a company he would consider joining. Corporate culture heads the list. Try as he might, the mature and experienced headhunter may fail to convince a prospective candidate to pursue a lucrative job opportunity, if the culture of the prospective employer does not meet with the candidate's expectations. 



 Corporate culture can be defined as being the way in which a company conducts its business, its ethics, professionalism, and management of staff. Sri Lanka today boasts of about 100 well reputed companies, but not many can lay claim to a good corporate culture. Sadly, several companies have a turnover running into billions of rupees but still use archaic management practices, with rigid discipline, little or no room for individuality and personal development, and no tolerance of failure. 



 So what is the barometer to assess whether or not a company has got what it takes to recruit the cream of talent? It is now established that a company with a strong corporate culture is one that rewards people on performance, adds value with constant training, empowers its people and encourages co-operation. It is one geared to respond quickly and effectively to change, and achieves better results. It has two- way channels of communication and employees share values and ideals. Strong corporate cultures also focus on opportunities not problems, celebrate diversity; tolerate failure, and encourage people to have fun at work, thereby giving people confidence in the management and the system. Leadership skills also play a vital role. Managers lead and encourage the entrepreneurial spirit in employees instead of just micromanaging. High bureaucracy is another corporate trait that has a debilitating effect on employees. Organisational structures with too many layers, slow decision making, too close monitoring of processes and subordinates, with too many tools and documents, discourage creative thinking and stifle initiative. "People need, to feel that their contribution makes a difference. Poor vertical communication, where people at the lower rungs have no idea of the big picture, nor about what senior management is thinking and planning, has a debilitating effect on its people, and encourages them to pursue job opportunities elsewhere," said Saleem.



 Headhunting involves a confidential and careful process of focused networking and constant interaction with corporates and individuals. Like most professions, it takes years to build to a level at which the headhunter has the right candidate for the job virtually at his fingertips, or at least knows where to look when faced with the challenge of recruiting a high calibre professional in an industry with few prospective candidates. The profession is, today, proven to be the most effective method of recruitment to key positions the world over, especially in situations where only a small reservoir of talent is available to draw from, and newspaper advertising is not practiced due to the supposed lack of confidentiality it sometimes entails. 



 Suitable

 Placing the right person in the most suitable job slot is a two-way process, whereby the headhunter markets his client, namely the corporate in search of the right person for the job available, to his candidates, the job seeker or professional who is being head hunted. Each stage of the process requires skill and maturity in handling, which can only be achieved with experience. Once the headhunter and his client are convinced that the candidate is the right person for the job, the onus is on the headhunter to excite, interest and 'lure' him/ her into accepting the position on offer. Here again the skill of the headhunter comes to the fore, for the candidate must now be jolted out of his comfort zone and incentivised to the point of being willing to surrender the comfort zone of his present job and familiar environment, and face the challenges of a new job in an unfamiliar, still to be accustomed to, environment. But the headhunter will fail in his mission of recruitment, or if successful, the corporate may be unable to retain the employee, if its corporate culture is rigid and dictatorial.



 It is believed that the best candidates are passive job seekers, those not actively searching for a job and happy in their present position and organisation. They are, however, proactively thinking about their career and are not averse to a change if opportunities do arise. Passive job seekers are usually at mid to senior level, many with a high degree of expertise in their field. The brand value of the company, which includes its corporate culture, a challenging job, better perks and positions, could be suitable attractions to make them change their jobs. 



 Saleem is no stranger to most professionals in the highest rungs of business, and will celebrate three decades in business this month. Executive Search Ltd. functions as the umbrella organisation for headhunting human talent through several companies set up to handle recruitment at specific management levels. It is the oldest, and arguably the most established and best known firm of professional headhunters in Sri Lanka. At the helm of A.I.M.S, through which he personally headhunts the crème de la crème of corporate professionals with the assistance of two or three consultants, Saleem proudly claims to have provided all the multinationals based in Sri Lanka as well as most local blue chip companies and some organizations in the region, in the Maldives, India, Malaysia, and further afield in the Gulf and African states, with professionals for various high profile positions. HunterSkill, an associate company, does placements of mid level professionals while Executive Search Ltd. is its overseas recruitment arm for lower and mid level management. 



 The people profession requires continuous re-invention of jobs, profiles and requirements. The tools of the trade include a continuously updated database of candidate profiles, the skill of scanning innumerable sources of information for data on prospective candidates, keeping abreast of new qualifications and job requirements, changes in job profiles and new positions within industries, and the ability to search and research new and elusive candidates. Maliban, the perennial family favourite and trusted for generations by households across the country, launched an islandwide promotion whereby anyone who dispatched a total of 5 Maliban Cream Cracker wrappers to the Maliban head office was entitled to take part in a draw. The winner of the grand draw would be the lucky recipient of either a brand new Suzuki Swift car or else its equivalent in cash. 



 The winner was D.S.P Perera from Yakkala, who opted for a cash prize instead of the car, and received the sum of Rs 2.5 million from Director, Maliban Biscuit Manufactories, A.G.T.D Samaraweera, at a ceremony held at the Maliban head office in Ratmalana.



 The promotion was launched for several reasons. "The new Maliban Cream Cracker has been a resounding success with our customers, and we wanted to reward them for their loyalty towards the Maliban brand, whilst further attracting new customers", said Samaraweera. "Great brands were founded on a simple promise, in short – 'Hitha Pirenna'. A believable positioning statement, coupled with focussed and intense execution. One generally eats a Cream Cracker as a hunger stopper, it is an in between meals product. However Maliban Cream Crackers focus on the satisfaction one gets when consuming the biscuit; 'Hitha Pirenna '; a promise which has been more than fulfilled, judging by the reaction of the consumer towards this product."



 Apart from the grand draw, since the launch of the promotion in September there have been weekly draws with Maliban Cream Cracker consumers winning fridges, washing machines, grinders, microwave ovens, gold sovereigns and more.

 Even if you had won a prize earlier on in the promotion, this did not prevent customers from continuing to send in Maliban Cream Cracker wrappers in the hope of winning the grand prize as well, and judging by the tremendous response this is just what the Maliban consumer did! 



 According to Samaraweera, the Company's key strength right throughout it's long history has been it's emphasis on quality. "From the inception Maliban has focused on quality which has in turn built trust and loyalty amongst generations of consumers. This has been made possible because the House of Maliban has always been a brand close to the consumers heart, and the success of this promotion is a further reinforcement of our commitment to giving the consumer a quality, great tasting Cracker which is on par with any international product".



 The Company currently exports to over 20 countries in 5 continents. Maliban is a brand that has a wide global presence since the Company commenced exports as early as 1963. Maliban biscuits are currently being exported to Canada, the USA, UK, Germany, Italy, France, Switzerland, Australia, the UAE, Qatar, Bahrain, Kuwait, Maldives, Seychelles, India, Bangladesh and Ghana. Maliban biscuits also won the coveted gold award at the NCE Export Awards in 2006.

 Today the company is one of the few major food businesses that have the ISO 22,000 certification that relates to food safety. It is also first biscuit manufacturer to be awarded Super Brand status Civimech, has been awarded the coveted 'HVACR Contractor of the Year' for 2008 by the ASHRAE (American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers) Sri Lankan Chapter - 171. 

 "Actually these awards were awarded to us for the excellence we have shown during the year 2008, on projects completed by us. We handled in 2008 many large scale projects. Two such projects included a large scale garment factory called Benji (Pvt) Ltd. in Bingiriya belonging to Omega Line, and the 36 story Iceland Apartment Complex in Colombo 3. For the Iceland apartment complex we introduced the state-of-the-art VRV Air Conditioning system," Chairman/Managing Director Civimech Group of Companies, Ravindra Soysa said. 



 Apart from the 'HVACR Contractor of the Year Award', the company also bagged another conspicuous award as Civemech's Chief Engineer Indunil Jayawardena was awarded the 'HVACR Engineer of the Year 2008'.



 The company is currently carrying out two mega projects—Kandy Shopping Complex, which is the second largest building in Sri Lanka and another large scale garment factory called Alpha Apparels Ltd. belonging to Omega Line, Soysa further said.

 Expanding and diversifying its wings from A/C and refrigerating business Civimech Group of Companies has established two subsidiary companies, Civimech Agro (Pvt) Ltd. and Civimech Automobiles (Pvt) Ltd.



 Under Civimech Agro, the company has a 215 acre large scale farm growing fruit and vegetable for both local and export markets. 

 Civimech is an ICTAD Grade one (EM 1) company that has been in the Air Conditioning business for over 26 years. Civimech also holds the authorised dealership for Daikin air conditioners of Japan and many other world renowned Air Conditioning and Refrigeration equipment. ISO (International Organisation for Standardisation) has just published ISO 9001:2008, the latest edition of the International Standard used by organisations in 175 countries as the framework for their quality management systems (QMS). 

 ISO 9001:2008, Quality management system - Requirements, is the fourth edition of the standard first published in 1987 and which has become the global benchmark for providing assurance about the ability to satisfy quality requirements and to enhance customer satisfaction in supplier-customer relationships. 



 The new standard is now available at the Sri Lanka Standards Institution (SLSI), which is the member body of ISO in Sri Lanka. 

 ISO 9001:2008 contains no new requirements compared to the 2000 edition, which it replaces. It provides clarifications to the existing requirements of ISO 9001:2000 based on eight years' experience of implementing the standard worldwide and introduces changes intended to improve consistency with the environmental management system standard, ISO 14001:2004. 



 All ISO standards - currently more than 17 400 - are periodically reviewed. Several factors combine to render a standard out of date, such as technological evolution, new methods and materials, new quality and safety requirements, or questions of interpretation and application. To take account of such factors and to ensure that ISO standards are maintained at the state of the art, ISO has a rule requiring them to be periodically reviewed and a decision taken to confirm, withdraw or revise the documents. 



 ISO has also developed an introduction and support package of documents explaining what the differences are between ISO 9001:2008 and the year 2000 version, why and what they mean for users. These documents are available on the ISO Web site (wwvv.iso.org). 



 Although certification of conformity to ISO 9001 is not a requirement of the standard, it is frequently used in both public and private sectors to increase confidence in the products and services provided by certified organisations, between partners in business-to-business relations, in the selection of suppliers in supply chains and in the right to tender for procurement contracts. Up to the end of December 2007, at least 951 486 ISO 9001:2000 certificates had been issued in 175 countries and economies. 



 ISO (which does not itself carry out certification) and the International Accreditation Forum (IAF) have agreed on an implementation plan to ensure a smooth transition of accredited certification to ISO 9001:2008. The details of the plan are given in a joint communique by the two organisations, which is available on the ISO Web site (www.iso.org). Fonterra Brands Lanka today announced it will reduce the price of its dairy products.

 In an agreement with the Ministry of Trade, Commerce and Consumer Affairs, Fonterra said it will reduce dairy prices on its Anchor, Anlene, Anmum and Ratthi brands following a recent softening in commodity prices. The new retail selling price for ANCHOR Full Cream Milk 400gms pack is Rs 260.



 Achyut Reddy, Fonterra Brands Lanka's Managing Director, said: "While global dairy commodity prices remain well above traditional levels, they are softening and this has enabled us to reduce the prices charged to our customers."



 Sharp increases in global oil prices and rising direct costs for agricultural inputs, such as feed stocks, fuelled record increases in Whole Milk Powder (WMP) and the Base Commodity Price (BCP) last year. However in the last six months, these have declined. 

 "We want our consumers to continue to benefit from any such decline," said Achyut Reddy.

 "We will continue to monitor the world dairy market and reflect any price reductions where we can." At a lunch hosted in honour of Virtusa, Ambassador Robert Blake congratulated Keith Modder, Managing Director of Asian Operations, Madu Ratnayake, General Manager Virtusa-Sri Lanka, and the entire Virtusa-Sri Lanka team for being selected as a finalist for the U.S. Secretary of State's 2008 Award for Corporate Excellence (ACE). Virtusa was one of only eleven companies selected by the Secretary of State from nominations made by U.S. Ambassadors around the world. Virtusa and its employees were recognised for their significant time and resource contribution to the "Sahana" disaster recovery system, "Virtusa Campus Reach," "Virtusa Digital Reach," and IT advocacy programmes aimed at improving IT skills and curriculum in Sri Lanka. The ACE award recognises the important role U.S. businesses play abroad as good corporate citizens. Since 1999 the U.S. Secretary of State has awarded the ACE to deserving American businesses operating overseas for advancing good corporate citizenship, innovation and democratic principles. The Department of State is committed to working with businesses to further these best practices worldwide, and to recognise efforts to improve lives at home and abroad. Suntel offers all its residential customers the chance to win big this season with Suntel IDD, where one lucky individual will be rewarded with two air tickets to any country he or she wishes to go! All you have to do is make a few calls to your relatives or friends abroad, worth Rs. 300/= to enter the draw and you're half way there to your destination. 



 In order to enhance its customers' chance at winning the two tickets, Suntel is giving them an additional chance at the draw with every multiple of Rs 300/= above the stipulated amount. This means the more calls you make overseas, the more chance you have to be able to not limit yourself to hearing your loved ones' voices but go see them personally!



 The choice is entirely up to you. Pick any date in 2009, get yourself entered into the draw and you'll be on your way to any country as you wish! The draw is open for both pre- paid and post- paid residential customers. The closing date is January 5, 2009. So don't waste more time. Pick up your phone and start making some calls to your overseas friends.



