Sports

 Sport is so popular in Kandy that today there is a crying need for another ground in the city. At one time, when the Bogambara Stadium was under the Kandy Municipal Council the ground was given for various sports ranging from football, hockey, rugby, athletics, softball cricket, netball, basketball etc at a nominal rate. Today the fees for ground, pavilion and dressing room have gone up two hundred times more than what it was. Everyone who enters the stadium for sports has to pay. Even to jog on the grounds there is a fee depriving many sportsmen in the hills who are tremendously enthusiastic and are seeking to make a name in their respective spheres of sports.



 Bogambara was one of the oldest grounds for sports and in 1972 the stadium was constructed during late MB Samarakoon's tenure as Special Commissioner of the Kandy Municipal Council with the help of people like great sports promoter EW Balasuriya who was one of the major donors. A decade back in 1998 when the government of Chandrika Kumaratunga Bandaranaike wanted to have the Independence celebrations in Kandy the ground was re-developed and the promise was to hand it back to the Municipal Council. But nothing happened.



 The Bogambara ground was converted from a lake in the year 1897. It was a site for carnivals, games, circuses and gymkhana during the British occupation. Gradually schools like St. Anthony's, Trinity, Dharmaraja, St. Paul's and Kingswood made it their games venue.



 Not only was the Bogambara ground a venue for sports but it was also used for national games of that era like elle, bahu, thattu, gudu etc. 



 Six schools use the grounds for more than half the year for rugby, and in the first three months of the year the sports meets of over fifteen schools is held. In rugby, every school has a sponsor and they are ever ready to pay the high fees to make the grounds available. But with the lack of suitable grounds for football, hockey and club cricket the standards of these sports is affected. 



 Asgiriya ground which is owned by Trinity College is where all Kandy schools play their big matches and also international games are held. Asgiriya is one of the most beautiful grounds. When Robin Marlar, a renowned cricket writer visited the ground he said that Asgiriya can be compared with the best grounds in the world.

 At Katugastota, Anthonians have their own grounds for their inter-school matches and also serves the Old Anthonains SC to play their matches.



 The Lake View ground is being re-developed and it is said, Dharmaraja can play their matches this season at their own grounds.

 Kingswood, who had a pint-size ground at Randle Hills, extended it after spending lots of money. Yet, it's over ten years now and they have still not played a cricket or rugby match at this venue.



 Vidyartha has a small plot of land next to the famous Nittawella rugby grounds for their practices and junior games.

 St. Sylvester's has a small ground at Asgiriya but can only have their practices as it is not big enough to play matches.

 Sri Rahula College have their own grounds at Katugastota and they play their matches mostly cricket.



 If not for the Police and Campus grounds most inter-school cricket matches will have to be played out of Kandy. The Police ground has only a matting wicket. They are refurbishing their pavilion and also have an idea of laying three turf wickets. Most of the schools like St. Sylvester's, Vidyartha, Kingswood, Dharmaraja, and Sri Sumangala play their matches here.



 The Campus ground at Peradeniya has a matting wicket and a few turf pitches. At one time it was said to be among the best in the country, but has now deteriorated and is considered to be a batsman's nightmare.

 Sri Lanka Cricket after several foundation laying ceremonies has started work at Pallekelle, and the news is that the playing area will be completed first.



 At present Kandy is badly in need of another ground and several sportsmen are languishing as a result. Cricket matches are postponed, and the poor man's game football suffers while numerous sports like hockey and athletics are also affected. 

 Sri Lanka's one-time fast bowling coach Champaka Ramanayake who is presently employed with the Bangladesh Cricket Board as national fast bowling coach was a happy man after the first Test match against Sri Lanka at Dhaka. Ramanayake already nine months into his job told The Nation: "My bowlers did a superb job during the first Test against Sri Lanka and I hope to continue the good work in the ongoing second Test."



 Speaking further Ramanayake said: "When I came to Bangladesh I had to work with limited facilities and there was no fast bowling academy. Now we have started a fast bowling academy like in Sri Lanka and I am doing the same job here. We are now getting successful results and I am very confident to say our fast bowlers can challenge any team in the future. They proved that during the first Test against Sri Lanka and managed to dismiss Sri Lanka for below the 300-run mark in the first innings.



 "Ruwan Kalpage who is the National Cricket Academy head coach and me are doing our best to get more success. I think if the Bangladesh batsmen do a good job in the first innings they can definitely win the match or at least stay away from defeat. 



 "Unlike in Sri Lanka we have to be involved with the selections and we are very independent here. Our fast bowling academy has already produced many bowlers to the national side as well as the 'A' team and under 19 national side. 



 "There is a fast bowler Rubel Hussain with a similar action as Lasith Malinga. He can bowl fast at more than 140 km per hour and he is definitely going to be the future match-winning bowler for Bangladesh. The 20-year-old got five-wicket hauls against Sri Lanka in the under 19 game. He is very popular and everyone calls him Mali," said Ramanayake.



 Ramanayake said that he came to Bangladesh with a good contract for two years. "Some people say I will go back home to get a position in the Interim Committee. But I never like to get involved with cricket administration, but want to continue my job as a coach or a selector. If Sri Lanka Cricket gives me a good offer I will return after my two year contract.



 "My wife and three sons are in Sri Lanka and during my vacation I visit them. I will never forget my country and I like to serve cricket always," he said. Carlton Sports Club won the inaugural beach tag rugby tournament organised by Panadura Rugby Football Club. The tournament was held last Sunday with the participation of 24 teams. In the final Carlton beat Panadura by 45-5. Picture shows the victorious Carlton SC team with the trophy To mark the World Disabled Day on 3rd December, 2008 the Rotary Club of Kandy organised a Sports Festival for over 200 differently abled children and adults at the Nittawela Grounds, Kandy.



 Most of the participants used artificial limbs provided by the Centre for Handicapped Kundasale. This centre born out of the Rotary now provides over 1,000 artificial limbs to poor physically handicapped persons each year at a cost of Rs. 20 Million. 



 This Sports Festival attracted several persons of goodwill who saw for themselves that these so-called disabled people are not disabled but they are differently abled because quite often they make up for their disability with other skills and talents which are not seen in others. 



 This event was organised by the Vice President of the Rotary Club of Kandy Ayesha Wijeyratne and was sponsored by Pan Asia Bank, Brave Guard Colombo, Sampath Bank, Commercial Bank, Amana Takaful, Nesto Confectionaries, Interact Club of Trinity College and other well-wishers. [Mariks] The consistent performances of all-rounders Ishan Kingsuka and Rajitha Rodrigo helped Gonsalvez College to qualify for the quarter-finals of the ongoing under-13 inter-school division III cricket tournament. Gonsalvez beat Jayanthi Vidyalaya, Dharmapala, Pannipitiya and Ranpokunagama Vidyalaya in the qualifiying rounds and remains unbeaten in the tournament so far. 

 Results: 

 2nd round vs Jayanthi Vidyalaya, Ja Ela – won by 163 runs

 Gonsalvez 216-9 (50) (Ishan Kingsuka 63, Nipun Madhuka 54, Hashan Udara 29)

 Jayanthi Vidyalaya 53 (27.3) (Ishan Kingsuka 3/21, Rajitha Rodrigo 5/12, Kushan Pathum 2/6)

 3rd round vs Dharmapala, Pannipitiya – won by 8 wickets

 Dharmapala 74-2 (29) (Udara Perera 24, Ishan Kingsuka 3/23, Rajitha Rodrigo 4/23, Kushan Pathum 2/14)

 Gonsalvez 75 (11.2) (Pathum Vimukthi 35n.o., Nipun Madhuka 14, Rajitha Rodrigo 11)

 4th round vs Ranpokunagama Vidyalaya – won by 35 runs

 Gonsalvez 90-8 (32) (Nipun Madhuka 34, Subodha Chanaka 11)

 Ranpokunagama 55 (19.1) (Ishan Kingsuka 3/14, Rajitha Rodrigo 3/12, Kushan Pathum 2/3) (MNA) Buddhi School of Chess has organised a one-day chess workshop. The object of this workshop is to promote and develop chess among students. The workshop will be conducted on January 10 at the Gampaha Provincial Council building. Lectures will be based on tournament rules, opening principles, middle game rules, basic chess endings and strategies. The workshop will be conducted by an international chess arbiter and an internationally rated chess player. For more details and registrations: Buddhi School of Chess, No.30, Mihindu Mawatha, Gampaha or call 033-2223811/033-2231253 or 071-9295352 or mail to buddhischoolofchess@yahoo.com. Ananda College under-17 hockey team became champions at the Colombo Schools Hockey Tournament 2008, held at the Astro Turf Hockey Complex Colombo recently. Hasitha Lakruwan was the consistent goal scorer at the tournament. During the tournament Ananda defeated the following schools: President's College, Rajagiriya 6-0, Dharmapala College, Pannipitiya 6-0, Isipathana College 2-0. Semi-finals: St. Benedict's College 5-0 and Finals: Nalanda College 1—0. 



 The Ananda under-19 team did well to emerge Plate Champions of the Bank of Ceylon Super Sevens All Island Hockey Tournament 2008 at Asgiriya International Cricket Stadium Kandy. Ananda won four closely contested matches to become champs as follows: Bandaranayake College, Gampaha 2-0, Royal College, Colombo 1-0. Semi-finals: St. Thomas' College, Matara 1-0. Finals: Trinity College, Kandy 1-0.



 In the Blue & Gold All Island Hockey Sevens, organised by Royal College Colombo the U-19 team also did well to emerge Plate runners-up. They won their matches with ease up to the finals defeating Zahira College, Colombo 4-1: Vidyartha College, Kandy 6-0: St. Thomas' College, Matara 3-0; Isipathana College, Colombo 2-0 and in the semi-finals Royal College, Colombo 8-0.

 In the final they tied nil-all at full time but were unfortunate to lose to Nalanda 1-0 in the penalty shoot-out. Musaeus College won the girls team events at the inter-schools squash championships held at the Tamil Union squash courts last week. Sirimavo Bandaranayake Vidyalaya finished runner-up and Visakha Vidyalaya took third place.

 (pix by Ruskshan Abeywansha)



