BusinessThe majority of migrant workers from Sri Lanka are unskilled and earning low salaries. Hence, it is unlikely that they will experience big salary cuts that will have an impact on their remittances back home, senior economists point out... 

 Around the world, there is a fear due to the current economic crisis, that there would be a reduction in the amount of cash sent by millions of skilled and unskilled labourers throughout the world, to their families back home. The UN and other agencies have warned that the impact is likely to be felt keenly in Eastern Europe and Asia. 



 Standard & Poors rating services in Singapore few weeks ago, predicted that Sri Lanka would see a decline in remittance inflow next year, while the UN predicted that over all the world, there would be a reduction in remittances next year by 6 percent.



 Meanwhile, developed countries began to scale down employees to face the tough economic situation stemming from the present global economic turmoil. The Nation Economist spoke to leading economists in the country to obtain an overview of the impact of downscaling of employment, and the possible reduction in remittances to the country.

 Central Bank's Chief Economist, Dr. P N Weerasinghe and leading independent economist, Dr. Harsha de Silva noted there would not be a drastic impact to the country's remittance flow.



 Meanwhile, Dr. Saman Kalegama said that even though economic worries had hit the Middle East foreign remittances flow, the second largest exchange earner to Sri Lankan economy for the year 2007 is unlikely to be affected.



 Financial crisis and the Middle East

 While the western world was hit by the financial crisis, the Middle East too began to feel the effect of the global turmoil, and the world oil prices began to stumble in the latter part of 2008. 

 The Nation Economist inquired from the experts if there would be a drastic impact on the country's remittance flow especially from the Middle East, where the majority of Sri Lankans are employed.



 According to Saman Kalegama, despite the Middle Eastern region being gradually hit by the global financial turmoil, combined with declining oil prices, Sri Lanka will be able to achieve the forecasted Rs.3 billion for the year 2008.

 "The oil boom that took place from mid 2005 to mid 2008 is likely to allow the Middle Eastern region to sustain its prosperity. I believe that the region will be able to bear the recession without much difficulty" Kelegama said.



 Although the 2005-2008 oil boom is reminiscent of 1970-1980 oil boom, instead of spending most of its profits like in the case of the latter, the oil producing countries in the region have been able to manage the windfall with restraint. This as Kelegama pointed out, would provide them a strong buffer to face the present recession.



 He also stressed the point that the Middle Eastern countries will find it difficult to move forward without foreign labour. 

 "For instance, in UAE, the expatriate population is larger than the local population," he said.

 According to Dr. Weerasinghe, Over 70 per cent of the total remittances to Sri Lanka originate from Middle Eastern countries and East Asia. He added that those countries are not drastically affected unlike Western countries. 



 Fear of reduction in inflow of remittance

 All over the world there is a fear of reduction in overall world remittance flows. According to United Nation statistics in 2009 the world remittance flow would fall by 6 percent, while S&P ratings predicted that Sri Lanka would see a decline in its remittance inflow during next year.



 Meanwhile, leading economists in the country contradicting the predictions of UN and S&P ratings, said that the country would not see a drastic reduction in its remittances flow in 2009 in spite the global financial crisis.

 Dr. Harsha de Silva noted that Sri Lanka, unlike other countries would not have a reduction in its remittance flow. "Most of our employment is in unskilled sector, so even if their salaries goes down there would not be a drastic impact, and I don't think there might be a fall in income in Middle East," he predicted.



 Dr. Weerasinghe reiterated that worker remittances which is one of the main sources of foreign income to the country, would not have a drastic impact on the economy during the financial turmoil.

 "We have observed that remittances usually increase during the slowdown in the domestic economy, as the migrants remit more money to their families in Sri Lanka during such period, to ensure that their families have sufficient cash flows to meet their consumption needs," he said.



 He noted that for example, the remittances, which had been growing around 10-11 per cent prior to Tsunami in 2004, jumped to over 25 per cent in 2005 as the migrants remitted higher amount of money to their families and relatives in the aftermath of tsunami devastation. 



 According to Saman Kalegama, during the first ten months of 2008, remittances have increased by around 20 per cent to US dollars 2,466 million.

 "For the year as whole, we expect the remittances to reach US dollars 3 billion. Therefore, we do not expect any adverse impact on remittance flows in 2009, but expect remittances to grow at a slower pace than in 2008".

 Impact on Sri Lanka due to global scale down of employees



 Around the world there is a large scale down of employees. In the Middle East it was recorded that around 50 Sri Lankan architects and quantity surveyors were made redundant during the past month.

 Dr. Harsha de Silva added that even if there is a scale down in Sri Lankan skilled labour, there would not be a collapse in remittance flow to the country.



 "Sri Lankan skilled labour does not send money to the country, since most of the time their families also live overseas. The skilled labour segment prefers to invest in foreign house housing markets," he explained.

 Meanwhile, Dr. Weerasinghe said the number of Sri Lankan architects and construction professionals working in the Middle Eastern countries was not significant enough to have an impact on the remittance flow. 

 "We do not think all those construction professionals would lose their jobs, as construction activity is still continuing in those countries," he said.



 He however admitted that some of the professionals may lose their jobs due to the current global conditions, which is inevitable, "We should also recognise the fact that all countries are taking various measures to address the current global financial crisis and, the consequent economic recession. Therefore, the situation is likely to improve during the next year or so."



 Rest of South Asia affected

 Meanwhile, the economists noted that in Middle East, the construction industry is facing a tough time and as a result employment related to it would be scale down, they emphasised that most of the South Asian countries would be affected due to the fall in the construction industry in the Middle East.



 According to Dr. Harsha, India and Bangladesh will have an impact due to scaling down of employment in the construction industry, since many Indians and Bangladeshi's are employed in the construction sector.

 "The scale down of employees in the construction industry in Middle East will have an impact on India and Bangladesh, since, many Indians and Bangladeshi's are employed in the construction sector," he explained.

 Salary reductions of unskilled labour and impact to economy



 During the oil boom in 2005-2008 allowed both skilled and unskilled labour in the region to earn an extra large income. However, economists predicted that there might be a reduction in salaries of skilled and unskilled labour.



 According Dr. Weerasinghe, there is a possibility that there will be a reduction in salary paid for labour in Middle East.

 "The reduction in salary will not be bad at all considering the higher salaries received by them in last few years with the surge in oil prices. If those workers could get at least what they were paid during last year they will be better off as they could buy more goods and services than last year with the same level of income, because prices of several basic commodities have come down drastically," he said.



 Future foreign employments 

 Central Bank's Chief Economists predicted that there could be a reduction in number of people migrating for employment next year.



 "We do not expect many unskilled people returning to the country during the next year," he said.

 He added that if there was such an event, even if the migrants return to country most of them could find alternative employment in the country as there are vacancies in various sectors of the economy, which remain unfilled for a longer time due to lower unemployment in the country. 

 "Therefore, the availability of more workers could lead to higher economic activities in the country and may check demand for higher wages."



 He further added that the unskilled Sri Lankan migrant workers including housemaids are not paid very high salaries and their salaries constitute only a fraction of the expenditures of the households in those countries. 



 Fall in worldwide remittances 

 Meanwhile, Dr. Saman Kalegama said worker remittances, which grew at a higher rate for the third consecutive year, reached USD 2502 million last year. 



 "According to the Central Bank Report, 2007, this increase was attributable mainly to the 8 percent increase in the number of migrant workers leaving for foreign employment compared to 217, 306 in 2007,"

 He explained that the increase in the average wages of migrants in the Middle Eastern region, was due to the rise in income level of oil producing countries such as Saudi Arabia, UAE, Kuwait and Qatar. The remittances account for nearly 7.5 percent of the GDP.



 Central Bank on UN predictions

 Dr. Weerasinghe noted that with the current global economic situation remittances flows from advanced countries are projected to decline sharply, as they are seriously affected by the ongoing financial crisis. 

 "However, remittances from developing countries will not be affected as badly as developed countries, as the adverse impact of current crisis will not be severe in the developing countries," he said.



 He further added that, unskilled workers are paid low salaries compared to skilled workers, and therefore it is unlikely that salaries of unskilled workers will be cut down substantially. 

 "As explained earlier, Sri Lanka's migrant workforce is largely concentrated in the Middle East and East Asia, and the workforce largely constitutes of unskilled workers. Therefore, we do not expect any adverse impact on remittance flows to the country during the next year," he said. Zam Gems are proud to be the pioneers in Sri Lanka to introduce the Premium white gold range of jewellery to the local market. White Gold which first became popular in the 1920's was an alternative to Platinum jewellery, thus making it more affordable. The trend soon became popular around the globe and it was only a matter of time until it caught on in Sri Lanka, and since then white gold has become extremely popular and the demand is consistently on the rise.



 White gold jewellery has also become extremely fashionable and you see many stars on the red carpet adorned in fine jewellery set in white gold. It is also popular among teenagers as trendy and modern designs look extremely attractive when it is set in white gold.



 Zam Gems needs no formal introduction in the world of gems and jewellery as they have been providing Sri Lankans as well as overseas customers with the best quality in gem stones and jewellery both white and yellow gold for over three decades.



 The white gold which you see in the market today is off-white or with a yellowish tinge to it. Therefore it requires rhodium plating to get the desired look. Due to the daily wear and tear of the jewellery as it comes in to contact with various chemicals, such as perfume, crèmes, lotions and sweat, the plating will wear off after a while and will need re-plating.

 The advantage of the new "Premium White" is that it is pure white. It does not change its colour and therefore requires minimal or no rhodium plating.



 "The advanced technological methods we are introducing will give white gold jewellery a whole new dimension as you will have the highest quality and highest level of visual appeal as well" said Ahsan Refai, Managing Director of Zam Gems.

 "Although gold is naturally yellowish, it can be changed and made into a variety of colours, such as pink or rose gold, purple gold or even green gold, according to any trend or fashion the customer will desire. These colours are manufactured with different metal alloys being mixed with yellow gold. The only exception is 24 kt gold which is always yellow" added Refai.



 The 'Premium White' range will be available at all ZAM GEMS outlets in the country. The most attractive news, is that there would be no price increase when compared to regular white gold jewellery. You can have the 'Premium White' range at the same price of white gold jewellery and an exclusive range of designs are available to cater to different tastes when it comes to fine gold jewellery. BOI approval for US$ 100 million investment by British BOI Enterprise The Board of Investment of Sri Lanka granted investment approval to a new mobile (GSM) and fixed (SCDMA) telecommunications network provider. Chairman / Director General, Dhammika Perera signed the agreement on behalf of the BOI and formally presented the BOI Certificate of Registration to B.A.C. Abeywardena, Director of RTEC Mobile Lanka.

 FDI, which has been successfully attracted by the BOI, has played a major role in the development and modernisation of Sri Lanka's telecommunication.



 RTEC Mobile Lanka (Private) Limited signed the agreement to set up and operate a mobile and fixed telecommunications network. The venture is an investment of US $ 100 million sponsored by Global Electroteks Limited, UK. The project will create 320 new employment opportunities in high technology field. 



 The telecommunication service provider will provide mobile (GSM) services and fixed phone with broadband internet services island wide. Abeywardena stated that the company will be using the latest technology, mostly developed by Sri Lanka to provide a service similar to WiMax. The technology introduced will be advanced and even better he said.



 The fixed phones will be manufactured in China according to designs provided by the company, and the GSM equipment will also be imported from China. RTEC Mobile Lanka will set up 1000 base stations in the country and also expects to utilise the existing base stations to provide the service. The company has already obtained the required approval to operate from TRC (Telecommunications Regulatory Commission) and expects to commence commercial operations by December 2009.

 Directors of the company B. A. C. Abeywardena and K. M. D. R. S. Jayathilaka signed the agreement on behalf of RTEC Mobile Lanka (Private) Limited. 

 The American people recently demonstrated once again their unique capacity for self-renewal by electing the first black man as head of state, not much more than a generation after the country's African-Americans were accorded full civil rights. 

 In electing Barack Obama as President by a solid margin, accompanied by a congress with the biggest Democratic majority since the 1970s, Americans signaled a dramatic change in the direction of the world's sole superpower



 The country regarded loftily by many Europeans as hopelessly racist and irredeemably right wing voted to be ruled by a black man, at the head of a party committed to economic redistribution and a foreign policy rooted in peaceful diplomatic engagement.



 However, if we re-wind this scene two year's back, today's achievement by Barack Obama would not have been thought to be possible. What we are talking today is the success of a presidential campaign that was executed with clinical perfection. Barack Hussein Obama, two years ago was a relatively unknown name of a young upstart senator and lawyer with an excellent oratorical acumen and a mountain-sized ambition to succeed in life. 



 If you consider him as a branded product on the shelf, he had all the demerits that a marketer could attribute to a disastrous brand. A black man born to an immigrant Kenyan father and an American mother in a country where racism is rampant despite all the egalitarian rights given by the Constitution. A middle name, Hussein, loathed by all Americans, especially both the Bushes, senior and junior. His father, though a non-practicing Muslim, not only extended his genes but his Muslim name to his son. A Muslim, by all means, whether practicing or none practicing, is considered a potential Al-Qaeda sympathiser or even a potential recruit in most American minds.



 With all these drawbacks, how did Barack Hussein Obama pull off an emphatic win over the war-hero turned business-heir apparent-long-standing senator-savior of America from the clutches of terrorism, John McCain. Any marketing or PR guru would have first told him to re-brand himself, viz, change the name to something more American, and re-position himself to the demand of the country, viz, country first, or liberation from terrorism, like McCain did.



 But what did Obama do that we all marketers can learn from? Though he might not have borrowed that euphemistic Bible of marketing from Kotler, he seems to have done all that a good marketer would have done all the way.



 Targeted the correct segments

 Obama's hybrid segmentation of the market singled out the exact target markets to focus on. Demographically, he targeted the young voters, who were either moderate or liberal, instead of the conservative middle-aged and the elderly. The exit polls as per CNN, showed 66% of 18-29 and 54% 30-44 age groups had indicated voting for Obama. He targeted the Blacks and the Hispanics who expected a Obama to be able to relate to them as a minority himself. The Exit Polls showed 95% Blacks and 66% Hispanics to vote for him. 



 Geographically, the South was heavily biased to his opponent due to historical reasons of white dominant mentality. Other regions were more of a tie as per the Exit Polls. Therefore, his segmentations did not concentrate much on geographical demarcations except for last minute campaigns in the toss-up states.



 However, psychographically, he focused on the moderate and the liberals who wanted a change from the Bush era and focus on the economy. Exit Polls again showed 60% of the moderates and 88% of the liberals voting for Obama.



 Turned weakness into strength

 His weakness was inexperience in the political system. Barely two years into his term as a Senator, he could not have boasted of a strong CV in the political arena to outweigh his opponents. However, he targeted the right market segments, as discussed above, whose expectations were not an experienced politician with a 'silver' bullet but a pragmatist with a promise to 'Change' and bring fresh thinking to the country and the economy. 



 Singular message all the way

 Two years ago Obama correctly identified that the overwhelming sentiment in this presidential election would be a desire for change. America's yearning for change focused most closely on dissatisfaction with the economy and the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. John McCain was never able to distance himself from the Republican calamities of the past eight years, even though he had a right to be considered at least as much an agent of change as Obama. 



 His unique selling proposition was 'Change that we can believe in'. Though his opponent's 'Country First' was deemed to have appealed strongly to the patriots, it was not the expectations of the target market, which constituted the majority in the country. McCain kept on improvising with his slogan and the pay-off lines expecting the tide to turn towards it. When all else failed, he expected the blonde Sarah Palin to give him that touch of magic, which she did, but for a brief respite. People did get carried away with her charm and glamour but it was not sufficient to convince the voters to handover the presidency to McCain. 



 Once the initial euphoria died down and the reality set it, there was Obama still touting the 'Change' slogan. He did not change his focus when he saw the sudden rise in the ratings for McCain. His consistent message paid off and the voters not only remembered him for what he was offering but also trusted him for being so consistent in his message and offerings.



 Usage of Technology and the Internet

 When modern day elections are always full of sleaze funding and scandals, Obama not only refused to accept Federal funding but also did not run after major donors to fill his campaign coffers. He was ably supported by the co-founder of Facebook, Christopher Hughes, as the Director of Online Organising, to mobilize online community to create a 70 million member army of bloggers, fundraisers, and volunteers who were hooked up by e-mail, blogs, chat rooms, and pocket networks who not only worked tirelessly for Obama but also contributed a mere USD 5 each to the campaign fund. This initiative gave him the best of the money that any Presidential nominee received in years and the biggest ever volunteer group, mind you majority of them young, working tirelessly for his campaign.



 If Obama can market himself with such clinical precision without re-branding or re-positioning himself to suit the current thinking but to change the minds of the prospects to his thinking, isn't he the greatest marketer of them all in the contemporary politics or business, for that matter.



 My analogy of his political campaign in a marketing context was for the purpose of getting our marketers to think outside the box and learn from the parallel avenues that are available in the world. 



 The writer, Shiraz Latiff is the Chairman of CIM Sri Lanka Region and Asst. Vice President - Service Quality of HSBC Electronic Data Processing Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. Latiff is a Member of The Chartered Institute of Marketing, UK and is a Chartered Marketer by profession. He holds a Masters in Business Administration from the Postgraduate Institute of Management and an Advanced Diploma in Business Administration from the Association of Business Executives, UK.



