Sports

 The Sri Lanka team for the Asian Junior Squash championships in Chennai has run into problems concerning the officials. The eight member team of four boys and four girls has already been approved by the Sports Minister to take part in the championships which will be held from January 16 onwards.



 However the Sports Minister has withheld approval of the two coaches Yasmin Zarook (head coach) and RS Deen (assistant coach).



 Sports Ministry secretary S. Liyanagama said: "There were objections regarding the coaches especially against Yasmin Zarook. We had to consider the objections which came from some parents as well as players who are involved with the tour. That's why we decided to hold up their names."



 "I don't know whether the junior squash team can go on time. The team is expected to go on January 14 but so far they have not sent us fresh names of coaches for approval," said Liyanagama.

 Meanwhile The Nation learns that on an earlier occasion too the same head coach Yasmin Zarook had to face similar type of objections before an international tour.



 The selected players we are made to understand will have to pocket out their own expenses for the tour. When The Nation inquired from Liyanagama why the Ministry could not grant any financial assistance for the tour he said, "Squash officials never requested money for this tour. This is an international tournament and the players are going to represent the country. If the squash officials had requested for financial assistance we would have tried to help them by giving at least part of the cost."



 Liyanagama further stated that most sport bodies had a habit of naming the teams and officials at the last minute before a tour. "That's why we could not approve the teams on time. Anyway our new rule will correct this matter. It clearly states that the team members and officials should be picked six weeks prior to the tour. We will then forward the selected team to the national selection committee headed by former IGP Indra de Silva."



 Liyanagama also pointed out that if any schools team wanted to make a tour they should come through the Education Ministry. Otherwise there would be unnecessary delays in approving the team. 

 Four boys and four girls have been chosen for the Asian Junior Squash championship to be held from January 16 to 23 in Chennai.

 The under-19 boys' team includes Gihan Suwaris from S. Thomas' College, Mount Lavinia, Kasun Weerasinghe and Dilshan Senaratne from Royal College, Colombo and Ravindra Laksiri from DS Senanayake College.

 The under-19 girls' team includes Daminidi Udandawa and Nadindi Udandawa from Colombo International School, Randima Ranaweera from Sirimavo Bandaranaike Vidyalaya, Colombo and Shariya Guruge from Holy Family Convent, Bambalapitiya.

 The team manager is Oliver Guruge. Pietersen also tried to get Flower ousted: ECB official LONDON: Andy Flower, who is tipped to be the temporary replacement for the sacked Peter Moores, was one of the backroom staff that Kevin Pietersen wanted England to get rid of. 



 A senior official of the England and Wales Cricket Board said: "Pietersen wanted half of them out and certainly Andy Flower. I don't know what he was hoping to achieve but I've never encountered an ego quite like it in cricket. He wanted to run the show." 

 Another management board member said: "I did hear that Kevin wanted Andy out." 



 Flower did not expect to be named as interim coach under Pietersen for the Caribbean trip, but said: "I had heard something about this, but not enough to make a comment. I have always had a good relationship with KP, but we have not spoken in the past few days." 



 A spokesman for Pietersen refused to deny the story last night, The Guardian reported. 

 The revelation confounds the notion that Pietersen only respects coaches with international standing. While Moores was a moderate county cricketer who was never close to international recognition, Flower was one of the finest players of his time. 

 One of Moores' closest allies, Flower played for Essex between 2002-6 and became England's assistant coach in May 2007. It was the first big decision Moores made as coach. – [ANI] HONG KONG, (AFP) - World number one Jelena Jankovic pulled out of the Hong Kong World Team Challenge with flu on Saturday, throwing her Australian Open preparations into disarray.



 The Serbian, who came into the tournament looking for vital match practice ahead of the year's opening Grand Slam, said she had been struggling throughout the exhibition tournament.



 "I have a flu and have been feeling weak and sick for the last couple of days. I really have been trying my best to go on the court but I feel slow and (have had) no reactions," she said.



 "I wanted to go out there for the crowd. It's an exhibition event and as well I think it was a great opportunity for me to play some matches and try to get in form before the Australian Open but sometimes you cannot control it." 

 Jankovic, who is still looking for her first Grand Slam crown, played just one singles match here when she was thumped 6-2, 6-2 by Venus Williams.



 "Nobody likes to be sick and and now I'm on medication and I have to rest and try to recover as fast as possible and then we will see how everything will go," she said.



 "It's disappointing because I take care to try to play some matches and try to work on my game and try to get ready for the big Grand Slams but sometimes it's bad luck. What can I do?"



 The 23-year-old said she was flying to Melbourne later Saturday ahead of the start of the Australian Open on January 19. She has no other matches scheduled before the tournament starts.

 "My main goal now is to just get healthy and get back to the court as soon as possible and try to get ready for the Australian," she said.



 Her withdrawal from the Hong Kong event, which features teams from Russia, Europe, the Americas and Asia-Pacific, leaves her desperately short of match practice after playing only one singles and one doubles match this year.

 Jankovic, captain of the European team here, admitted after her loss to Williams that she was rusty and still coming to terms with her new body shape after fitness and strengthening work during the close season.



 Last year she reached the final of the US Open as well as the semi-finals of the Australian Open and the French Open.

 In the last day of the Hong Kong tournament Saturday, top seeds Russia are locked at 1-1 with the Americas in the best-of-five gold group final. LONDON, (AFP) - Recent Test records of England captains following the appointment of Andrew Strauss in succession to Kevin Pietersen:



 Kevin Pietersen

 Years as captain: 2008-09

 Record: P3 W1 L1 D1

 England's star player was handed the captaincy when Michael Vaughan resigned in tears and promptly scored a century as the team beat his native South Africa in his first Test in charge. But was found wanting on the field when England failed to defend 387 in first Test in India.

 A strong-willed personality, his clashes with coach Peter Moores cost both men their positions as Pietersen's five-month reign ended in controversy.



 Michael Vaughan

 Years as captain: 2003-08

 Record: P51 W26 D14 L11

 England's most succesful captain of all-time, in terms of Test wins, Vaughan was appointed when Nasser Hussain, having already given-up the one-day leadership, ceded the Test captaincy after the opening match of the 2003 home series with South Africa. 

 Known for his relaxed style and keen tactical sense, the highlight of Vaughan's time in charge was the 2005 Ashes series win over Australia. 

 But injuries, allied to loss of form, ground Vaughan down and he resigned in August 2008 - with Graeme Smith, South Africa's captain when Hussain quit, still in charge of the Proteas



 Andrew Flintoff

 Years as captain: 2005-07

 Record: P11 W2 D2 L7

 The dynamic all-rounder only ever got to lead England because of injuries to others, mainly Vaughan. Early signs were promising with Flintoff leading England to a drawn series in India. But it all went wrong on the 2006/07 Ashes tour of Australia when England were thrashed 5-0 and coach Duncan Fletcher later accused him of turning up drunk to a training session.



 Andrew Strauss

 Record: P5 W2 D3 L0

 Years as captain: 2006-07, 2009-

 The former Middlesex captain was drafted in as skipper for the home series against Pakistan when both Flintoff and Vaughan were injured. Led the team to a 3-0 series win although this was changed to 2-0 when Pakistan's forfeited match at the The Oval was belatedly altered from an England win to a draw. 

 Was thought by many to be unlucky to lose the leadership to Flintoff on the ensuing Ashes tour but only realistic choice when Pietersen quit.

 Last led England in drawn first Test against West Indies in 2007. LONDON, (AFP) - Former Australian skipper Steve Waugh added his respected voice to the Ashes build-up on Friday by telling Kevin Pietersen he was wrong to relinquish the England captaincy. 



 Pietersen had overseen just three Tests before he spectacularly fell out with coach Peter Moores in a saga which plunged English cricket into crisis just six months before the team attempts to reclaim the Ashes. 



 Asked if the South African-born Pietersen had blundered in his high-profile resignation, Waugh said: "Yes, I think so. 

 "It didn't look like it was a terrible situation. It does take a while to work with someone. I mean you're not just going to come on board as a captain and work smoothly and fit in exactly the way he wants," said Waugh speaking to www.laureus.com. 



 "There are probably six to twelve months at least so there is that certain period of time where there's a bit of adjustment needed. You've got to get used to the way people operate. 



 "So I think they really didn't probably give each other enough of an opportunity to do that." 

 Pietersen, who wants to remain as part of the squad despite reports that his self-confidence and single-mindedness had left the dressing room split, has been succeeded as skipper by opener Andrew Strauss. 

 Moores, sacked as coach, has been replaced on a temporary basis by former Zimbabwe batsman Andy Flower who will lead England on their forthcoming tour of the West Indies. 



 Waugh, the most successful international captain of all time having won 40 of his 53 Tests in charge between 1999 and 2004, insists that few people have emerged with much credit from the crisis. 

 "In the end both people suffer. Kevin had to resign from the captaincy and Peter Moores has lost a coaching job, so no one's a winner, and it really puts England one step further back than they'd like to be." 



 Waugh also believes that despite the controversy, Pietersen will not be cold-shouldered when he returns to England duty to prepare for the squad's departure to the Caribbean on January 21. 



 "They're pretty hard-nosed and thick-skinned and they're used to a lot of these distractions around the team," he said. 

 "They'll get on with playing cricket and they'll embrace him as a great, great batsman, which he is and I think it will be pretty soon forgotten and they'll just get on with the job." 



 The Australian veteran also believes that Pietersen may even regain the captaincy in the future. 

 "We all move on and you know in time he may well get another opportunity because a lot of people thought he was very good at what he did," added Waugh. 



 "He certainly gave spark to the job and he got a lot of people talking about Test match cricket in England, so there were certainly more things in his favour than against him."



