BusinessBrandix Lanka Limited, Sri Lanka's iconic apparel solutions company, has been accorded a Platinum rating in the country's first 'Report Card' on Corporate Accountability.

 The globally-respected apparel exporter is one of four corporate entities to score more than the 90 per cent required for Platinum status in this inaugural benchmarking exercise undertaken by STING Consultants and presented by Lanka Monthly Digest (LMD) Sri Lanka's leading business magazine.



 Defining Corporate Accountability as 'the moral and legal obligations of companies to be accountable for their actions to all stakeholders,' the assessment covered awareness of, the approach to and a preparedness to accept stakeholder responsibilities in seven areas: corporate values, identifying risks and opportunities, policy coverage, stakeholder engagement, management and measurement, workplace practices and public disclosure.



 In their remarks on Brandix the promoters of the Corporate Accountability Rating said: "The unrelenting international competition faced by Brandix in the apparel sector, and its dependence on a large workforce, has led it to focus on accountability with a human face. This is why it places great emphasis on social aspects such as gender equality, training, human rights, strong links with local communities and suppliers, and workplace quality. And of course, it continues to be a globally recognised, sustainable business entity."



 Among the key areas of focus for Brandix in the sphere of corporate accountability are its internationally-recognised dedication to eco-friendly manufacture and its consistent commitment to CSR projects aimed at facilitating access to safe water for needy rural communities. The bulk of the Group's CSR initiatives are conducted under the theme 'Water is Life.' Over the past two years, Brandix has completed hundreds of micro water supply projects in Sri Lanka, and donated to the government a Water Research and Training Centre purpose-built and equipped at a cost of Rs 25 million.



 Brandix is also at the forefront nationally and globally in efforts to adopt eco-friendly manufacturing. In April 2008, one of the Group's manufacturing plants became the first Platinum rated Green Factory in the world under the LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) of the US Green Building Council (USGBC). The CIMA Sri Lanka division announced two master courses that will be conducted by Dr Mike Bourne, Professor of Business Performance, Cranfield University School of Management, UK. 

 The two Corporate Performance Management master courses 'Delivering Performance through Direction & People' and 'Strategy Execution' will be held on January 21 and 22, respectively.



 People are our greatest asset! A phrase often used, but often not believed. In reality, we know we only perform through directing and motivating our people, but often we don't act with this in mind, especially in times of economic difficulty. Why is this? It is because we haven't had an explicit framework that links people management practices, corporate performance management and financial performance. The half day master course titled Delivering Performance through Direction & People" will provide that linkage. Mike Bourne will present and illustrate a framework that links people practices, goal and direction setting with business performance. The programme will be based on a series of cases conducted in the UK and a detailed quantitative analysis. Drawing on his personal experience of working with organisations, Dr Bourne will illustrate the framework with practical examples of how to direct and manage people through a down turn.



 The second programme covers strategy. The vast majority of company strategies are never executed. The result is that all the effort in creating the strategy is wasted and the organisation lacks leadership and direction. The one day workshop titled 'Strategy Execution' will provide a number of insights into why strategy isn't executed and tools and techniques for improving strategy implementation and organisational success. Executing strategy, setting direction, Measurement and target setting, Visualising Performance, Managing with measures and Corporate Performance Management in Practice are some of the topics that will be covered by Dr Bourne in the one day programme.



 Dr Bourne gained his PhD from the University of Cambridge in 2001, researching the design and implementation of balanced performance measurement systems. He has spent the last twelve years working with companies supporting senior management teams through the process of designing, implementing and using their balanced scorecards and related performance management techniques. His current research activities are in the arena of corporate performance measurement and management, including the interface with the planning and budgeting process and performance related pay. He has authored various publications, and is co-author of several books. Dr Bourne is also the editor of the Gee Handbook of Performance Measurement and the journal Measuring Business Excellence.



 Registrations for these programmes are now being accepted at CIMA Sri Lanka Division. The Division can be contacted on 2503880. Sri Lanka Telecom Mobitel, the National Mobile Services Provider, signed a milestone agreement with the National Savings Bank on November 17, 2008, to provide enhanced services to its valued customers. 

 Chairman, National Savings Bank, Upali Guneratne, signed the agreement with Chairperson, Sri Lanka Telecom and Sri Lanka Telecom Mobitel, Leisha De Silva Chandrasena and CEO, Sri Lanka Telecom Mobitel, Suren J. Amarasekera. 



 Following this agreement, customers of Sri Lanka Telecom Mobitel can now use their mobile telephone number at any NSB branch in any part of the country, to receive online instant updates, settle bills or top up prepaid accounts instantly. 

 At the time of signing the agreement Leisha De Silva Chandrasena said, "This partnership between two national bodies is sealed with the sole intention of providing our customers with greater convenience and value added services. We consider the existing 120 strong branch network of NSB to be of great importance towards reaching and serving our customers across every province of the country". 



 This affiliation enhances the existing excellent relationship between Mobitel and NSB, consequently ensuring greater service to, and connectivity with customers and reassures their commitment to customer centricity. 

 This agreement will also serve as a basis for introducing in the near future products such as SMS banking for mutual benefit of both NSB and Sri Lanka Telecom Mobitel and its customers. 



 Sri Lanka Telecom Mobitel, the National Mobile Services Provider, is a wholly owned subsidiary of Sri Lanka Telecom. In January 2004, the company launched its fully- fledged 2.5G GSM network, that is EDGE/GPRS enabled and designed to operate on dual band. In December 2007 the company launched its 3.5G HSPA network - the first Super 3.5G network in South Asia. Investments committed to date in the 3.5G/2.5G networks and service offering amounts to over US$ 300 mn. 

 The company plans to increase its number of base stations to 2000 by the end the first quarter of 2009. Macksons Paint Industries (Pvt.) Ltd., manufacturers of the premier range of Multilac paints, rewarded 270 of their outstanding dealers and staff with an exciting tour of Kuala Lumpur and the Genting Highlands in Malaysia. Many souvenirs and surprises awaited the group, who were hosted at star class hotels and treated to interesting and informative programmes on culture and entertainment in Kuala Lumpur and the Genting Highlands. A cable car ride, visits to temples and monuments of cultural significance as well as numerous tours of the two cities made the four- day trip an exciting and fun-filled one. The group was also hosted to a Gala dinner at Crown Plaza hotel in Kuala Lumpur and entertained by Sri Lankan celebrity Sujeewa Karunaratnam and a cultural performance sponsored by the Malaysian Tourist Board. The dealers were unanimous in their appreciation of Macksons, for sponsoring the tour, "It was one of the most enjoyable and educational tours we have been on. We really enjoyed touring the city and eating the different foods. The shopping was fabulous and we bought many fascinating handicrafts and heaps of chocolates to bring home to our families," they told the organisers "We really appreciate the time and trouble taken by Macksons to make our trip so memorable. This is a very thoughtful way of being recognised and rewarded for our commitment to making Multilac a household name in Sri Lanka," they said. "All dealers enjoyed the days spent with the management team of Multilac as a family and will remember the tour in the years to come".



 Multilac wishes to thank the High Commissioner of Malaysia, Roshi Ismile and 1st secretary of Malaysian High Commission, Nor Akmad for arranging the group's visas within a short period of time, and also for organising a cultural show for entertainment and souvenirs in Malaysia.



 Macksons Paints Lanka Pvt. Ltd is Sri Lanka's largest paint exporter and market leader in the Colour Bank segment. The company exports to well-established markets in India, the Maldives, China, Australia and Myanmar and today, occupies a niche market as the provider of quality customized paint solutions for a range of painting needs, having won several prestigious awards for quality and innovation over the past decade. Visitors to the Ceylinco Diabetes Centre now have the opportunity to experience the benefits of a new comprehensive foot care package that the Centre has introduced in the new year.



 The package includes a comprehensive foot examination and treatment by an in-house doctor and specially trained panel of nurses for fungal infections, cones, calluses, ingrown toe nails, an examination for protective sensation with a 10 g monofilament, vibration perception with a biothesiometer (checking joint position sense), temperature discrimination using a thermal tip, an assessment of distal pulses (manually and using a Doppler) and also includes wound dressing if necessary.

 A Fasting Blood Sugar test or a Random Blood Sugar test is also included in this package which is priced at just Rs. 1500, the Centre said.



 "We cannot overemphasize the importance of foot care for diabetics," said the Ceylinco Diabetes Centre's Senior Medical Officer Dr. Charuky Weerasuriya. "People with diabetes face a much higher risk of foot problems and if not treated promptly, foot injuries can worsen to the point when amputation and prosthetic limbs may become necessary." 



 She said the Centre's well equipped Podiatry Clinic will also offer health and diabetes education sessions to patients providing tips on health habits, risk factors, videos on foot care treatment and management of diabetes and will distribute educational material on foot care. 



 The Ceylinco Diabetes Centre's Podiatry Clinic is equipped with facilities to screen for Neuropathy, Vasculopathy, foot deformities and other risk factors with a view to preventing serious foot-related complications linked to diabetes. The clinic has all the equipment required to test the lower limbs of Diabetic patients. These include a Biothesiometer for vibration perception studies, Monofilament and neuropen to assess protective sensation, and a Doppler apparatus to assess peripheral blood flow in the lower limbs.



 Established four years ago through a collaboration between Ceylinco Healthcare Services Limited (CHSL) and the Washington Hospital Centre as a centre of excellence for the treatment and prevention of diabetes, the Ceylinco Diabetes Centre located at Park Street Colombo 2 is a comprehensive stand-alone facility offering access to medical specialists in many fields of medicine associated with complications arising from the disease.



 As a highly specialised outpatient clinic for screening, detection and management of diabetes and its complications, the Centre conducts clinics in Diabetology, Cardiology, Ophthalmology, Neurology, Dermatology, Diet and Nutrition. In addition a specialist Diabetes shop located within the Centre provides diabetics with many of their needs. The 90-day non-stop promotion "Ratthi Kirisarai Sarusarai 2008" launched last October offering consumers an opportunity to make the Smart Choice and be a Smart Daily Winner came to an exciting finish as the year ended. Ratthi gave away prizes worth Rs. 30 million to the lucky winners. The final week's seven winners and the winner of the grand prize received their gifts at the grand finale held at Cinnamon Grand with pomp and pageantry. The winner of the coveted grand prize received gifts worth up to Rs. 300,000. 



 This came as a breath-taking sequel to the presentation of prizes to 84 lucky winners from across the length and breadth of the country who received fabulous prizes every week. Draws were held every Wednesday and winners had the joy of seeing their names announced on TV as well as in print media. Each winner walked away with an array of household appliances worth up to Rs. 40,000 at the weekly draws held initially at the Fonterra Brands Lanka office premises in Biyagama and subsequently at regional locations in Badulla, Kandy, Matara, Kurunegala and Wadduwa. The enthusiasm shown by consumers was such that at all the regional draws people were seen quickly buying Ratthi packs and throwing in their entries even at the last minute with the hope of becoming a lucky winner. 



 The promotion reaped an unprecedented response because it was unique with outstandingly generous prizes on offer. The propaganda truck visiting towns and villages helped to disseminate the message of this fabulous promotion. More importantly, housewives could send as many entries as they wished, as long as they fulfilled the entry criteria that gave Ratthi consumers a choice in the way they participated. Some chose to send in the picture of Mrs. Perera on the pack. Others forwarded five lids from Ratthi yoghurt cups. 



 "We are very pleased to reward our loyal smart consumers who made the right choice by offering a host of great gifts that would delight housewives" said Achyut Reddy, Managing Director of Fonterra Brands Lanka at the Grand Finale. Top telecommunications solutions provider Lanka Bell has felicitated staff members whose service performance has contributed to the rapid expansion and growth of the company. 



 The company awarded 12 main awards and 49 Service Excellence Awards at 'One Awards', the annual employee awards night ceremony. This year's theme was 'Thunder and Lightening' which depicted Energy, Dynamism and Excellence, the three forces that operate in the organisation. 



 Addressing the event Lanka Bell Managing Director Prasad Samarasinghe gratefully acknowledged the valuable work done by award winners, whose support played a key role in the company's achievement of a number of important milestones during the year. 



 He said the company had exceeded one million CDMA subscribers this year and had fully deployed the benefits from connecting with the FLAG undersea fibre optic cable network, and introduced many value added features including paying subscribers for the overseas calls they receive on their Lanka Bell phones. 



 With its investment in FLAG, the company has emerged as a major enterprise solutions provider, opening up many opportunities for growth in voice and data solutions to a wide range of businesses.



 The most important award at the ceremony, 'Employee of the Year Award' was shared by Anuruddhika Dissanayake from the 'Switching and Planning Department' and Ajantha Caldera from the Lanka Bell National Sales Department. The awards were presented to the winners by Lanka Bell Chairman Harry Jayawardena and the company's Managing Director Prasad Samarasinghe.



 The main awards included IT person of the year, Technical person of the year - Operations, Technical person of the year - Switching and Planning, Collector of the year, Customer Care Person of the year – BPO, Customer Care Person of the year – Cluster, Sales Person of the year – Residential, Sales Person of the year – Corporate, Support Services Person of the year and Manager of the year. 



 The award night included stunning western and eastern entertainment acts and concluded with a gala dinner dance. In addition, prizes such as laptops, refrigerators and TVs were given away to the staff members at a grand raffle draw. 

 The only 100 per cent Sri Lankan owned company in the telecommunications sector, Lanka Bell is the second largest 'fixed line' provider in the country with more than a million subscribers. The company was established in 1997 with an initial investment of US$ 150 million and was the pioneer of CDMA technology in Sri Lanka. Lanka Bell continues to make substantial investments to take its technology and services to all geographic regions and all segments of the market in Sri Lanka. The National Lotteries Board's Supiri Wasana Sampatha brought luck to H.G.N. Wijesuriya, a bankrupt businessman from Ambalangoda when he won the first prize of two million rupees at its 466th draw. He plans to build a house and develop his business with of that prize money.

 The General Manager National Lotteries Board, Ashok Witharana is seen presenting the cheque of two million rupees to the winner while National Lotteries Board, Ambalangoda Sales Agent, W. S. Kalyananda is also present.



