BusinessExporters uncertain but hopeful; no upturn in the short run 

 The global financial crisis is now spreading across the globe as companies retrench people and drop expansion plans. Along with equities, banks, and the dollar crashing in most parts of the world, commodities including Sri Lanka's major foreign exchange earners- tea, rubber coconut and cinnamon have declined drastically. 



 The world financial crisis has dimmed short-term prospects for developing countries like Sri Lanka, and the volume of world trade is likely to contract for the first time since 1982, economists believe. The sharp slowdown has caused commodity prices to plummet, ending a historic five-year boom.



 Global outlook for commodities

 Recent sharp declines in oil and food prices mark the end of what has been the most historic commodity price boom of the past century. Like earlier booms, this one was driven by strong global economic growth and has come to an end with the abrupt slowdown in the global economy precipitated by the financial crisis.



 The exceptional duration of this five-year commodity boom, the number of commodities involved, and the heights that prices reached, reflect the resilience of developing country growth during this period.



 Climbed

 Between early 2003 and mid-2008, oil prices climbed by 320 percent in terms of the US Dollar, and internationally traded food prices followed by 138 percent. But the prolonged boom is clearly over, even as the social and human consequences of historic high prices linger.



 However, market analysts say that commodity prices still remain a lot higher than they were at the start of the boom, and are expected to remain higher than during the 1990s over the next 20 years, owing to biofuel-driven demand for food grains world over. Oil prices are likely to average about $75 a barrel next year and, for the next five years, real food prices worldwide are expected to remain about 25 percent higher than they were in the 1990s.



 Tea 

 Tea which has been Sri Lanka's largest export revenue source for decades, is the third highest foreign exchange earner after garments and remittances, and fetched US $ 1.1 bn in 2007. 

 Former Tea Exporters Association (TEA) Chairman, Rohan Fernando speaking to The Nation Economist said that what the tea industry faced was global recession and not a demand crisis. 



 "I don't think any expert can tell as to when this will end, and find the actual depth of this crisis. What we are facing is the after effects of a financial crisis which is not a demand crisis. Although normally during a recession, tea consumption goes up, here the buying power of import economies, is seriously hampered. But this will at least take another 3 to 6 months to stabilise. We should have patience and think from medium to long term. In the short term, we have to somehow sustain business. We can do this by increasing productivity and efficiency and continue to do so even when economy turns around." Fernando said. 



 Tea prices have slightly gone up by Rs 10 to 15 a kilo and due to stringent measures followed only the strongest quality teas arrive at the auction now, Fernando said. 



 "Earlier we get a lot of poor quality teas. The problem was that a lot of factories were mushrooming when the tea industry was making profit. There are too many factories in the country now. In a recession such as this, all this will get cleared, and only strong and resilient ones will stay on. This will continue to happen in the future. That is danger of recession. Or else you will have to nationlise the industry."



 Fundamentals 

 "In any enterprise, you have to adhere to the fundamentals of the industry. For instance if you take tea, the fundamental requirement is to pluck the two leaves and a bud and you have to control quality and wastage. If you pluck five leaves and a bud you are flouting the fundamentals of the industry. That's just one point of the whole problem," he added. 



 "If you increase the number of factories, you need more leaves and smallholders start plucking from the bottom of the bush. What happens in a recession is that all these will get exposed. That is what I feel is happening. On the other hand, the commodity prices depend on supply and demand. We have to accept the norm that things that go up can come down." 



 Aid package

 Commenting on proposed government stimulus plan for tea Fernando said "My personal view is that this aid package is all political, because people were shouting slogans. You must have a Distress Fund, and if you are really bad, that money must be used to help them. But money should really be invested for marketing and improving our market share in the world market."



 He further said, "There's hardly being spend for branding and marketing. No one is asking for favours here. The industry is only asking that CESS fund be used for this. Only Rs. 30 million was allocated last year when you are looking at a US 1.1 bn industry which is highly disproportionate. At least 10 per cent from the CESS Fund should be utilised for this. This is a medium and long term measure. If we can't understand that, then we should continue to be a subsidiary nation, being happy when prices are up and being unhappy when there's a recession. But one way the government can provide relief is by cutting down interest rates which will be a great boon to exporters and industries." Fernando said. 



 Rubber 

 President of the Colombo Rubber Traders Association (CRTA) Sunil Poholiyadde sharing views on Sri Lanka's second largest export crop, with The Nation Economist, said that with the recession hitting the rubber industry, prices have come down by Rs. 100. This is a drastic drop where the industry cannot survive. 



 "Since mid December there's an increasing trend in rubber prices, which is to a certain extent supply and demand driven. Seventy per cent of the natural rubber production goes to the automobile industry in the form of tyres. So automobile industry has to pick up for rubber industry to boom again." 



 "On top of that, the link between natural and synthetic rubber rests on oil prices. The drastic reduction of oil prices affected the rubber industry to a great extent, because manufactures who switched to natural rubber when oil prices rose, will return to synthetic rubber when oil prices fall, since it's a cheaper option." Poholiyadde said. 



 He said that the industry welcomed the relief package offered by the Government where it has assured a price of Rs 150 per kilo to the grower. 



 "If the grower was to get Rs. 150, the auction price should be Rs. 175 plus, with Rs. 25 being the manufacturing cost. But Crepe Rubber as well as RSS are now trading at Rs. 150, in which scenario the grower will not get Rs. 150. We don't see how this certified price can be established in the market when it's driven by supply and demand and also by world market conditions. But the Government should seek to stop the import of natural rubber into the country and thereby stabilise prices." 

 He added that December and January are peak cropping months for rubber. But this time, December was not so good as there was interruption by rain. "We are expecting a good crop in January. Now there was slight decline from about Rs 5 to 10, in today's auction. Come February the production will go down and we expect prices to increase". 



 Automobile industry

 The industry however depended on the requirement of automobile manufacturers, Poholiyadde said. "If the tyre industry is booming, definitely natural rubber price would improve. Mid to long term we do expect a definite improvement. But it's very difficult to predict as it depends on various situations from weather to economic." 



 However 70 per cent of the local production was consumed locally by the solid tyre industry, which has scaled down operations as they may be not having foreign orders coming in, Poholiyadde added. 



 Coconut 

 Although the Government has proposed stimulus packages to tea, rubber, cinnamon along with apparels & footware, tourism and construction industries, coconut industry has been left out. Giving an insight of the coconut industry, President of the Desiccated Coconut Millers Association, Felix Fernandopulle said that the industry was indeed in a crisis situation. 



 "We are in a crisis right now. Because of the world recession, edible oil has dropped from US $ 1,400 to 550 a metric ton and Desiccated Coconut (DC) from US$ 2,200 to 1,100. As a result coconut price in Sri Lanka has come down naturally. However duty on edible oil was jacked up to Rs. 40 a kilo from an earlier 15% levy, which is equivalent of increasing duty by 300 per cent, as duty of 15 per cent came to around Rs. 10 earlier. When duty goes up VAT and other surcharges also go up, so the landed price of edible oil here is about 230 per cent of world market prices." Fernandopulle said. 



 He however added that, " Inspite of Government increasing import duty, coconut prices were still between Rs. 15 and 18, whereas at a lower duty rate during last June and July, coconuts were around Rs 20 and 25. With the world crisis and all commodity prices coming down, invariably coconut prices also must come down. We have to be a little realistic with world market condition," he pointed out. 



 Solution

 "Unless a solution is found soon, the coconut industry in general and DC industry in particular, will not be able to survive too long." Fernandopulle added. 



 Cinnamon 

 Although not a major export crop, Sri Lanka produces 90 per cent of the world's cinnamon. However in the future, Prof. D. N. Weerasinghe of the Faculty of Agriculture of the University of Ruhuna said, that although what will happen cannot be fully predicted, exports are expected slump within the quarter. 

 "This may be temporary with the recession in Latin American countries, but we cannot fully predict what will happen. Local consumption is a mere 10 per cent, so world market prices have a big impact on local cinnamon industry." Prof. Weerasinghe said. 



 "My personal view is that exports will go down within the next three months, as purchasing power of Latin American countries has been severely hampered. However purchases for the perfume industry in Europe are expected to continue. 90 per cent of Ceylon Cinnamon is for export and the market is still there for cut cinnamon." 



 "But cinnamon exports are picking up. Prices were around Rs. 600 and slumped to even Rs 300. Now prices have picked up between Rs. 350 to 400. Although the Government had introduced a subsidy scheme, as far as I am aware, it's not available any more." Confifi Group's Chairman Deshamanya Prof. M T A Furkhan took on the mantle as President of the Institute of Chartered Corporate Secretaries of Sri Lanka, now billed as the reviver of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries & Administrators in Sri Lanka which has lain dormant for a few years although in existence in Sri Lanka for over fifty years. Having affiliated itself to the Institute of Chartered Secretaries & Administrators, the oldest charter body in the UK, the ICCS, will work on persuading the parent body to reduce the prohibitive fees charged for the UK examinations, pursuing the option of conducting examinations in Sri Lanka in collaboration with the UK body or having its own examinations set on the lines of the UK template, while also uplifting the profile of the institute and its role in the corporate sphere. 



 Furkhan, who is entrusted with stewardship of the body for the third time, recalls that on the last occasion too he was persuaded by the membership to assume leadership to revive the institute. "Once again, I have been entrusted with a similar task at a time the institute is in, to use the words of the current London CEO Roger Dickinson, "...a parlous state." The reason we changed the name is that we foresee the Chartered Secretary playing a much more pivotal role in the global and local corporate milieu in the current context but the importance of this title is not reflective of this. Adding the term 'corporate' to the institute's name gives the drive and focus that we want for this all important thrust person in the boardroom."



 An eminent entrepreneur whose distinguished standing in the corporate milieu has led to numerous pioneering initiatives, including those in the tourism industry of the country, Furkhan is determined to ensure that the Chartered Secretary is given the due recognition in the corporate board room that befits the title. "Look at the profile of our membership," he states. "The Director General of the Colombo Stock Exchange Surekha Sellahewa and Chairman of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce Jayampathi Bandaranayake are two eminent individuals who are at top of the mind recall. The Institute grants certificates only to individuals who have a very thorough knowledge of the Companies Act, business and commercial law, sound company secretarial practice, accountancy, management and a through comprehension of the rules, regulations and workings of the local stock exchange, capital markets and Securities and Exchange Commission Act. Another crucial area of expertise that a Chartered Secretary has is corporate governance, which has become the axis upon which the corporate world functions. Our Chartered Secretaries can contribute immensely in this knowledge area as this is their unique area of expertise."



 He adds that a Chartered Secretary is a person who carries the conscience of the Board of Directors, a role that has become increasingly significant in the modern day boardroom. "The role of the Chartered Secretary or Company Secretary is a value addition to the business of the company, the Board, the industry and the corporate community. The knowledge gathering of a Company Secretary is all encompassing and not simply confined to accountancy or law. The Companies Act stipulates that every registered company shall have a Company Secretary. Similarly every Ministry, Department, State Corporation, Provincial Council, District Council and Local Government Institution is in need of a Company Secretary. Currently these assignments are handled by accountants, lawyers and directors, whose knowledge and training is insufficient to dealing with rudiments of meetings, minutes, resolutions, employment contracts, insurance and other similar areas. This is where a Chartered Secretary has the distinct advantage as the confidante to the Board, to handle such confidential matters."



 Furkhan points out that the ICCS has a distinct and crucial role to play in the corporate world. "In a scenario where we are said to have some 40,000 limited liability companies registered in the country and regulated by up to date Company Law, Capital Market Regulations and a series of legislative enactments relating to business, there is an urgent need to build up this profession as in other Commonwealth countries such as UK, Australia, India, Pakistan, New Zealand, Canada, to ensure that a Chartered Secretary is once again elevated to the eminence the office held in years past.

"In any enterprise, you have to adhere to the fundamentals of the industry. For instance if you take tea, the fundamental requirement is to pluck the two leaves and a bud and you have to control quality and wastage. If you pluck five leaves and a bud you are flouting the fundamentals of the industry. That's just one point of the whole problem," he added. 

 "If you increase the number of factories, you need more leaves and smallholders start plucking from the bottom of the bush. What happens in a recession is that all these will get exposed. That is what I feel is happening. On the other hand, the commodity prices depend on supply and demand. We have to accept the norm that things that go up can come down."



