PoliticsPresident wants media cameras to leave him alone Rajapaksa unhappy with state media, changes likely soon President Rajapaksa told Ranatunge to give up any idea he had of being reinstated. Instead, the President promised Ranatunge a cabinet portfolio. However, Ranatunge is not to be thus distracted. He is believed to have told a personal friend in the media community that even if he was offered the Premiership, he would not give up his claim for the Chairmanship of Sri Lanka Cricket On December 30, President Mahinda Rajapaksa summoned his cabinet of ministers and presented his proposals for a 'mini budget' offering a host of relief measures for the public. The proposals recommended the reduction of the prices of petrol, diesel and kerosene oil, reduced the interest rates on loans and restricted charging penalties on those who are unable to make their loan payments. It was also proposed that allocations to ministries and to the office of the President, Prime Minister and Opposition Leader be reduced and all ministers take a 50 percent reduction on their house rent allowance. In the backdrop of the Supreme Court order that petrol prices be reduced to Rs. 100 per litre, the President's proposals reduced petrol by Rs. 22 for three wheelers, Rs. 2 for all other petrol users and also diesel and kerosene by Rs. 10. The Cabinet unanimously supported the proposals and a press briefing was held that very night in order to inform the public about the relief package. 



 Ministers Bandula Gunewardane, Anura Priyadarshana Yapa, Sarath Amunugama and Lakshman Yapa Abeywardane participated in the press conference and explained to journalists the modalities of the relief package. They said that amidst grave economic conditions, the government had put aside Rs. 1.6 billion to provide the public with this relief package. 



 Although the relief package dominated headlines for about a day, the government's major victory came on January 2, when the troops managed to capture the whole of Kilinochchi, what was formerly the LTTE's de facto capital in the north. Army Chief Lt. Gen. Sarath Fonseka said on January 1 that the army should move into Kilinochchi within the next 48 hours but less than 24 hours later, President Mahinda Rajapaksa was to summon a meeting of his cabinet and service commanders and inform them about the fall of Kilinochchi. Media personnel were also invited to the meeting held at Temple Trees where the announcement was made. 



 Election year 

 All this bodes well for the government when it faces the February 14 provincial council elections in the North Western and Central provinces. In fact, senior government sources say the Southern and Uva provincial councils are also likely to be dissolved in February and elections held at the end of March. It is also likely that parliament will be dissolved in the beginning of May 2009 and elections held at the end of June. Astrologers advising the government have claimed that elections held in April, May and June of 2009 will be advantageous for the government. 



 An important cabinet reshuffle also took place last week with Minister Sarath Amunugama being sworn in as Minister of Public Administration while Minister Anura Priyadarshana Yapa being given the portfolio of Investment Promotion previously held by Amunugama. Although it was initially reported that the President had taken on the media portfolio for himself, this report was refuted by the government in a subsequent statement. Following SMS alerts by the Daily Mirror newspaper which claimed "President has taken over Media Ministry in cabinet reshuffle a short while ago: official sources", several newspapers the next day carried the story in a prominent place. That evening, Government Information Director Anusha Palpita was to refute the news report by issuing an official press statement. The statement said that Minister Anura Priyadharshana Yapa was still in charge of the Media Ministry. However, inside sources say that a gazette notice had been prepared stating that the Ministry of Media was being taken over by the President but following discussions with several ministers, the President had decided to abandon the plan. 

 Media party



 Be that as it may, the President's annual media soiree was held in grand style on Monday (29 December) at Temple Trees. Media personnel from both the state and private media were present at the function. In signature style, President Rajapaksa went from table to table greeting the media personnel. He also engaged in many walks down memory lane with members of the media he has known over a long period. Walking up the journalists from the Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation, President Mahinda Rajapaksa criticised the team for their news coverage. "Why are you always telecasting footage of me? There are so many other things happening in this country. There are so many other ministers. Why not show them? Don't you know that when you keep telecasting my images, that becomes damaging for me? Even my son, who is in the Navy, told me about this. Try to change this," the President advised. 



 An Indian journalist who was present asked the President about the Sri Lankan cricket team's tour to Pakistan. President Rajapaksa responded that he knew nothing about the organisation of the tour. However, the Indian scribe persisted, saying that a state owned English newspaper had stated that the President had approved the tour. Turning to the editor of the paper in question, the President admonished him, telling him not to attribute things to him that were not true. The editor was to respond that he was no longer the editor of the paper in question, having being removed from the position after publishing statements by the Army Commander that stirred a hornets' nest in Tamil Nadu. 



 It is believed that the President is concerned about the way the state media is currently functioning and changes are likely in the top order of these institutions in the near future. 



 The Politics of cricket 

 The politicisation of Sri Lankan cricket has become a hot topic in recent days following a spat between Arjuna Ranatunge and the Minister of Sports Gamini Lokuge. In the past, although political greats such as N.M. Perera, Robert Senanayake and Gamini Dissanayake held the position of Chairman of the Board of Control for Cricket, they managed to keep politics and the game poles apart. 



 However, with Sri Lanka's victory at the 1996 World Cup, the Board of Control for Cricket or the BCCSL became a much sought after place, with television contracts, advertising contracts and international touring contracts flowing in like never before. Along with the contracts came vast amounts of money resulting in several leading businessmen being drawn to the goldmine and fighting for the top slot as Chairman of Sri Lanka Cricket. 



 Because of the many corrupt practices taking place each time an election was held to choose a board for Sri Lanka Cricket, the board was dissolved and an interim committee appointed in its place. In 2004, following the UPFA victory at the general election, MP and former cricket skipper Arjuna Ranatunge was appointed Deputy Minister of Tourism. However, Ranatunge was actually hoping to be appointed Sports Minister or Chairman of the SLC Interim Committee. When these aspirations were not met, Ranatunge resigned from his deputy ministership. Thus disillusioned, Ranatunge's name was even included in the list of SLFP MPs that the Mangala Samaraweera-Sripathi Sooriyaarachchi duo had promised to win over to the opposition to defeat the government at the budget vote in 2007. President Mahinda Rajapaksa stepped in at this point and prevented Ranatunge's crossing over. As a result of that agreement, Ranatunge was appointed Chairman of the SLC Interim Committee in January 2008. 

 However, over the course of the year, Ranatunge had spats with Minister Lokuge, the cricket team and also several media personnel. When the tensions came to a head in the latter part of the year, Minister Lokuge dissolved the Interim Committee and appointed the Sports Ministry Secretary as the Competent Authority of Sri Lanka Cricket. Ranatunge became a serious problem for the government after he scheduled an England tour for the Sri Lankan team at the same time that the Indian Premier League tournament was being held causing some serious friction with India. Several cricketers were also peeved with Ranatunge over this issue. The government was also under pressure since it was banking on India's support for the military operations in the north. 



 Lokuge vs Captain Cool

 But Ranatunge is once again lobbying to be appointed Chairman of the Interim Committee once it is reconstituted and has met President Rajapaksa in this regard several times. However, Minister Lokuge is threatening that if Ranatunge is reappointed, he would resign his portfolio as Sports Minister.



 On December 28, on the way to the seventh day alms giving of the mother of Highways and Road Development Minister T.B. Ekanayake, President Rajapaksa was to invite Ranatunge to accompany him on the chopper ride to Yapahuwa. Explaining the issues that had been created during his tenure as Interim Committee Chairman, President Rajapaksa told Ranatunge to give up any idea he had of being reinstated. Instead, the President promised Ranatunge a cabinet portfolio. However, Ranatunge is not to be thus distracted. He is believed to have told a personal friend in the media community that even if he was offered the Premiership, he would not give up his claim for the Chairmanship of Sri Lanka Cricket. 



 Although both the UNP and the UPFA were hoping to appoint strong Chief Ministerial candidates to contest the North Western Provincial Council election in February, the efforts were unsuccessful. As a result, former Chief Minister Athula Wijesinghe will be the UPFA pick while former Wayamba Opposition Leader Namal Senerath will be the UNP's nominee for Chief Minister. 



 When Wijesinge requested the top slot, several provincial councillors and local government members from Kurunegala registered their strong protest. As a result, President Rajapaksa finally decided that the position would go to the candidate with the most number of preferential votes. However, the President also summoned the Kurunegala members for a discussion at which he was to state the case for Wijesinghe. Having being thus advised the Kurunegala members agreed to allow Wijesinghe to contest the CM post. 



 Friction over North Western CM

 The UNP was hoping to get Gamini Jayawickrema Perera, Dayasiri Jayasekera or Sajith Premadasa to contest as CM candidate from North Western, however all three members turned the offer down. Jayawickrema Perera and Akila Viraj Kariyawasam have been in charge of nominations for the North Western Province. Recently, UNP Leader Ranil Wickremesinghe held discussions with MP Indika Bandaranaike and asked him to contest as Chief Minister for North Western. Bandaranaike who looked at the nominations list, was to answer that the candidates had been chosen at the whims of Jayawickrema Perera and Kariyawasam and not merit and under the circumstances, he could not possibly accept the candidature. 



 It was after this last ditch effort failed that Wickremesinghe decided to go ahead with nominating the former Opposition Leader Namal Senerath as CM candidate for the North Western Provincial Council. 



 Last Sunday (28) Wickremesinghe held discussions with Amara Piyaseeli Rathnayake, Indika Bandaranaike, Johnston Fernando, N.V.K.K. Weragoda, Rukman Senanayake and Karu Jayasuriya about the North Western Provincial Council nominations list. 



 Many of those present severely criticised the nomination of Namal Senerath as the North Wester Chief Ministerial pick. Fernando and Bandaranaike were to counter that Senerath had been number six on the UNP's preferential vote list at the previous election and it was unethical to appoint him when there were five candidates who were ahead of him who might be suitable. The protests proved futile however since nomination papers had already been signed by the candidates and so it was that Senerath's nomination went ahead. 



 Meanwhile, the brother of Minister Janaka Bandara Tennakoon, Asoka Bandara Tennakoon is contesting the Central Provincial Council election on the UNP ticket from Matale. It is alleged that he is contesting under the UNP because he was not given a nomination by the UPFA. On the other hand, Minister Tennakoon's son Pramitha Bandara Tennakoon will be contesting on the UPFA ticket in Matale. 



 Meanwhile, Sri Lanka Freedom Party Mahajana Wing party member and former councillor Upulangani Malagamuwa has not been given a nomination from the UNP for the North Wester poll. It is learnt that she will be contesting under the UNP alliance at the next parliamentary election.



