BusinessThe Colombo bourse revived in the latter part of the trading week with year end corporate buying interest to strengthen its portfolio values and remarkable victory by Sri Lankan forces in the North.Troops advanced further in the north frontline and captured the closest most important base of TigerTerrorists Friday morning. However unconstructive business environment with the negative impacts from the slowing down world economy has put pressure on the indices. The yardstick All Share Price Index (ASPI) gained 72.4 points to close at 1,578.5 while the more sensitive Milanka Price Index augmented 48.7 points WoW to stand at 1,696.8. 



 On Monday the market commenced trading with a negative note following the festival atmosphere and long holiday weekend. ASPI ended lower at 1,496.4 (-9.7 points) and MPI closed at 1,636.5 (-11.6 points). John Keels, Seylan Merchant and Vallible Power saw some investor interest.



 Downward trend persisted on Tuesday with both indices closing red. ASPI lost 11.9 points to register

 1,484.5 and MPI plunged 24.5 points to 1,612.0. Distilleries posted a crossing amounting to 800,000 shares at Rs.50 per share. More trading interest was on Distilleries, Seylan Merchant and Merchantbank.

 Market revived on Wednesday, the last trading day of the year 2008 with year end corporate buying

 interest to strengthen its portfolio values. Stimulus package which included downward revision of petroleum prices and tax relieves on exporters may have partly contributed to the revitalization. ASPI gained 18.5 points to 1,503.0 and MPI advanced 19.3 points to 1,631.3. John Keells, Seylan Bank and



 Walker & Greig were the mostly sought counters by the investors.

 Momentum was fuelled up by the unveiling of military victory in Killinochchi on Friday, the first trading day of the new year and the last trading day of the week. Capturing Killinochchi by the troops boosted retail investor confidence and improved activity levels regardless of the company performance or position. ASPI stood at 1,578.5 (+75.4 points) and MPI winded up at 1,696.8 (+65.5 points) at theend of the trading week.



 Foreign participation represented 22.9% of the total market activity while the market ended as net

 foreign buyers of Rs.25.4mn. Average turnover amounted to Rs.112.9mn. Economy update – The lowest point to point inflation recorded since July 2007



 Colombo Consumers' Price Index – New (CCPI-N) point-to-point inflation declined to 14.4% in

 December 2008, which is the lowest since July 2007 (16.3% in November 2008). Twelve month

 moving average inflation dropped marginally to 22.6% in December 2008 from 23% in November 2008, however remained high when compared to 15.8% in December 2007. The easing inflationary pressure in the domestic market during the month can be directly attributable to the down ward revision of retail fuel prices and declining purchasing power.

 In the inflation index, Food and non alcoholic beverages sector (represents 46.7% of base value weight) posted only marginal growth (+0.5%MoM) and help maintained a low inflation. However in the sector



 vegetables and fish increased due to seasonal demand and might be due to supply shortages.

 Furthermore, Clothing and Footwear (+1.7% MoM), Health (+0.7% MoM), Furniture H/H Equipment and Routine Maintenance of the House (+0.2% MoM) also showed easing out pressure on prices. The Transport sector, which is also the third largest contributor to the index, reported a point-to-point decline in December 2008 as opposed to November 2008. Price levels of Housing, Water, Electricity,



 Gas and Other fuels was also positive on the index with a point-to-point decline in December 2008 as

 compared to November 2008. This can be due to favorable downward price revisions of electricity, gasand other fuels during the latter part of the year 2008. CCPI-N point-to-point inflation recorded a decline for the consecutive six month after peaking to 28.2% in June 2008. It is notable that the local inflation showed a positive correlation to the crude oil prices during the year. Crude oil hit all time high $146.5 per barrel in mid July 2008. 



 However external shocks could not be considered as the only factor of the higher domestic inflation rate when comparedto inflation in the regional states. However with the melt down of global economy, resulting in a drop in crude oil prices and commodity prices impacted favorably on inflation during the latter part of the year. Mihin Lanka has announced the recommencement of its operations, with effect from 1st January 2009.

 In accordance with the aspirations enshrined in 'Mahinda Chinthanaya', Mihin Lanka was founded to provide 'low cost' air transportation to the travelling public of Sri Lanka. This gave an opportunity for a wider segment of society to travel abroad by air, at affordable prices.



 Mihin Lanka recently acquired their new Boeing 737-800 type aircraft (2008 vintage) of ultra modern technology, fitted with CFM56-7B26 engines, seating 186. To facilitate local exporters and manufacturers/traders, this aircraft would provide approximately 3 tons of cargo capacity.



 Starting from 1st January 2009, Mihin Lanka will operate 6 days a week to Dubai (except on Saturday), with Colombo departure at 1800 hours. Mihin Lanka is also on target to commence scheduled operations to Indian cities within the month of January 2009.

 To assist Buddhist pilgrims, plans have been finalised to operate weekly flights to Buddhagaya, effective from February 2009.

 Customers have the option of either contacting their own travel agent or the Mihin Lanka Call Centre directly, on 011/2002255, for information on bookings and ticketing assistance.



 Mihin Lanka presently operates two ticketing offices, at the BMICH and at the EML Building – No. 62, W.A.D. Ramanayake Mawatha, Colombo 2 (Telephone numbers: 011/2300313–5) – to better serve the needs of their customers.

 For any further information, please contact Gamini Abeywardena, Media Coordinator of Mihin Lanka, on 0773-945044. Leo Burnett Solutions Inc., the Most Awarded Agency for 2008 Completes a most rewarding year with a haul of 40 awards including 2 international awards, 2 international finalist nominations and 38 local awards Leo Burnett Solutions Inc., brought to a close an extremely rewarding and fulfilling year of recognition for its creativity and effective marketing communication solutions. Beginning with an overwhelming achievement of securing 16 metals at The Chillies, 2008 the Sri Lankan office of the internationally acclaimed advertising agency network Leo Burnett Worldwide, went on to achieve greater heights throughout the year at many leading international award festivals. 



 The highest honour for LBSI for the year was the winning of Sri Lanka's first ever international Silver at AdFest 2008 held in Pattaya, Thailand in March. The agency created local advertising history by winning the country's first ever Silver at a recognised International Advertising Awards festival. This prestigious award was presented for "Harry Potter Magic Coffee Cup" created for ODEL to promote the final edition of the Harry Potter book. The agency won 1 of only 8 Silvers awarded in the Outdoor Lotus category at AdFest 2008. The win was also a very special one for ODEL, which is a brand that has consistently won awards both locally and internationally for its communications through its partnership with LBSI over the years. 



 The agency's victorious streak abroad continued, when it obtained a Bronze award at the Asian Marketing Effectiveness Awards held in Macau in September. The "Harry Potter Magic Coffee Cup" idea was once again awarded, the Bronze in the Most Innovative Use of Media category. The effectiveness of this simple execution was recognized at these awards highlighting both the creativity as well as the effectiveness of this communications idea.



 LBSI was also nominated finalist at the prestigious Cannes Lions 2008 for the "News Reader" commercial for Sri Lanka Telecom Mobitel in the radio medium. This nomination is of extreme significance to LBSI as it is the first time the agency was awarded a finalist for its work at the prestigious Cannes Lion International Advertising Festival. 



 Leo Apple Art, a unique piece of art created by the agency in order to celebrate the 73rd global anniversary of the Leo Burnett network, was also named a Finalist at the Singapore Outdoor Advertising Awards held recently. The category in which Leo Apple Art was awarded was Ambient / Guerilla (Single or event) (Regional).Apple Art was a unique initiative in which people could participate to create an outdoor Leo Burnett billboard by placing a single apple on a poster template, with each fruit becoming a pixel-like image in a larger branded tapestry reflecting the images of the sun and moon. The gesture was taken another step further with the apples being donated to orphaned children home as a goodwill gesture, giving some of these kids their first bite into an apple. 



 This year LBSI was also among one of 5 offices to be recognized with the network's most prestigious Leo Intel Award which is presented by Leo Burnett Worldwide for outstanding and insightful thinking. Every year 5 Leo Intel awards are presented to the 5 best submissions from the entire Leo Burnett network across the globe. This year, LBSI was able to obtain this honour for their insightful thinking for the "Campaign against the Recruitment of Child Soldiers" which was a campaign created for UNICEF.

 Locally, the most significant victory for LBSI was at The Chilles 2008 where the agency emerged the biggest winner of the night proving its prowess across the Print, Radio, TV and Integrated categories. The agency received an unbeaten haul of 16 metals (4 Silver and 12 Bronze), including a Bronze for StageLight&Magic's Pusswedilla in the coveted Campaign of the Year category.



 LBSI also received the coveted 'Commercial of the Year" accolade at the Annual Sumathi Awards 2008 for its Mobitel Coverage campaign which was a unique and innovative expression of Mobitel's reach to the far corners of the island. LBSI was also bestowed with the 3rd Runner-up award for the Mobitel Smart Campaign resulting in the agency winning two of the five advertising awards of the night. 



 More recently, Leo Burnett Solutions Inc., was the star at the 5th Reggie Candappa Creative Awards with an astounding victory of 21 awards across the Radio, Print, TV and Digital Communication categories. LBSI won the two most coveted awards of the night emerging Winner in the Best in Copywriting category and winning two 1st Runner-up places in the Best in Art Direction - Print category, where no winner was awarded. 



 Trevor Kennedy, Executive Creative Director LBSI said that it is a tremendous reward for him to have the agency being recognized both locally and internationally. These awards are a recognition of our team's commitment and hard work. It has taken us a lot of effort to make it happen, we now need to reach higher and win the bigger metals both locally and internationally" he concluded. 



 Commenting on the continued success throughout the year Ranil De Silva, Managing Director LBSI stated that it is indeed gratifying to look back on the creative success we have achieved throughout the years, especially the international success the agency has achieved in 2008. "The metals won in reward for 2008 are a reflection of the hard work and dedication of our team of committed professionals ably led by Trevor. We hope to keep this momentum and reach greater heights in 2009, as it is our 10th year of operation" he stated. The State-owned MTNL, India, which had emerged as the front-runner to acquire Sri Lankan telco Suntel for about $180 mn, is said to have put the acquisition plan on the back burner. 



 A senior MTNL executive said 'it was difficult to say if the acquisition is completely off', but added: "The Suntel plan has been put on the back burner. I am not sure if the company will revive the proposal to acquire Suntel."

 The Executive who did not wish to be identified also refused to specify if MTNL had deferred its plans to acquire Suntel on account of the global financial crunch. 

 At the same time, the executive also said MTNL may have lost interest in perusing Suntel as the latter did not appear keen to conclude the deal.



 "We had appointed a consultant to help us finalise several crucial issues before going ahead with the deal. But, there has been no progress due to lack of interest from Suntel," the Executive added.

 Suntel, which has about 4,00,000 fixedline customers, is the main competitor to Sri Lanka Telecom. Nordic telecom firm Telia AB is the largest shareholder in Suntel and has a 55% stake through its holding company Overseas Telecom AB.

 Another senior MTNL executive said that deal could be off as the consultant appointed by the PSU telco had failed to find a JV partner that will hold a 50% stake in Suntel. As per the proposed deal structure, MTNL wanted to limit its stake in Suntel to 50%.

 This plan was endorsed by the Department of Telecom: "As the target company is being run by highly-skilled professionals, to maintain its existing structure with regards to HR and other policies, MTNL has in principle decided to limit its stake to 50% and is in talks to find suitable partners," the department has said of MTNL in its annual report for 2007-08.



 Industry watchers are of the view that MTNL has decided against going ahead with the Suntel deal as it is currently utilising its cash reserves to roll out 3G networks across the metro cities of Mumbai and Delhi. The company is investing upwards of Rs 500 crore for its 3G rollout.



 Earlier this year, MTNL had pipped that other companies including Telekom Malaysia and Sri Lankan firm John Keells Holdings would emerge as the highest bidder for Suntel. MTNL , which offers telecom, internet and IPTV services in the metros of Delhi and Mumbai, had been witnessing a fall in its revenues and profits over the last couple of quarters due to market saturation in these two cities.



 The PSU, which is a JV partner in Nepal's United Telecom, and also offers telecom services in Mauritius through its 100% subsidiary, has been scouting global markets for new licences to expand operations.

 It must also be pointed out that over the last couple of years, MTNL has lost its bid to acquire Telekom Kenya in addition to failing to win mobile licences in Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Bhutan and several other countries.

 -Economic Times, India Fitch Ratings Lanka has today said that Citibank N.A.-Colombo Branch (CITISL) and Standard Chartered Bank, Sri Lanka Branch's (SCBSL) 'AAA(lka)' National Long-term ratings are not affected by the Supreme Court of Sri Lanka's ruling suspending payments due from Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (CPC), on hedging agreements entered into with the aforementioned foreign banks operating in Sri Lanka and Deutsche Bank A.G., People's Bank (Sri Lanka) ('A-(lka)' (A minus (lka))/Positive) and Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC ('AA+(lka)'/Stable). 



 Given that CITISL and SCBSL are both branches and part of the same legal entities as Citibank N.A. and Standard Chartered Bank (SCB) respectively, there is no 'ring fencing' of the liabilities of the two local branches. As such, the ratings reflect the financial strength of Citibank N.A. ('A+'/Stable) and SCB ('A+'/Stable) respectively. Both of which, are rated higher than Sri Lanka's Sovereign foreign currency Issuer Default rating of 'B+'/Stable'. 



 On 28 November 2008 the Supreme Court stated that it was of the opinion that the hedging agreements between CPC and the above mentioned banks were not entered into under lawful authority. All payments due from CPC have been suspended by the order of the Supreme Court, until the final hearing and determination, which is expected to take place in February 2009. Furthermore, an investigation is currently being carried out by the Monetary Board of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka, with the Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption (Bribery Commission,) regarding the adherence to due process in entering these agreements. The findings are also expected to be presented at the final hearings in February 2009. 



 As per regulatory requirements, both branches were signatories to the transactions, and have covered their positions through back to back transactions with their respective head offices. The local branches are however exposed to counter party settlement risk. While the final court decision will not be known until early 2009, Fitch's view is that timely support would be made available to CITISL and SCBSL from their respective head offices, in order to meet their depositor and creditor liabilities in the event such support is needed; given that they are both branches and part of the same legal entities as Citibank N.A. and SCB respectively. This support is, however, dependent on any regulatory restrictions or delays in remitting money into Sri Lanka, none of which is envisaged at the moment.

 The Outlook on CITISL and SCBSL's National ratings is Stable. People's Bank, Com. Bank exposed to counterparty default risk from CPC hedging deals Fitch Ratings Lanka has last week said that People's Bank (Sri Lanka) (PB, 'A-(lka)' (A minus (lka))/Positive) and Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC (CB, 'AA+(lka)'/Stable) are exposed to counterparty default risk following the Supreme Court of Sri Lanka's ruling on 28 November 2008, suspending payments due from Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (CPC) on hedging agreements entered into with the aforementioned local banks and three other foreign banks operating in Sri Lanka, namely, Citibank N.A.-Colombo Branch (CITISL, 'AAA(lka)'), Standard Chartered Bank, Sri Lanka Branch (SCBSL, 'AAA(lka)') and Deutsche Bank A.G. Acting as intermediaries, the banks structured these transactions with corresponding positions with offshore counterparties, earning a fee/commission; thus carrying only counterparty default risk. CB's exposure comprises payments due on a 70,000 barrel contract. PB's exposure comprises payments due on a 100,000 barrel contract, including payments due to CB on a 50,000 barrel contract. The payments due from state-owned PB to its counterparties have been halted, as the bank has sought legal advice on its obligations.



 PB's 'A-(lka)' (A minus (lka)) rating was last affirmed with a Positive Outlook on 6 October 2008, contingent on a capital infusion from the Ministry of Finance, and on the implementation of other measures to meet the regulatory minimum capital adequacy ratios on a solo basis by end-2008. PB's potential loss, based on current global oil prices, could, in Fitch's opinion, result in compounding the delay in achieving the minimum capital adequacy ratios as initially expected. 



 Fitch believes that CB's ratings are not likely to be affected, as the bank's capital position is sufficient to absorb the potential losses (including payments due from PB) that may arise based on current global oil prices as estimated by management. The crystallisation of the potential liability on CPC hedging agreements and any potential ensuing rating actions are contingent upon the final Supreme Court determination expected by early 2009.



