News Features2009 will be a mixed year. You will begin the year with anxiety as well as sudden changes in career as well as personal life. The positive trends would increase after May commences and the year will become positive as it progresses. 

 As the year opens up you might feel low on energy and less confident than usual. This low phase will continue till February 9 after which you would be firing on all cylinders. 



 After a high activity phase in career, there would be a change from May 1. There would be higher income, rise in socialising as well as revival of friendships. 



 Career and your status/reputation could be affected between August and October too. Further this year could start on worries about career, investment and children. 



 You need to avoid major or sudden changes in career. The need for such changes could come from January 1 and the volatile phase would remain in operation till May 17. Family life would be positive mostly. 2009 would be a more productive and gainful year in comparison to 2008. 

 You will find your luck and opportunities that would present themselves would be more vibrant and higher this year.

 The year would be most noticeable for some major changes in your temperament and the way you think between March 7 and April 19. Thinking could turn more emotional, reckless and your affections/social instincts could predominate. 

 Further you will experience a rise in the level of your interaction with people at large. There will be a significant rise in the level of contacts you make during this year till end August. 



 Avoid giving loans or taking financial risks after November commences. Family life would be positive mostly. There will be happiness and growth overall, more so between May and July. 2009 would be a positive year still, although level of hurdles would seem to rise as the year commences. 

 There could be a dip in personal relations and status overall between January and April. You will find sudden unexpected events will take place during this period which could impact life out of the blue. 



 Domestic life and career would be impacted most. Relations with siblings could take a downturn as soon as the year starts and there will be issues till May 17.Further, there would be multiple occasions when outlook and thinking could be volatile and muddled up. Please avoid any major decisions during this time and remain conservative. Major challenges should be avoided too.



 Health could be lower than usual at this time till April. Thereafter, you will find a sudden rise in health and status too. Level of luck will be good also during this period, i.e. till end July. 2009 would be a positive year. As you find the year progressing there will be gradual improvements over the last two years. You will find new opportunities in career as well as better luck. Some unexpected and sudden events could take place till the end of April in marital matters as well as career, if you are in business. 



 If unmarried, there could be sudden marriage opportunity in the first four months. You should weigh your options well as this could be a hasty decision which you could regret in the long term. The opportunities if it does not materialise could pause after May starts and could come back with a lot of intensity after you have had an opportunity to rethink once August starts. Expenses and Monetary pressures on account of family too would be high. The phase between January 1 and May 17 could be particularly trying to you. Improvement will be present after September 10. 2009 would be an eventful year for you although there would be some rise in hurdles in comparison to last two years. You still run a powerful phase, although there would be personal pressures at all times. Family life, marital matters, joint areas of work as well as personal life could be trying till May 17. 



 You will find your focus would be high but dealing with work pressures as well as people around you will rise. Work environment will change rapidly and you will not be able to do much. It would be useful to go with the flow and not create too many hurdles in the process of change. The overall scenario will turn good after May commences. 



 If unmarried, strong chances of a sudden marriage proposal present between June 16 and July 31. Status and career will still remain in a powerful phase till September 9. You will be focused and dynamic in whatever you do till this period. 2009 would be a mixed year for you. There will be a rise in position but there would be challenges overall to sustain yourself this year. 



 As the year opens up, you would experience a rise in status and position. There would be higher position in public life as well as increase in happiness in marital matters. These events will come suddenly and you should take up the opportunity as soon as it presents itself up to April. 



 Love life too could see some sudden moves and a serious relationship between January and April. Both love life and children related issues could see some minor setbacks after August 2009. You need to be cautious in this regard till October 17. 

 Money matters would be difficult till May 17 although alternate avenues could now build up from the beginning of the year. 2009 would be a positive year again, although there would be more hurdles and pressures in comparison to 2007 and 2008. You will find the gains from all the efforts of the last few years will mature now. 



 There would however be a rise in your competition as well as some disruption in your area of work after January 27. This phase could be trying after March 7 till April 19. Major changes or risks should be avoided. 



 As the year progresses you will find your gains and progress would be in an accelerated motion. You will find the quantum of gains will be highest between May and August.



 Family life would be positive, although there could be sudden changes in family life (beyond your control) which could take you either physically or mentally away from family. If applicable, birth/conception of a child will be possible between May and July. 2009 would open with challenges as well as hurdles. These would be present both in personal life and as well as professional life due to loss of position or status. Caution in this regard is required till April end, as the events could move too fast for your liking and control. 



 You should remain very careful in career and ensure your superiors as well as subordinates are well aligned with you and in harmony too. Between January 27 and May 31, is a period where love life would be highly activated and marriage matters too would be in a high activity phase. New investments during this time should be avoided too. Beyond May 2009 you will find better and more peaceful trends at home as well as career. If interested, this period could see a property acquisition till July 2009. In any case you will get gains from real estate between May and July 2009. 2009 would see a sudden spurn in the level of activity. You will find a high of family and monetary changes between January and April this year. 

 The development would be positive although you could turn careless which could spoil the future prospects after May till July. April phase could come back after August and create issues in family life till mid October.



 You will find your speech as well as expectations would be higher, although a tendency to be more bias in speech as well as sub-conscious thoughts would be felt till April end.



 Luck in money matters would be possible, while frequent travel opportunities could come up to August. Unplanned travel could come up more between January 1 and May 17. 

 The year will open up with hectic socialising. New friendships which seem like love would be possible between March 7 and April 19 and during June. 



 However not much move in love matters will take place this year. Your ability to get new friends could be curtailed due to your fixed attitude after November commences. 2009 would experience its share of challenges, although this year will see good progress and a positive outlook mostly.

 You will find a higher focus on events around you, although there would be a definite compromise in values as well as spiritual progress this year. 



 Mind would be material and unorthodox. There could be actions which are not fully approved by the society. This could lead to loss of status/position after August. 

 Monetary position and speech/level of activity in financial pursuits would rise after May. There will be good speech and expression between May and July. 



 Family life overall would be average only. There will be a brief positive and happy phase between May and July. 

 Money matters would be trying overall. The level of commitment would be higher than your resources till May 17. It is a period to remain conservative overall. 2009 would pose challenges overall as a gradual slide in resources could be felt as the year progresses. You will find monetary challenges would be high as the year commences.



 A sudden increase in financial pressures is possible due to a sudden loss or a financial liability beyond your control. This is a time when overheads would be high and expenses will continue to outstrip income, especially up to April. Investments and financial exposure should be totally controlled. 



 Family life will experience distance and a slide in relations most of the year except between May and July when a remarkable improvement would come overall. Money matters too would be challenging due to dip in gains and a rise in level of expenses most of the year except between May and July as well as post December 20.

 Pisces

 2009 is a very promising year, since efforts and work done in the last two years will all bear fruits this year.

 You will be in a changed mental position between January and April. There would be a sudden rise in gains, social activity, association with friends and celebration. 



 In between all these activities you will find your thinking would turn unorthodox and could create problems in focusing on matters at hand. Most of these changes would be felt only by you and it would not be apparent to people around you. 



 It would therefore be better to avoid making your thoughts open and further not take a stand on issues as such. It is a year when hard work would be rewarded in direct proportion to the efforts put in, there will be gains till end August in good proportion.



