FeaturesWater resource management Rational allocation and management is necessary Sri Lanka has 40 Agencies, 51 Acts and 21 drafts concerning water resource management, but no policy at all! Water is the single most natural resource that has caused so much controversy regarding its management. But the reasons for this are multifaceted and experts cite lack of political motivation and clear strategies and lack of media involvement as the factors that have driven the policy into a stalemate. Instead, policy development, they stress, should result from 'plural voices' 

 South Asia at present is fuelling a paradigm shift from water resource management policy and practice towards Integrated Water Resource Management (IWRM). This endorses constructive engagement of various stakeholders ensuring the involvement of inter-sector water resources allocation and use, institutional transformation and the participation of policy planning and implementation. All South Asian governments have endorsed the principles of IWRM and incorporated it into their general water policy statements in some form or another. 



 The International Conference on Water Resources Policy in South Asia hosted by the South Asia Consortium for Interdisciplinary Water Resources Studies (a.k.a. known as Saciwaters) was held in Colombo from the 17 – 20 December 2008. The conference brought together regional and international water professionals, academics, policy makers, activists, politicians and many other South Asian water resources persons. 



 In Sri Lanka, water happens to be the single natural resource that has created so much of controversy regarding its management. The country has 40 Agencies, 51 Acts and 21 drafts but no policy for water resource management. Previous attempts to develop a policy have failed because they did not realise rational allocation and management of the resource. Besides, stakeholder consultation was not comprehensive and transparent. The policy planning process was basically centred around a few affected ministries and it lacked a strategy for public consultation. No comprehensive effort was made to reach small water uses. The drafts over emphasised the demand management aspects often failing to offer pro-poor solutions to balance equity and efficiency. Public consultation was carried out in undue haste and public brochures were toned down. 



 The policy making process was also used as a convenient political tool from time to time. There was no mandate for the people and no risk assessment factor was built into the process. The dubious introduction of super structures without adequate explanation, also served to heavily undermine the credibility and transparency of the process. 



 Sri Lanka, among other developing countries, brags of a well informed public, which relies on media as a powerful tool for information dissemination. The water resource policy planning process though has almost always barred media from reaching information, which has fair enough led the media to paint an unsighted picture of the entire process, thus, almost always declaring policy development efforts as 'water privatisation' irrespective of their rationale. 



 Policy ownership 

 The policy has never had a long-standing clear political ownership. The initial phases of the ownership of policy development were entrusted with the Ministry of Finance and Planning. Further, the ownership of the policy swapped between ministries more than 6 times due to changes in the political regimes. The debate as to whether the policy ownership / the National Water Resource Agency should be under the President's control has further worsened the complexity of the process. 

 Political commitment is a must to develop a proper policy 



 How beastly is 'selling water'? 

 Although the development of a policy always stirs debates on 'selling water', the protestors conveniently fail to realise that all pipe borne water schemes in Sri Lanka are billed! Even certain grassroots level communities in rural areas have developed their own tariff systems to bill water supplied via community owned schemes. None of these mechanisms, if established properly render adverse effects to the communities concerned. 



 On the other hand, a comprehensive water resource management policy should include all sectors pertaining to water, including drinking water, farming water, groundwater, inland water, water trapped in ecosystems...etc, etc. One of the most successful policies on water resource management in Sri Lanka is the policy for rainwater harvesting. It happens to be the first of its kind in Sri Lanka. The success of this policy lies behind the fact that every sector involved in the policy planning process understood, unanimously, that rational allocation and management of the resource is necessary in order to achieve desired targets. 



 In essence, a policy development process should be an arena for 'plural voices' – not for just one or two voices. 

 (This article carried excerpts of Dr. Rajindra de S Ariyabandhu, an independent researcher based in Geneva and. Ranjith Ratnayake, the coordinator of the Sri Lanka Water Partnership, extracted from speeches conducted at the International Conference on Water Resources Policy in South Asia) 

 Sri Lanka's most popular art fair 'Kala Pola' , organised by the George Keyt Foundation, one of the most premier establishments for art lovers and artists, will hold its 16th edition this year. 

 Kala Pola, although originally commenced from the concept of an art fair held in European cities, its actual goal reaches deep beyond the fabulous colours and the lovely paintings. "We want to create a platform for the young and upcoming artists to feature their work and also introduce themselves to the artisans' community," said Chairman George Keyt Foundation, Cedric de Silva. 



 The key aim of George Keyt Foundation, established on June18, 1988, is to promote visual arts and revive the name of the great artist George Keyt. This foundation for art lovers and artists began its activities with only 35 members, almost one and half decades ago. But now it boasts of 250 members. He also said that although this foundation started off with a very humble beginning and at present there is a much expanded member community. 



 "We have already received more than 100 applications for this years' event," he added. This year's Kala Pola is due to feature over 250 artists and sculptors who will display their creativity to an increasingly enthusiastic Sri Lankan and expatriate clientele, in a lovely atmosphere that will not only amaze its visitors with the splendid colours and the intricate paintings and sculpts but also with music, songs and fun. Although last year the Kala Pola was held inside the premises of the Viharamahadevi Park, it will once again return to its usual location; the pavements of the Ananda Coomaraswamy Mawatha. Kala Pola will come alive on January 25 (Sunday) at 10.00 am. Conceptualized by George Keyt Foundation, Kala Pola enjoys the unbroken patronage of the John Keells Group for the 16th consecutive year. 



 There have been so many artists and sculptors who have used this open art fair to feature their work and create a name for themselves. Sudath Abeysekara is such an artist who has been participating in Kala Pola for quite some time. He assures that this is a wonderful opportunity for budding artists. "This is the only major foundation or the event for the artists to gather and display their works. So, the artists should take use of it," he asserted. Sudath also remarked that the reason behind the lack of response for art or the enthusiasm for it is the lack of knowledge about art in people. "In Sri Lanka, art is still in an embryonic stage; some of the latest experiments are not even heard of by most of the Sri Lankans. 



 This system should be changed. People should be made more aware of what art is and the interest should be cultivated," opined Sudath. He added that the mental and physical satisfaction that an artist obtains through finishing a painting should be made aware to the people. "Art is a vital mode which can be used to change one's thoughts. So in an era where change in thoughts is constantly addressed, more priority should be given to this medium," he further said.



