Features

 The birds come in their thousands. hundreds of thousands. To Jatinga, a tiny village on a ridge in the North Cachar Hills district in Southern Assam. Rare and exotic birds; the Red Headed Trogon, the Spangled Drongo, Blue Breasted Quail, the Khalij Pheasant, Watercock, the Eurasian Curlew, the Paradise Flycatcher, Mountain Imperial Pigeons, Maroon Orioles, Crested Serpent Eagles, Red Junglefowl, Veenal Hanging Parrots, Scimitar Babblers, the Silver Eared Mesia, the Blue Winged Minia, Woodcock, Doves, White Throated Kingfishers, and a host of Ashy Woodswallows. There are others. It is a mysterious phenomenon that happens every autumn at the end of the monsoon months, and always on moonless and foggy late dark evenings between 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. Flying birds come crashing to the ground with no warning, and the local tribes at first took this unnatural happening to indicate that spirits had been sent from the sky to terrorise them. But now torches further attract and confuse the birds. Villagers kill them for food.



 The mist and fog hang like a veil around the beautiful face of a young woman over Jatinga, which is located on a spur of the Haflong ridge – an offshoot of the main ridge of the Borail Range. Curiously the doomed birds do not attempt to fly away after they land near the lights. Dazed and dishevelled, they fall easy prey to the villagers, some of whom use bamboo poles to bring down the hovering birds. Records maintain that almost fifty different bird species are attracted each year to the Jatinga ridge. Invariably they fly in only from the north and when the winds fly against them from the south. The suicidal activity of the birds has never been explained. It is inevitable that the birds get caught up in the fog and the wind and get disorientated. But still they come – year after year after year.



 Curiously it was Arne Naess, the Norwegian mountaineer, who asked me whether I knew of the suicidal birds when we were on a flight back to England from Bermuda in 1985. We talked through the night despite him being in a very weak state as he had only just returned from leading a successful Norwegian seventeen-man assault on Mount Everest, which strangely included the English mountaineer Chris Bonnington. It was one of the most successful expeditions ever. All seventeen members made the summit from the South Col South East ridge. As I said, he was in a very weak state. He had lost an awful lot of weight and his voice was reduced to a faint high-pitched whisper. He talked a lot about death. "You know, Christopher, they say you have to give 100 percent in order to climb Everest. But they are wrong. You have to give 120 percent nearly all the time. And death is always around you; frozen bodies, discarded oxygen tanks, graves. Oblivion is only inches away, and permanent exhaustion. You are forever fighting the elements and yourself. There are others there but this is a lonely business. You know that if you do not have the will to survive it is a simple matter of having to chose between life and death."



 Arne Naess, who was born Arne Raab in 1937, was the son of a German ski-jumping coach and Kikki Naess, one of Norway's most prominent families. His uncle Arne Naess, after whom he was named, was the famous mountaineer, ecologist and philosopher who, in 1950, had led the expedition that made the first ascent of Tirich Mir in Pakistan. When his parents' marriage broke up after the Second World War he moved to Norway with his mother. He was eight years old and his name was changed to Naess. Picked on at school because he spoke German in a nation still bitter about the Nazi occupation, he eventually won the admiration of his peers for his dare-devil exploits. It is said that he celebrated his last day at school in 1956 by climbing the National Theatre buildings in Oslo, leaving his school cap on the building's spire. Later he was introduced to serious climbing by his uncle – a passion that absorbed him for the rest of his life. He eventually left Norway to work in New York for another uncle, Erling Naess, who taught him about the shipping business. By late 1960s, when I met him and he became a director of my Canadian publishing company, he was estimated to be worth $100 million. By then he had led a 1979 Norwegian expedition to Numbur, a mountain 30 miles south of Everest. This was followed by several other important climbs. The passion endured but Everest always remained his main focus.



 It was curious that Arne Naess mentioned Jatinga and the suicide birds. But, after the exhausting experience of the successful Everest expedition, death was very much on his mind. He had several close calls and asked me point blank at one time during our long conversation whether I had ever contemplated suicide. I said I hadn't although I had written about it in an earlier 1970 novel Fool's Gold about a young financial adventurer who loses everything in a stock market adventure. He seemed fascinated. And then he explained that he himself had never actually considered suicide but, like the Jatinga birds, had forever felt the urge to flirt with death and, if necessary, strive for and achieve the impossible. It was like a magnet for him. He never thought he would succeed in the Everest experience and never thought that, even if he achieved the summit, he would ever actually get back to base camp. The effort was beyond anything he could have imagined and it changed his life.



 We remained friends – even after I had sold all my North American business interests in 1988 and returned to England to concentrate on writing and exploration. By then he had left his first wife to marry the American singer Diana Ross who he had met in the Bahamas. The turbulent marriage ended in 1999.



 I met Arne Naess for the last time in 2003 and after The Royal Geographical Society's 50th Anniversary movie of the first ascent of Mount Everest by Sir Edmund Hillary and Sherpa Tenzing in 1953. As usual, we talked about the good old times together, turmoil in the financial markets, and our climbing and writing ambitions. He told me he had met and fallen in love with a Norwegian girl Camilla Astrup but had no intention of giving up his mountaineering career. "There are still more peaks to conquer", he laughed. "Some of them never climbed before." He seemed very happy and at ease with himself. Therefore it was an awful shock when I heard, first on the radio in England and then read in the next day's newspaper, that on 13 January 2004, while visiting his good friend Johan Rupert in South Africa, he had died in a freak climbing accident while descending a peak in the Groot Drakenstein mountains near the town of Franschoek outside Cape Town. They said it was an accident and I am convinced it was not anything else. They had recommended that a local mountain guide accompany him on his climb but he had refused this. According to police reports Naess' anchoring equipment loosened from the porous mountainside, and he fell a hundred metres to his death.



 Arne Naess died doing what he enjoyed most in his life. But I never forgot that curious emotional conversation I had with him in 1985 after his Everest expedition, when he asked whether I knew about the suicide birds of Jatinga.

 Sir Christopher Ondaatje is the author of Journey to the Source of the Nile and 

 Hemingway in Africa. He is a trustee of The National Portrait Gallery in England.

 Source: The Sri Lankan Anchorman Toronto, Canada The interschool competition is an opportunity for Sri Lankan students to explore the world of theatre William Shakespeare is arguably the most celebrated playwright the world has ever known. For centuries, Shakespearean theatre has found a permanent place in the realm of thought provoking entertainment and it continuous to mesmerize people in all communities around the world with its captivating, philosophical creations. What Shakespeare has left the world with is a magnificent collection of philosophical rhetoric, deeply exploring life and human relationships as much as it dwells into the 'undiscovered country' that 'we know not of'. The insightful education that is encapsulated in Shakespeare's immortal dramatic creations is immense and is yet completely undiscovered. The Shakespeare Centre Sri Lanka strongly believes that this knowledge and creativity should essentially be pursued by all students and enthusiasts of drama and theatre. Shakespearean Challenge 2009, is thereby an endeavour to help serve this cause by bringing Shakespearean theatre closer to Sri Lankan students. 



 Shakespearean Challenge 2009 is thereby a unique project initiated by the Shakespeare Centre Sri Lanka, with the objective of promoting Shakespearean theatre among school children in our country. This programme consists of 5 different competitions featuring Drama, Oration, Essay writing, Shakespeare translation as well as the inter school Quiz competition. All these competitions are completely based on the 37 plays written by William Shakespeare. This programme is therefore an opportunity for students representing schools in Sri Lanka to compete with one another based on their knowledge of Shakespearean dramatic creations as well as an open stage for students to impress their skills in practically applying that knowledge in performance. The significance of Shakespearean challenge is that it provides an opportunity for students to express their vision on the subject of Shakespearean theatre.



 The inter school quiz will be designed and presented not merely to encourage competition. Instead, it will focus on involving students in a process of exploring Shakespeare's works. Students participating in this quiz will be expected to maintain a very basic understanding of all Shakespearean plays. They will also require a general understanding of the characteristic features of Shakespearean theatre as well as the most popular, recurring themes in Shakespearean plays. As a feature of this quiz competition, students may also be expected to use the Shakespearean scripts and draw conclusions on the content of a given text. Since Shakespearean Challenge 2009 is particularly aimed at providing an educational experience through healthy competition, participating students will be given prior instructions to facilitate their preparation for this quiz competition. The drama competition of Shakespearean Challenge 2009 will feature 20 minute performances of Shakespearean plays. The performances presented by the schools will hereby be judged based on knowledge and skills, with special emphasis on the visionary approaches in adopting original Shakespearean scripts. The oration and essay competitions will be open to all students representing a school to speak/write on any topic concerned with Shakespearean theatre. Students are hereby advised and encouraged to select a topic that will allow them to express an opinion on Shakespearean theatre in general or a particular subject within the sphere. The Shakespeare translation competition is a unique feature in this event which will provide students interested in script writing with an opportunity to stretch their writing skills towards a new boundary. Participants can select a part of any Shakespearean play and translate it to either Sinhala or Tamil. Best translations will be selected for Tamil medium and Sinhala medium separately.



 The qualifying rounds of the quiz, oration and drama competitions will commence on February 27 and March 1, 2009 at the Institute of Sinhala Culture (Sudharshi). The final date for submission of essays and Shakespeare translations is February 28, 2009. The closing date for schools to register with Shakespearean Challenge 2009 was notified as November 20, 2008. However, due to requests from schools outside Colombo, the Shakespeare Centre Sri Lanka has extended the closing date to January 20,, 2009 to allow schools to register after the December vacation. Schools can get more details of Shakespearean Challenge 2009 by contacting 0716 336148 (Rushan), 0776 722 152 (Nilmini), or 0773 062 081 (Ranil). You can also get more details of the Shakespeare Centre Sri Lanka by visiting our website on www.shakespearecentre.lk. Art lovers are in for a treat when Ruki Wijeratne holds her first solo art exhibition in Sri Lanka on January 18 at the Harold Peiries Art Gallery at the Lionel Wendt. 



 With over two decades of experience, Ruki is a truly multifaceted artist who has imbued and seamlessly blended different techniques and genres she has learnt in different countries. Ruki had the distinct opportunity to be mentored by the renowned Swiss artist Professor Parvel Kobel while living in Geneva in the 1980s and then by Professor Stella Rohas while residing in the Philippines in the 1990s. 



 Back permanently in Sri Lanka in 1999 with her husband after retiring from the UN, she joined the Colombo Academy of Arts under the tutelage of Professor Sarath Chandrajeewa. Ruki has held six group and solo art exhibitions in Manila and Geneva and participated in the group exhibition of the Colombo Academy of Arts held in 2006. 



 'Splendour in Colours' aptly describes the vibrant colours that are a hallmark of Ruki's paintings. The colours in her paintings do not scream "Look at me" but rather invites the viewer to gently delve into them. Saffron, Tamarind, Ochre, Rich Burgandy, Olive, Magenta, Turquoise, Sapphire Blue and a host of other hues intermingle unobtrusively to create a symphony in colour. 

 Ruki's paintings are unabashedly hopeful. There is an optimism pervading all of them. Even the painting depicting an angry sea has a soft glow in the background foreshadowing a gentler time ahead. 



 Ruki is equally deft with portraits and landscapes. Her realistic art covers a wide expanse of subjects which include flowers, seascapes, ruins, monks, dancers and beguilingly beautiful women. She draws inspiration from her wide travels and an impressive visual imagination. Her art is truly a breathe of fresh air. Butterfly Kisses and Turtle Tears, Published by Bay Owl Press, an imprint of Perera Hussein Publishing House. www.ph-book.com ISBN:978-955-1723-04-0 

 Something I discovered when embarking on this task was that having a reasonable command of the English language and being a parent and grand-parent doesn't give one all the skills and insight necessary to deal with reviewing a book meant for children. As one beyond the biblical three-score-and-ten year span, this reviewer was faced with a dilemma: Try to view this book from the perspective of a child or bring what life experience has given one as a parent and grandparent to bear on the content.



 That said, let me try to give Prashan Thalayasingham's little gem the attention it deserves, without revealing too much of the storyline and, thereby, spoiling it for those who will, ultimately, be its readers.

 The story captures the innocence and trusting nature of childhood and suggests, to this reader at least, that, that trusting and innocence have a real and enduring place in the adult world.



 The story is primarily one of a relationship between a butterfly, Leah, and a turtle, Tao, from their disparate beginnings to their growing maturity and unlikely friendship. It takes the reader through their birth throes to the impact that the 2004 tsunami has on their lives and the lives of those around them. While that cataclysmic event is captured succinctly by Thalayasingham, he, probably more cleverly, captures the more humdrum events in the lives of the protagonists in a manner that puts their importance in context without overly dramatizing them. The ability to write, as Hemingway suggested, "without using $10 dollar words," is something that can never be over-valued, particularly in a Sri Lanka where the use of superlatives and bombast has become the rule and not the unfortunate exception.

 Prashan has fleshed out his cast of characters with other creatures who provide a diversity that the plot might otherwise have missed.



 Thalayasingham's story appears to carry an underlying message that needs to be conveyed to the young, the old and the in-between; the need for unconditional love and acceptance of difference and different beings, be they the turtles of the ocean or the butterflies of the air. The skill that the author brings to this thesis is most impressive because he conveys it with subtlety and grace and without any suggestion of "preachiness."



 I would venture to suggest that this little fable is appropriate for virtually anyone, from those who need to be read to because they have not yet learned the skill to those who need to be read to by virtue of their advancing years having enfeebled them.

 I look forward to reading more of Prashan Thalayasingham's work, irrespective of the genre, because he projects a combination of basic humanity and perceptiveness that is a rare commodity in our increasingly cynical and bitter world. One little word of advice though; a good proof-reader prior to going to print might help avoid some of the little errors that would, in a lesser effort, not be noticed.

 (emil_vanderpoorten @yahoo.ca) 'Situation in Sri Lanka'

 The small screen announces

 No empathy, no feeling

 Yet another diminutive Island

 Ravaged by war...



 Across the Atlantic, in a 'safe land'

 We watch our haven bleed...

 Mother Lanka encompassed in

 that last body heat of 'all her sons'-

 For her there is no disparity...

 She had borne them all

 Given life.



 Will oceans fill the tears you shed

 As one son annihilates the other?

 When their lifeless cadaver heaped like logs

 For firewood

 Sans dignity, sans salute

 Will anyone feel your heart burns? 



 Our glory was yours

 You gave us wings to fly

 To conquer land, sea and sky

 To prize your name

 Parallel to none.

 Your sigh we heard

 When we left your shores,

 Weighty with the ocean winds.

 Our tears of adieu

 You wiped clean

 With hands of a mother

 Who seeks no reward.



 As another year dawns

 You pray for your children

 Some still in your bosom

 Others, in a memory cherished.

 Across the seas

 We pray for thee

 To see thy wholesome days again....



 Randima Attygalle

 Toronto, Canada



