News FeaturesThe prospect of single digit inflation augurs well for the economy There could be no better economic news in the New Year than that there is a prospect of a continuing deceleration in inflation. The Central Bank expects the rate of inflation to fall to single digit levels next year. 



 A low rate of inflation would reduce the hardships of the people, as well as be much more supportive of economic growth. The spectre of inflation created economic havoc and social distress last year. Therefore, the news that the deceleration in the rate of inflation in the second half of last year would continue into the New Year is indeed a good economic prospect for the country.



 The high rate of inflation last year caused severe hardships for the people as the prices of essential items rose to unprecedented heights causing severe difficulties to the common man. The price of rice, flour, bread, sugar, dhal, vegetables, coconut oil, gas, bus fares, electricity, diesel and petrol increased sharply to make it difficult for most people to make ends meet. As much as the livelihoods of the poor were seriously affected, the high rate of inflation raised costs of production of manufactured goods for the export market. Consequently, the export growth of manufactures fared badly especially in the second half of the year.



 In 2008 the rate of inflation peaked to 28.2% in June 2008 and fell thereafter to 14.4% in December 2008. As the Central Bank has noted there has been a deceleration in the rate of inflation in the second half of the year. In December 2008 the rate of inflation dropped to the lowest for the last 18 months. After reaching a peak inflation rate of nearly 30%, it has decelerated for the sixth month in succession to 14%. This rate of inflation is the lowest for the past 18 months since July 2007. The annualised average inflation rate for the past twelve months also decelerated for the second consecutive month to 22.6% in December, 2008. 



 The inflation rate is expected to drop further in the period ahead, reaching a single digit level by early 2009. Much of this expectation is dependent on international prices of essential imports, oil, fertiliser, food and other food imports. The continuation of oil prices at below US$ 50 per barrel is a sine qua non for achieving a modest rate of inflation. Domestic inflationary pressures would continue as government expenditure continues to outpace government revenue. The Central Bank's tight monetary measures cannot be expected to reign in these pressures fully.



 The Central Bank expects prices to decline significantly this year. It says we can expect a "continued decline in inflation to acceptable levels." The Bank explains that "the significant decline in inflation is attributable to the pass-through of the rapidly declining international commodity prices, the stringent demand management policies adopted by the Central Bank and improvements in domestic supply conditions." These factors are expected to continue into this year, though the domestic supply situation is too early to predict. The Central Bank bases this expectation on several factors. "The sharp deceleration in the monetary aggregates, together with recent favourable developments in relation to international commodity prices is expected to bring down inflation at a rate faster than previously expected." The Central Bank comments that "further deceleration in inflation would help investors as well as consumers in their effective decision making process, improving the growth outlook for the economy." 



 There is a popular misconception that the deceleration in the rate of inflation means that prices would be falling. This is not so. Prices of some items may fall, yet the general price level is increasing, though at a lower rate in comparison with the previous year. Therefore even if we achieve a single digit inflation of 9%, what this means is that prices are rising at 9% in comparison with that of the previous comparable period. The deceleration in inflation does not mean that prices are decreasing. In any event it is not only the lowering of the rate of inflation in the country that matters. It is important to ensure that the rate of increase in prices in Sri Lanka is around the same as those of other countries. One of the serious effects of high inflation in the country is that if the exchange rate is kept relatively stable, high domestic inflation makes imports relatively cheaper, while the country's exports become expensive in world markets. This happened last year with respect to export competitiveness. The high domestic prices resulted in increased costs of production of manufactured goods, much more than were the case in other countries, and therefore raised the country's manufactured export prices above those of competing countries. This also occurred at a time when demand for goods was declining particularly in the US and European markets. Consequently, inflation affects the country's exports of manufactured goods. The rate of growth of such commodities as apparel exports, leather and rubber goods declined.

 Therefore, the important thing is for the country to ensure that the rate of inflation in the country is comparable to those countries that compete with our products in international markets. Given the recessionary conditions in the world, keeping prices down assumes a special significance. 



 Therefore, our eyes should be focussed not on whether the rate of inflation is falling in the country, but also whether the rate of inflation in Sri Lanka is comparable with those of other countries. The best scenario would be for the rate of inflation to be lower than countries such as India, Bangladesh, Vietnam, Thailand and China. This is of course a difficult objective given the country's fiscal situation that generates excessive inflationary pressures.



 The deceleration in prices is certainly most welcome. It is to be hoped that the favourable international trend in import prices would continue and that there would be a degree of relief on inflationary pressures through improvements in the fiscal situation. It is most important that inflation is contained at levels of other countries in order to ensure competitiveness of our exports.



