FeaturesVil Uyana in Sigiriya portrays the essence of the area and the originality of our culture 

 We've heard so much about Vil Uyana in Sigiriya for so long but for various reasons best known to the stars above we could not make a trip there until recently. We have heard that the place is beautiful with fantastic food and naturally we were very eager to try it all out. 



 When we arrived at the place, the first hint that this was different were the two stone lions – one was in the traditional pose of seated on all fours, but with the head up, but the other was lying with its head down in a contended manner. The other main difference was that the first reception was more of a porch with a huge bell-like gong, which must purely be ornamental as there was a polite young man to meet us at the steps and combines as the bellboy and valet. First thing first – he brought a completely environmental friendly an electric buggy, loaded the luggage, then invited us aboard and took us to the real reception where we were met by the manageress who greeted us with a choice of welcome drinks of which the amberalla drink was outstanding. 



 Here comes the second difference – I am greeted with more than a polite hello; she actually spends some time with me chatting, taking me around the main areas of the hotel and putting me at total ease. From this point on, I am not in some impersonal hotel, but the guest of a very good friend. Her easy style does not cross the boarders into familiarity and makes me very comfortable without intruding. In a hotel that has strived so hard to capture the essence of the area, the originality of the culture and the true Sri Lankan hospitality they couldn't have done better. 



 This same quality was maintained by all the staff members. The service factor from the service personnel went beyond any industrial training – indeed all were professionals, but none had lost their natural hospitality inclination that sets Sri Lankan hospitality apart from other countries. Singapore with all its modern amenities and fantastic tourist attractions is no match to the Sri Lankan people to whom good hospitality comes naturally. It was thus heartening to note Vil Uyana has managed to preserve this wonderful quality in its staff without sterilizing it with professionalism. 



 The beauty of the place has not been exaggerated. It is one of the most beautiful, original, romantic and tranquil places ever!!! The rooms are beautiful and very private chalets – some with its own pools. Every detail is perfect. The ambience is further maintained as one does not have to go to the dining area, but can get the food down to the chalet, which was the perfect idea for us for breakfast and lunch. Then there is a perfect blend into the natural environment and our morning view from our little balcony was a tree full of peacocks, and one even graced us with his presence by flying into our garden space to peck around. 

 Whenever you needed to get around, the electric buggy comes to pick you, which was another very novel experience. One place I went to was the spa. This was another pure delight. The masseur was well trained – apparently a trainer comes every three months from England to update the masseurs – and was very polite. It was indeed one of the best massages ever that I have received in Sri Lanka. 



 The pride of Vil Uyana however is their wine cellar. Their collection is extensive and the careful selection by their own wine connoisseur certainly takes you to the best wineries in the world. There is quite a selection even for the novice wine drinker who does not enjoy the hard wines with its rustic flavours. 



 It was the chef however who dropped the ball. Despite the full house the choice was very limited and the food lacked the punch. For foodies like us, this was very, very disappointing and left a gaping hole in our experience. The one good thing about lunch was the good variety of Sri Lankan curries, but even this most unfortunately lacked the wow factor. This is a very sad, sad thing to write about Vil Uyana for everything else is just perfect and if not for the food, can be easily recommended to anyone without fear. The Food & Beverage Team at Jetwing St Andrew's recently launched an exclusive "Executive Lunch" targeting the busy executives in Nuwara Eliya and surrounding areas. The menu caters to executives of banks, commercial companies, offices and other institutions.



 The menu contains a variety of main courses and desserts that one could choose from. All this is offered at an unbeatable rate of Rs. 650/- nett per person. From some of the more popular dishes such as chilli chicken served with steamed rice and vegetable chopsey and condiments, Indonesian nasigorang to more varied dishes such as spaghetti tossed with sea food and cream sauce, grill fish served on a green salad with soft boiled egg there is a choice offered to each guest who patronises. Choices of desserts are also endless with dark chocolate mousse, combination of ice cream, banana fritters served with ice cream and honey sauce and much more.



 The "Executive Lunch" menu will be served at the "Old Course Restaurant" from Monday to Friday from 12 noon to 2 p.m.

 Jetwing St. Andrew's is part of the Jetwing family of hotels. The collection of hotels that Jetwing offer includes eleven magnificent properties situated in pristine locations around Sri Lanka. They are, in Negombo: Jetwing Ayurveda Pavilions, Jetwing Beach, Jetwing Blue Oceanic and Jetwing Seashells; in Beruwela: Jetwing Tropical Villas; in Galle: Jetwing Lighthouse and Jetwing Kurulubedda; in Kandy: Jetwing Hunas Falls; in Nuwara Eliya: Jetwing Warwick Gardens and in Sigiriya: Jetwing Vil Uyana.



