News FeaturesTurn of events in the world The dawn of a new year brings with it hopes and expectations that the year will present better opportunities for fortune and success than the previous. Yet, according to some, everything is written in the stars, and beyond human manipulation. Following are some of the most sought after predictions for the world, made on the current political, social, economic and environmental trends of the world. 



 Needless to say, at the forefront of all predictions is President-elect Barack Obama, whose impending tenure as the US President is closely observed by the entire world. 



 The transfer of power to President Barack Obama and Vice President Joe Biden will not occur without incident, although the discontented and bigoted prove impotent at best in their displays of violence and hatred. The swearing in takes place on Retrograde Mercury! 



 The Saturn-Uranus opposition will continue to create unrest in various parts of the world. People will respond in extraordinary ways, many rebellious, with the reasons lost in the acts. This pattern finally separates in March and returns again in September, finally separating in October. 



 Expect a true rainbow coalition to run the United States of America under the Obama administration. The dream of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., is coming true. Obama is in for two terms!



 President Barack Obama will do an excellent job of governing the people of the United States of America and he will be warmly welcomed by the leaders of many nations all around the world. President Obama's cabinet is going to shine and be the talk of the planet! Hillary Clinton will be an impressive and effective Secretary of State. 

 Michelle Obama is going to surprise just about everyone, including herself!



 Up and down go the stock markets. The rollercoaster ride continues early in 2009. 

 A strike by the actors will prove a disaster not to be resolved before April. They should strive to reach a reasonable settlement without striking. 



 The economy will be up and down and improve greatly by the end of this year. I see no doom and gloom in this regard. 

 Expect a severe winter in the northern hemisphere. There will be cruise liner crises in the tropics and in the land of ice. 

 There will be considerable changes in the laws that pertain to immigration, corporations and business practices in general. There will be restructuring from the ground up and the top back down to the very foundation of rules and regulations. 

 Severe earthquakes are expected in the mountainous regions all around the world.



 Climate change or global warming continues to be a cause of concern all around the world. 

 Further tribulation in African nations, genocide and disease claim many lives. 

 During the next few years, there will be unity established among the nations in southern Africa, which leads to greater humanitarian efforts between the nations and a greater expression of true humanity from one to the other.

 Caroline Kennedy becomes the most likely new Senator from New York. 



 Alternative fuel sources come to the forefront with great progress in these areas. 

 Oceanic upheavals could be caused by underwater volcanic eruptions with the threat of extensive damage from tsunamis, especially in the northern hemisphere and around the ring of fire.



 New islands rise up out of the sea in fairly large numbers.

 China will be forced to deal with its air pollution issues and the dire respiratory health issues of its citizens in highly populated areas where industry flourishes. 



 Destructive wildfires are still an issue in Australia and in southern California, as a result of severe drought, and in some instances, criminal acts of arson.

 Hurricanes and typhoons are fierce and destructive in the Atlantic and the Pacific Oceans, claiming lives and destroying valuable property. 



 An increased number of dust storms create havoc in the deserts of all nations.

 Terrorist acts continue in India and Pakistan as well as in the Middle East.

 Astronomical wonders continue to be discovered in our vast universe. 

 The Russians keep trying to expand their reach, especially anywhere near the US.

 An airborne epidemic threatens large numbers.



 A new Russian leader, youthful and idealistic, rises to prominence for the good of the people, after the kiln of Gorbechev. He will foster democratic ideals and the protection of human rights.

 Prime Minister Vladimir Putin is surrounded by danger, either in terms of loss of power or decline of health. 

 Assassination dangers appear in desert lands.



 Americans continue to lose lives fighting wars in faraway foreign lands. 

 April stands out as a time of remarkable insights or discoveries.

 Visitors from other worlds become highly visible in Europe, South America and South-western and North America. Unidentified flying objects become almost completely recognisable and identifiable. 



 Secret UFO/ET documents are released for review by the citizens of the United States of America. Disclosure at long last! Strange signals arrive from other planets where there is human-like life. 

 Monumental peace deals are reached in the summer months, perhaps July or August.

 Communication advancements are inter-galactic. 



 The highly admired and revered leave this earth and join their loved ones beyond the veil.

 October marks important events with worldwide significance that could well benefit humanity.

 This is a year of dramatic and monumental changes that will include great upheaval. 



 Terrorist dangers prevail at the close of the year. This year marks continued power struggles in Asian nations. 

 A nuclear reactor accident involves meltdown with disastrous results.

 There is a chemical disaster or chemical warfare that involves the innocent and causes global outrage! Humankind must assume responsibility for all planetary citizens.



 Disease reaches epidemic proportions in many African nations. There is a pandemic in Asia this year. Natural disasters (earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods) create disease and starvation, with great loss of life and property.

 The year will end on a peaceful note as many problems begin to be resolved.



