BusinessHopes and dreams of children in the North 

 Sri Lanka's military appears to be edging close to wining a 25 year long war with LTTE terrorists. LTTE is clearly in a weak position and the terrorists have lost eastern territory while the military is now gaining control in the north as well. With the war coming closer to a military solution, there is much talk about a political solution that can be addressed to minorities grievances, and the economic development of the economically marginalized civilians in the northern province. The civilians in this country have borne the brunt of the war especially the civilians in the north and east. 



 Dr.Muthukrishna Sarvananthan, Development Economist by profession and the Principal Researcher of the Point Pedro Institute of Development, who is currently a Fulbright Visiting Research Scholar at the Elliott School of International Affairs, George Washington University in Washington, D.C. speaking about the economic situation of the people caught in the middle of the war at a recent interview said, "the macro economic level in the country has so far been good. Government has some sort of luck if I may say so. Inspite of a weak economy and a deteriorating economy, it is nevertheless stable. With the resumption of war in 2005, defense expenditure has increased more than public expenditure, but more than the impact of the war, economy in Sri Lanka has been hit by a bad or wrong policies of the government, due to inward looking kind of policies which is hurting the economy very much. Beside that, the past one year also has seen heightened world oil prices and food prices. Sri Lanka's external sector balance of payment is fast deteriorating. Despite these conditions, the growth has been quite good given the circumstances with high intensity war."



 Sarvananthan said the Global Financial crisis has also affected Sri Lanka. "We had inflation around 20% for sometime, only it has become 16% for the last four months, partly because of gap between supply and demand sides". 

 He further added that due to the war, about 100,000 in the north had lost their livelihoods. He says economy has not rebounded as expected in the Eastern Province. The North is the worst affected where ordinary civilians are concerned. In the conflict region food prices are high compared to other regions in the country. 



 Sarvananthan who always advocated that economic development is imperative for peace in Sri Lanka, discusses the situation of the children of war, in his book titled, 'Children of War : Aspirations and Opportunities' . In the current context it adds value to economic development in the war affected region. His study attempts to identify economic/employment opportunities available for children (14-18 years old) in the war-torn Northern Province of Sri Lanka. It also attempts to identify resources available locally that could be used for productive purposes, which in turn could generate new employment. This was awarded the first prize under the Research Award Scheme of the Sri Lanka Economic Association in September 2008. 



 Two phases

 This study has two phases: The first was to identify current investments, presently available vocational training programmes, and available resources in each of the five districts of the Northern Province. The second was to undertake field surveys on demand for employment (supply of labour) and supply of employment (demand for labour), in order to identify the gaps between the demand and supply sides of the labour market. The fieldwork for this study was undertaken during later half of 2004 and this book is an abridged version of the study.



 Limited private investment

 The study has revealed that there is very little private investment particularly in manufacturing activities in the North. Most of the investments are from foreign donor agencies particularly in infrastructure. There is plenty of vocational training taking place in Jaffna and Vavuniya districts, but very little in Kilinochchi, Mannar, and Mullaitivu districts. Generally, problems associated with vocational training are due to the poor quality of such training programmes, and the geographical spread of these training programmes within each district, which is very limited. The study has also revealed the meagre natural, mineral, and human resources available locally in each district. Whatever little is available, are low value primary resources such as coconut, palmyrah, clay, salt, etc.



 In phase two of the study, random sample surveys were carried out in all the five districts. On the demand side around 2,100 children in the age group of 14-18 years were interviewed, and on the supply side around 1,200 businesses were interviewed throughout the Northern Province. Both females and males, and all Divisional Secretariat (DS) areas in each district were covered by the demand side survey. On the supply side survey both formal and informal businesses, hazardous and non-hazardous employment, and businesses in all DS areas were covered. However, public sector was consciously left out of the supply side survey. 



 Demand 

 On the demand side, the focus group population overwhelmingly desired to pursue further or higher education, which is a positive attitude. However, on the choice of subjects for further or higher education, the vast majority opted for arts and the humanities and commerce subjects, which was very disappointing. Very small proportions of children planned to take up physical or biological sciences, which does not augur well for the future knowledge based economy of the Northern Province.



 On employment, majority of respondents wanted to seek public sector employment, which was again very disappointing, because very few public sector jobs will be available in the future due to the parlous state of the public finances in the country, the writer points out. On the category of jobs sought, most preferred professional/technical, administrative, or managerial jobs, which reflects the changing nature of the occupational structure in the North. On vocational studies, the vast majority desired computer studies, accounting, and electrical/electronic/telecommunication. However, the writer says, these desires have to match with employment opportunities available in the labour market. "There is certainly a significant gap between the desires of children and corresponding job availability", he notes. 



 According to the study, most respondents, particularly female children, preferred in-house and home town jobs, which is not surprising. However, this preference has negative implications for certain types of jobs in the labour market that requires mobility of labour. This again reflects the changing nature of the occupational structure in the North. However, a considerable number was prepared for both in-house and outdoor as well as home town and out of home town jobs. 



 Supply

 On the supply side of the survey, most of the interviewees were in the services sector reflecting the predominance of that sector in the regional economy of the Northern Province. As a corollary, the majority of employees were sales and services workers. Further, most of the present employees were in the age group of 19-29 years. There was very little enthusiasm to expand businesses in all the five districts. This pessimism was again reflected in the expected number of new employees. In 2005 there was some hope for new employment opportunities, but not so in 2006 and 2007. These results demonstrate the economic and political uncertainty pervading the Northern Province, the author observes. 



 The bulk of the new employees is sought in the 19-29 years old group, which is the same as the present composition. Among the new employees sought, the majority are sales & services workers- again reflecting the rapid liquidity and mobile nature of businesses in the pause-in-conflict politico economic environment in the Northern Province. Disappointingly, vast majority of new employment opportunities expected are for males. On the availability of apprenticeships/on-the-job trainings to children in the age group of 14-18 years, vast majority is expected in the professional/technical category, that too in 2005. There are very few apprenticeships expected in 2006 and 2007. Here again it is confirmed that businesses in the North are not yet matured to look beyond the immediate future. However, both on account of expected new employment and apprenticeship opportunities, businesses in Kilinochchi and Mullaitivu districts were the ones expected to offer most numbers.



 Lacking

 English language and computer applications are the skills lacking among overwhelming majority of present employees. Ironically, only few employers complained about lack of communication/public relations, presentation or technical skills. There is not much interest to start new business by existing businesses in all five districts. But, businesses in Kilinochchi and Mullaitivu districts are more willing to start up new business than businesses in other districts. Moreover, larger numbers of businesses in Kilinochchi and Mullaitivu districts (than the other three districts) were optimistic about increasing the number of employees, by upgrading technology and enhancing value addition.



 Although more female children than male children desire to pursue further or higher education, and contemplate following biological science or commerce subjects, currently few women are employed in professional/technical, administrative or managerial positions. Furthermore, even out of the expected new jobs, employers demand far less women in the above categories. Women are in greater demand only for clerical and elementary categories of jobs. Out of the expected apprenticeships/ on-the-job training, again women have much opportunities than their male counterparts. Hence, there is pervasive gender discrimination in the labour market despite greater proportion of Tamil women (than Tamil men) entering universities, including in medicine and biological science courses.



 Service oriented 

 Sarvananthan says , the Northern economy is fast becoming service-oriented, moving away from the traditional dominance of farming and fisheries, though not adequately reflected in statistical data because of overwhelming informality of the services sector. However, he says such services reflected the need of the economy to be knowledge-based, in order to be robust and sustainable. 



 Recommendations

 He suggests the following recommendations based on his study.

 1. Ensure that skills training programmes undertaken/funded by government/semi-govt institutions, non-governmental organisations, or donor agencies (INGOs, bilateral & multilateral) in each district are widely spread to the peripheries as well.

 2. Introduce vocational courses that are internationally recognised such as the City & Guilds of the United Kingdom that have good demand in the labour markets of West Asian and South East Asian countries.

 3. Tie up vocational training with foreign employment opportunities. That is, an integrated package involving vocational training followed by placements abroad, can be devised in order to be attractive to students. 

 4. Undertake awareness and counselling programmes for primary and secondary school children and their parents, about the futility of following arts & humanities and commerce subjects at the secondary or post-secondary levels of education.

 5. Promote physical science subjects among school children, and their parents, as the most lucrative in the labour market locally, nationally, and internationally.

 6. Undertake awareness raising and public education programmes about the futility of expecting public sector employment in the future. It has to be made clear that new recruits to the public sector have to pay income tax as well as contribute to their pension, two critical enticements of youth to the public sector. 

 7. The government should introduce productivity and output based payment structure to public sector employees, because public sector employment has become synonymous with freedom to idle accompanied with guaranteed monthly salary and pension . One way of dissuading the youth from seeking public sector jobs would be to introduce a system whereby new recruits to the public sector are made permanent only after 10 years of highly satisfactory service. That is, first ten years of service in the public sector should be based on two-year renewable contracts. After every two years, contracts could be renewed depending on the output and productivity of employees. Then, after 10 years, if the employees demonstrate high productivity and output they could be made permanent 

 8. There is also an urgent need to sensitise the young about the futility of desk-based white-collar jobs and high demand for skilled personnel nationally and internationally.

 9. There is an urgent need to wean the youths from basic computing and accounting studies, and make them realise the need to diversify their portfolio of choices of vocational courses.

 10. There is an urgent need to make the present northern economy move from largely service-oriented to more manufacturing-oriented and knowledge-based economy. 

 11. There is a critical need to sensitise the employers in the North about the competence, adaptability, and upward mobility of women employees and encourage them to hire more women into their businesses. Thus, gender sensitising the business community is a long felt need in the North. 

 12. It is important to undertake awareness programmes among employers about the ever-rising numbers of highly qualified women in society, and their desire to seek non-traditional and demanding jobs.

 13. A campaign should be instigated to make businesses realise the rewards of apprentices, trainees, and interns for their establishments. It is also important to inculcate a sense of social responsibility among the business community to provide greater apprenticeships and on-the-job training to local children and youths.

 14. It is important to inculcate knowledge among the business community about new technologies and further value additions that could generate additional employment thereby propelling the local economy.



