News

 The Upcountry People's Front (UPF) and the Ceylon Workers' Congress (CWC) have agreed to forget their differences and to work towards ensuring the United People's Freedom Alliance's victory in the forthcoming provincial council elections, Transport Minister Dullas Alahapperuma told The Nation yesterday. 



 The Minister said that following his intervention, the two parties have agreed to prevent any further clashes between their supporters in the area and to work in harmony to ensure UPFA victory.



 Supporters of the two parties got involved in a serious clash at Thalawakelle last week following the handing over of nominations for the forthcoming provincial council elections in the Central Province. The UPF accused CWC Leader Arumugam Thondaman of initiating the clash by removing a UPF flag at Thalawakelle Town and accused the Police of not taking any action to stop the Minister and his supporters. The CWC sources denied these claims and blamed the UPF for initiating the clash.



 Minister Alahapperuma said that the two parties have assured that there will not be any further clashes.

 Meanwhile, there were reports that the UPF had threatened to withdraw from the election, if the government did not intervene to stop any further election violence by the CWC supporters. 



 The party's General Secretary S. Vijey Kumar told The Nation yesterday that he hoped that the CWC supporters will not engage in election violence against their party following the intervention of some government ministers.

 "We came to know that Ministers Alahapperuma and Pavithra Vanniarachchi had discussions with the CWC leaders and since then the situation has improved," he said. However, he denied reports saying that the party was planning to withdraw from the government coalition. 



 "We said that we would withdraw only from the election, if the authorities did not take action to prevent such incidents," Vijey Kumar added. 



 He also said that UPF Leader Minister P. Chandrasekaran has gone abroad and he was expected to return next week. "Once the Minster returns we will discuss our plans for the election campaign", he said.

 The President of People's Action for Free and Fair Election (PAFFREL) Kingsley Rodrigo said that his organisation was aware of the Thalawakelle incident and is now planning to discuss with main political parties to prevent any further incidents from taking place.



