SportsWorld Cup at stake unless Asian giants sort out differences India and Pakistan will have to soon patch up their differences unless they want the 2011 World Cup to be moved away from the subcontinent. The four top Asian Test-playing nations, India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh were granted the opportunity of hosting the 2011 World Cup by the International Cricket Council (ICC), but the way things have taken place between the two Asian giants India and Pakistan, it won't be long before the ICC starts to reconsider whether holding the next World Cup in the subcontinent is going to be a wise move. Following the Mumbai terror attacks, India called off its scheduled cricket tour to Pakistan in January and in retaliation to that decision, Pakistan on Friday decided to pull out of the four-nation Punjab Gold Cup hockey tournament to be held in Chandigarh from January 31.



 It was purely a tit-for-tat response from Pakistan which cited 'security risk for the players' as the reason for the cancellation.

 Pakistan's sports minister Jillani was quoted by agencies stating: "There is a security risk in sending our players to India at this stage because of the mood in India. So we have not given permission to the PHF for the tour."



 A decision of this nature was expected after India scrapped its cricket team's tour across the border in the wake of the Mumbai terror attacks. Such steps are only going to further strain the sporting ties between the two countries. 



 Agencies reported that there was popular sentiment among citizens and former players in Pakistan that since the Indian government refused to send their cricket team, Pakistani teams should also scrap their India tours in a retaliatory move. 



 This sort of animosity amidst mounting tension between the two Asian nations is certainly not a good sign if Asia wants to host the 2011 World Cup cricket tournament. When it was last held in the subcontinent in 1996 the only problem the ICC was confronted with was the ethnic war in Sri Lanka between the Sri Lanka forces and the Tamil Tigers. On that occasion Australia and West Indies forfeited their World Cup matches citing security reasons and not honouring their matches to be played in Colombo. But overall it did not affect the tournament as it continued without a hitch and Sri Lanka went on to win their first World Cup.



 With the Sri Lankan forces having the upperhand in the on-going ethnic war at the moment and the chances that it may be put to an end by the year end, it is a pity to see that a new threat has arisen in the form of strained relations between India and Pakistan that may cost Asia the chance of hosting the cricket World Cup.



 The ICC is closely monitoring the progress of both countries and will take a final decision whether it is necessary to move it to a different location depending on the situation at hand. Australia and New Zealand which lost the chance to host the 2011 World Cup are pressing hard to take it away from Asia.



 Not only must relationship between India and Pakistan improve, but also the situation in the respective countries, especially in Pakistan must be conducive to play cricket in an environment free of any terrorist threats.



 Security concerns in Pakistan cost them tours to their country by Australia, New Zealand, West Indies and India and hosting of the ICC Champions trophy last year. In matters of this nature the cricket boards of the countries concerned are not the ones who decide on the fate of the World Cup but their respective governments. It is a matter for the governments of the host countries to resolve and ensure that international teams can come to the subcontinent and play cricket without any threats of danger to the lives of the players and officials. If that cannot be guaranteed and the air cleared for a peaceful World Cup, the chances are that Asia will lose a golden opportunity of hosting the biggest cricket tournament in the world.



