Interviews"Our council has been named the non-corrupt provincial council" Says UNP candidate SB Dissanayake contesting a provincial election itself shows his defeat adding that coming down in political hierarchy indicates a downfall in a career We don't need to do anything corrupt. We don't need to do any wrong thing to win this, because of everything the President has done for the past three years, for the people of the north and east. Now he is releasing all the places that the LTTE has been in control. Kilinochchi has been liberated. That means he has done that part correctly 

 Many have predicted that year 2009 is going to be an election year. The first in many to come are the Central and North Western Provincial Council elections, to be held on February 14. The Nation this week spoke to United People's Freedom Alliance (UPFA) chief ministerial candidate for the Central Province, incumbent Chief Minister Sarath Ekanayake, to learn of his plans for the province. Ekanayake, thrice Chief Minister, told The Nation about the work he has already done for the province and what he expects to do, if he retains the post for the fourth time. 

 Following are excerpts of the interview: 



 Q: What is the main focus in your election campaign for the Central Provincial Council?

 A: It will be a just and free election. That is our intention. We have been doing this for some years; general and provincial council elections in 2004, the presidential election in 2005 and again, local government elections in 2006. All these elections in the Central Province, especially in the Kandy District, we managed to have just and free. So, this time too we are trying to maintain that. Hopefully the other parties will join in with us hand in hand to fulfil this task.



 Q: What are the main problems encountered by the people in the Central Province?

 A: In the Central Province there are so many difficult areas in terms of the geographical location. Because of the mountainous terrain the roads are not up to standards. I don't think any body had a proper plan to overcome this issue before. So, in 2004 when I became the Chief Minister, I started this new campaign. To maintain this, we have to have a vision. So, I gave them a slogan, Saubhagyawath Medarata Abhimanaya. And I introduced a song for this province. These things may not directly affect the people. But, we wanted to give a boost to the people's morale and to remind them that people in this province have a unique identity. So, I started with that and gave them a five-year plan and a 10-year plan. Ultimately the target is to make the province the best in the country, by 2015. 



 Q: The way it is being located, Kandy is a city that cannot be easily expanded. Hence, it is difficult to develop the city according to modern day needs. What is your solution for this problem?

 A: As you said correctly, the Kandy city itself cannot be expanded. But, we have taken other steps to do that. First of all, we have started a Greater Kandy Development Programme. This is a committee appointed by the Cabinet. Two steps have already been taken. We are setting up a new city in Kundasale. In the meantime, while this is being done, we have started taking out some government offices from Kandy city. I have started this, by first taking out the provincial council Chief Minister's offices to Kundasale. With that we are reducing the number of people coming to the city. We are also planning to shift some other offices to Kundasale. Then, the Prison will go to Pallekele. It is now in the heart of the Kandy city. 



 Q: What are plans for the province, if you win again?

 A: As I have explained before, this is not a sudden plan. We have been doing this for sometime. We are planning to take forward what we have already started. For example, let's take education. I have started a new education project. I don't think any other province has such a programme for education. We call it the Nanoda Project. In that project there is a long-term process. The schools in the Nuwara Eliya District are physically developed. But in the mean time, we want to improve the number of university entrants from these schools. We have started a new school for aesthetic subjects, with lodging facilities. This school is only for aesthetic studies and it comes under my Nanoda Project. We are collaborating with other ministries too. As I said before, we have a target to be the best in the country. 



 Q: Your main opponent S.B. Dissanayake is a former Parliamentarian and a national level politician. Do you consider him to be a formidable challenge?

 A: The fact that he is contesting a provincial election itself shows his defeat. Coming down in political hierarchy indicates a downfall in the career. But I'm coming from down to the up. I started my political career in 1999 by contesting for the provincial council for the first time from the Malate District and then I became the Chief Minister. The second time, I contested from the Kandy District. And I won and became the Chief Minister. I'm actually an undefeated candidate. I think this time too we are going to defeat them. 



 Q: The Upcountry People's Front (UPF) is in conflict with the Ceylon Workers' Congress (CWC). They are both pledged supporters of the UPFA. What is the effect of this on the UPFA election hopes?

 A: Those parties have been in conflict for a long time, not just now. They both represent the Tamil community in the estate sector. They have their different party members. Between party members these clashes may happen. But that does not mean it will affect the UPFA. They are coming under UPFA in this election. So, these things occur between the supporters and not on the party level. It will not affect the UPFA because both parties are earning votes for the UPFA. 



 Q: Violence and corruption are major issues in PC elections. As the incumbent Chief Minister, what are the special measures you have taken to prevent these from taking place?

 A: Our council has been named the non-corrupt provincial council in the country. It is so named by the President. So, we have done something here. What we do is, especially during elections, give advice to my party members and all the candidates. We tell them that we are in a winning position. We don't need to do anything corrupt. We don't need to do any wrong thing to win this, because of everything the President has done for the last three years, for the people of the north and east. Now he is releasing all the places that the LTTE has been in control. Kilinochchi has been liberated. That means he has done that part correctly. When it comes to development, he has initiated some major development projects in the country. One of the major problems we are having is unemployment, so to solve that problems he has given so many opportunities for the graduates. At the same time, he has not forgotten the villages. He has a special project called Gama Neguma Jathika Saviya. Earlier, there were so many villages that have not been developed. They were totally neglected. Sometimes politicians never go to these villages because of the limited vote capacity. Even these villages are now being developed by the President's projects. So, at the same time, the provincial council is maintaining the Gemi Aruna project. Likewise, we are going in line with the central government. We don't have any clashes. So, we are in a winning position. 



 Q: The tea estate workers are faced by many problems at present, especially given the prevalent global market trends. Given this scenario, how do you attract their votes?

 A: Over the last few months, the tea prices have gone down. It does not mean it has gone down to earth. It has not come down to the price it was maintaining earlier. Sometimes they sold tea for Rs. 15-20 per kilo. But, now it is over Rs. 25. It has not gone down badly. Only thing is it has come down from the high price they were enjoying, for the past few years. 

 Now we are taking measures to give them subsidies and everything to overcome this problem. I don't think it will affect us that much. 



 Q: Encroachment into nature reserves by vegetable farmers is an alarming problem in the Central Province, especially with the allegation that it is sanctioned by the authorities. What have you done to counter this problem?

 A: Not only in nature reserves, this problem is everywhere in the area. People have this trend of going into government buildings and lands. In the Central Province we have 1,470 schools. None these schools have proper deeds for their schools. So, when someone encroached nobody could do anything about it. The poor principals could not even go to courts. I started a programme for this. We surveyed all the schools, planned and gave a deed to the school principals. We have done this with about 600 schools.



 At the same time, in the city, we have this problem. We have taken the necessary steps to stop this. But the people always have this idea of going into government land and getting it to themselves. 

 I must say and assure that as a politician, I never encourage them. That is the main part. We are completely against encroachment, whether they are our party people or not. We don't let them do it with our consent. Earlier it was not like that. Earlier it was done with the blessing of the politicians. 



 Q: There is a recent allegation that you and several other politicians are ordering the traders in Dambulla to pay Rs. 200,000 each to fund your election campaign. What is your response?

 A: I too have heard about this. I'm contesting from the Kandy District and this is something that has happened in the Matale District. I don't think a political involvement is there. Some people may be doing this, when they are with the supporters. I'm not in a position to do anything against it, but I will do whatever necessary to look into it. As the chief ministerial candidate I have already informed the relevant authorities to look into it.



