Business"Please erase your image of electric cars being like golf carts," a spokesman for Japan's fourth-biggest automaker said before taking a zero-emission vehicle out for a spin.

 As mass-produced electric cars come closer to reality, their makers are trying to polish the image of what experts say could be a hard sell in the current recession.

 "It's fast, powerful and smooth," Mitsubishi Motors Corp. spokesman Kai Inada said of the iMiEV electric car, which is due to be launched this year.



 Zero-emission vehicles may not be a novel concept for long. Japanese carmakers are racing to develop electric cars, and US and European manufacturers have also announced plans to roll them out within a few years.



 The dream of an electric car, which has been around since the time of Thomas Edison, has so far failed to break into the mainstream because of limited battery life that makes such vehicles impractical for most purposes.

 But after technological breakthroughs in the development of long-lasting lithium-ion batteries, soon it may not just be Hollywood stars who are zipping around in zero-emission automobiles.



 Mitsubishi's electric car now runs 160 kilometres (100 miles) on one charge, which takes 14 hours when using a conventional 100 volt outlet on the wall, or 30 minutes to charge 80 percent of the battery using a special quick charger.

 With the help of government subsidies, Mitsubishi Motors aims to sell its iMiEV at a price of less than three million yen (30,000 dollars) as early as 2010.



 "The price and the short mileage per charge are the two biggest challenges we must address," admitted Kazuhiro Yamana, head of Mitsubishi's public relations department.

 "But we expect that technological breakthroughs in lithium-ion batteries will continue, realising longer distances -- for example triple the current distance in 10 years," he said.



 Nissan Motor Co. aims to start selling an electric car in the United States and Japan in 2010 and the rest of the world in 2012.

 Other Japanese automakers have been working to create fuel cell cars, which produce electricity through a chemical reaction between hydrogen and oxygen, with water the only by-product.



 Fuel cell cars have a number of advantages over electric cars, said Honda Motor Co. engineer Michio Shinohara.

 "Most users are not satisfied with the mileage" of electric cars, he said. Honda's latest fuel cell car, the FCX Clarity, has a cruising distance of 620 kilometres per charge, and takes just three or four minutes to recharge.

 Honda began selling the latest FCX Clarity in the United States in July, with the first five cars to be delivered to celebrities including film producer Ron Yerxa and actress Jamie Lee Curtis.



 Toyota Motor Corp., which has already won strong interest in its petrol-electric hybrids, is developing a range of fuel cell, electric and other clean cars that run on biofuel or clean diesel.

 Toyota says its fuel cell car FCHV-adv can travel 830 kilometres on a full tank of hydrogen, but it may not see mass production until 2016.



 High cost

 Fuel cell vehicles belch out none of the greenhouse gases blamed for global warming, but their high cost and a lack of hydrogen refueling stations pose obstacles to mainstream use.

 "You need to have hydrogen stations," said Toyota engineer Kazuyoshi Tasaka. "But it requires a government policy to build up such an infrastructure."



 So far, the government-backed Japan Hydrogen & Fuel Cell Demonstration Project has constructed 12 hydrogen stations nationwide, with plans to build more stations for commercial use from 2015.

 But experts question how much interest there will be for electric cars while the economy is in the doldrums.



 "There is virtually no market for them given the current economic situation," said Koji Endo, auto analyst at Credit Suisse.

 "People don't even want to buy a conventional car. Why would they buy a more expensive one? Furthermore, with gasoline prices falling sharply, an incentive for cutting fuel costs has disappeared," Endo said.

 Longer term, green cars may be necessary lineups for carmakers because of regulations aimed at curbing greenhouse gas emissions, Endo said.



 "Green cars would be more sellable if the world economy recovers, which would lead to a surge in gasoline prices and generous government subsidies to purchase of green cars."

 Japanese automakers have enjoyed brisk demand for their smaller, fuel efficient cars in recent years.



 Slow

 The ailing Big Three US automakers -- General Motors, Ford and Chrysler -- meanwhile have faced criticism in Washington for being too slow to shift their focus from gas-guzzling SUVs.

 But even Japanese automakers still have more work to do before fuel-cell or electric vehicles are completely environmentally friendly.

 While fuel cell or electric vehicles emit no carbon dioxide themselves, CO2 is produced when hydrogen or electricity is produced from fossil fuels.

 Honda Motor has been conducting research into hydrogen generation from solar power since 2001, but only at an experimental level. (AFP) Unsold new cars are pictured parked in a carpark near Sheerness in Kent, southeast England, on January 7, 2009. It was announced earlier that car sales in Britain had dropped 21% in December 2008, the 8th month of decreasing sales in a row. New car sales in Britain dropped by more than 20 percent in December, leaving sales for the whole of 2008 down over 11 percent, as the industry body forecast Wednesday that 2009 would be worse. A total of 108,691 new cars were registered in December -- 21.2 percent down on December 2007 and the eighth consecutive monthly fall, the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders (SMMT) said (AFP Photo) Audi AG sells over one million cars in 2008 AUDI AG has achieved its stated objective of selling one million cars in 2008 for the first time in its history. With about 1,003,400 cars sold worldwide, Audi increased its unit sales volume by 4.1 percent over the prior year (2007: 964,151). With the newly introduced Audi Q5 and the successful young A4 family, sales in December increased by 17.4 percent over December in the previous year, to around 82,800 units (2007: 70,523).



 "This 13th record year in a row is a success achieved by the entire Audi team. I would like to express the gratitude of the Board of Management for your wholehearted commitment," says Rupert Stadler, Chairman of the Board of Management of AUDI AG. "We'll continue to draw on this strength in the difficult year of 2009. We have ambitious long-term goals: We want to make Audi the most attractive premium brand worldwide."



 In the past year, the Ingolstadt-based firm has launched 12 new or upgraded models. This gives Audi the advantage of having the youngest model range in the premium segment. The most important introductions were the Audi A4 sedan, which was rolled out in Europe in November 2007, the Audi A4 Avant which followed in April, product upgrades of the A3 and A6, and the brand-new Audi Q5 .



 "We will keep up our model initiative as planned: In 2009 we'll continue to offer our customers a succession of new models," says Peter Schwarzenbauer, Member of the Board of Management for Marketing and Sales of AUDI AG.



 Audi achieved growth especially in the European markets and in the Asia-Pacific region. In Western Europe, unit sales of around 53,900 in December surpassed the prior year's December by 22.7 percent (2007: 43,969). In the entire year of 2008, Audi sold some 667,000 cars in this region, 2.5 percent more than in the prior year (2007: 650,407). These excellent sales volumes also resulted in record market shares in Western Europe and Germany.



 In the Asia-Pacific region, Audi delivered new cars to around 14,000 customers in December, an increase of 15.6 percent in unit sales (2007: 12,097). During the entire year, 155,100 customers bought an Audi in this region – 15.6 percent more than in 2007.

 In the USA, the third-largest export market for the premium brand from Ingolstadt, sales of 87,760 cars in 2008 amounted to a 6.1 percent drop from the prior year (2007: 93,506). In December Audi sold 7,712 units here, 9.3 percent fewer than in the prior year (2007: 8,504). Porsche shares in Volkswagen to be increased to over 50 per cent Last week Porsche Automobil Holding SE, Stuttgart, purchased further ordinary shares in Volkswagen AG, Wolfsburg, and will increase its holding to 50.76 per cent of all ordinary voting shares in Volkswagen.

 As a result of passing the threshold of 50 per cent Porsche will acquire indirect control over Scania AB, Södertälje, and is required by Swedish law to launch a mandatory offer for the truck manufacturer.

 The Stuttgart-domiciled company is not bound by pre-acquisition prices and is only obliged to offer the minimum price prescribed by law. 

 The minimum price will be calculated on the basis of the volume weighted average stock exchange price of the Scania shares during the 20 trading days prior to publication of the acquisition of the majority in Volkswagen . 

 Porsche points out that it has no strategic interest in Scania and is not interested in acquiring Scania shares. Toyota is suspending production at all 12 of its Japan plants for 11 days in February and March this year. This is a stoppage of unprecedented scale for the nation's top automaker as it grapples with shrinking global demand, AP reports. The last time Toyota Motor Corp. halted production at all its Japan plants was in August 1993, when demand plunged because of a rising yen, and that was for only one day, according to the company.



 A global economic downturn has hammered the auto industry in Japan and elsewhere, forcing carmakers to cut staff, lower production and delay new models. Major automakers in the U.S. had teetered on the brink of collapse until securing a multibillion dollar government lifeline.



 "We are coping with a slump in global sales," Toyota spokesman Hideaki Homma said Tuesday. "Demand in the world auto market is so depressed that every model is falling sharply in sales."



 Toyota said last year that it was stopping production at its 12 domestic plants for three days in January. But it decided on additional closures because of the global downturn. Toyota will stop output for six days in February and five days in March, it said.

 Of Toyota's domestic factories, four produce vehicles while the rest make engines and auto parts. Suzuki GB is offering a refreshing alternative for Hare and Hounds and Cross-Country riders this winter, with the introduction of the two-stroke RM XC range.

 Available in 125 and 250 versions, the new XC models are derived from the hugely popular and established RM range, boasting everything a Hare and Hounds or Cross-Country rider needs, featuring a larger capacity fuel tank, hand guards, O-ring chain and a Relentless Fast Eddy replica graphics kit.



 Talking about the introduction of these models was Suzuki GB's George Cheeseman, who commented, "This element of the sport is not only a growing area, but also a discipline that is close to many of us at Suzuki. We appreciate the demand for bikes that are more focussed for this sport, while recognising that many riders do not require full-spec enduro bikes with the additional registration and road fund costs. With the XC range, we are able to offer a proven machine that is a focussed but cost effective alternative to the usual choices."



 Available from all authorised off-road Suzuki dealers, with just a £200 increase in retail price over the standard models, the RM125XC has a recommended retail price of £3920 and the 250XC will be £4210 inc VAT.

 The RM125 and 250XC models will be used by Relentless Suzuki Enduro rider, Paul Edmondson (Fast Eddy), at various events in the forthcoming season. The Gujarat government continues to evade queries on the incentives offered to the Nano car project of Tata Motors, part of the Tata group. 



 When Minister of State for Industries Saurabh Patel on Monday, December 5 unveiled the new industrial policy, media persons asked flurry of questions pertaining to the incentives given to the Tata`s car project which was relocated from Singur in West Bengal to Sanand near Ahmedabad. 



 They also inquired whether a similar package of incentives would be offered to any other industrial project. However, the minister declined to be engaged in the discussions and finally called off the conference. 



 The state government has maintained its silence on the issue, neither confirming nor denying the authenticity of the confidential report on the document in regards to incentive package offered to the Nano car project that was leaked by media last November. 

 The industry department has refused to disclose information under the Right to Information Act (RTI) about the benefits offered to the Tata group for shifting the Nano car to Gujarat. It has categorized it as a `secret business deal` between the government and the corporate house, which cannot be parted with. Japan's Kawasaki Heavy Industries said Friday it will withdraw from the MotoGP racing circuit as the global economic crisis pressures the firm to cut costs.



 "The effect of the current financial crisis on the global economy is extremely significant and an extended period of time is required for a recovery," Kawasaki said in a statement.

 "We saw the need for efficient redistribution of our management resources and have decided to forgo participation in the Moto GP from 2009 on," it said.



 Kawasaki spends roughly four billion yen (43.8 million dollars) annually to run the team, said an official of the company based in the western Japanese city of Kobe.



 With the decision, Kawasaki joined a growing number of major Japanese auto manufacturers that have terminated their racing programmes to cut costs as consumer demand for new vehicles plummets worldwide.

 Honda took the shock decision to retire from Formula One racing, while Subaru and Suzuki pulled out of the World Rally Championships. (AFP) Welcome to the power of choice. The new Continental GTC Speed is the most powerful Bentley convertible ever. Born of the same heart as the Continental GTC but with a different soul. Darker. Sportier. Tauter. 



 The Continental GTC Speed benefits from a dark chrome grille, 20" multi-spoke sport wheels, twin rifled sports tail pipes. Inside lies a world of contrasts; Mulliner diamond quilted leather seats, knurled chrome sports lever encased in hide, 3-spoke leather steering wheel with aluminium inlays. 



 Lower the roof and press the drilled alloy sport foot-pedal to enjoy the full sensory experience. 

 A lowered ride height delivers a richer driving experience, enhanced by the new Sport mode on ESP. Agility matched by greater body control, improved handling dynamics and superior grip. A new rear fixed spoiler provides improved aerodynamics. Then that sound again, a richer, sportier exhaust note filling your ears.



