SportsThe Motor Racing Association (MRA) is to kick off the year's motor sports calendar with the much anticipated MRA Pelwatte Rally 2009 on January 23, 24 and 25. Following a ceremonial start at the AMRC Speed Drome in Battaramulla on the evening of January 21, the competitors will proceed to the picturesque sugarcane fields of Moneragala where the competitive stages will take place on the fast gravel roads of the Pelwatte Sugar Corporation.



 The MRA, the only proponent of FIA-standard closed-course rallying in Sri Lanka, will conduct this meet as part of the 2009 National Rally Championship. A minimum of 10 special stages, including two night stages, will be conducted.

 Over the last few years, the Pelwatte Rally has come to prominence as the fastest rally held in Sri Lanka, with GT-class stars such as Dinesh Deheragoda and Nishan Weerasooria repeatedly averaging over 100 km/h per stage in their Mitsubishi Lancer Evolutions, putting this event on par with World Rally Championship events in terms of outright speed.



 This year, Deheragoda and Weerasooria will renew their intriguing battle from MRA Pelwatte Rally 2007 which was won by Weerasooria and co-driver Sriomal De Silva. Both crews will face a stiff challenge from November's MRA Sevanagala Rally winner and multiple GT champion Aravinda Premadasa in his Lancer Evolution VII. With Deheragoda also due to give his new Lancer Evolution X its rallying debut, a fantastic event beckons.



 With regular contenders such as Reyaz Farouk (Evolution VII), Shantha Suraweeera (Subaru Impreza WRX STi), Shafraz Junaid (Subaru Impreza WRX), Dinesh Senanayake (Toyota RAV4) and Javidh Wahab (Honda Civic Type-R) also expected to compete, this year's Pelwatte Rally promises to be the fastest and most open event in years. Deheragoda and co-driver Mushtaq Ahamed are also out to get a good start to the year in order to maintain their streak of overall rally championships, having won every single title since the inception of FIA-standard rallying in Sri Lanka, in 2002.



 Entry forms are available at the MRA Secretariat at No. 5 Havelock Place, Colombo 5. With several holiday resorts in the area and multiple viewing locations along the rally stages, spectators are encouraged to attend this world-class event for a chance to witness high-speed rallying at its finest. The ceremonial finish and prize-giving will be held on the evening of the 26th of January, also at the AMRC Speed Drome.



 Spectators are encouraged to attend both the start and the finish at Battaramulla and cheer on the drivers. For further information, contact Dilshan Dodanwela on 0777602618. Emirates, the Dubai-based global airline has announced its commitment to the future success of Asian football, with a four year, multi-million dollar extension to its sponsorship of the Asian Football Confederation (AFC). 

 Emirates first became an Official Sponsor and Official Airline of the AFC in 2002 and has remained committed to Asia's most prestigious football events ever since. 



 His Highness Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed Al-Maktoum, chairman and chief executive, Emirates Airline and Group and AFC president, Mohamed bin Hammam, made the announcement at a press conference held at the airline's global headquarters in Dubai. 



 Sheikh Ahmed said, "Asian football continues to make giant strides forward in terms of quality and reach, and this commitment to success mirrors the drive and ambitions of Emirates. We have been involved in Asian football since 1996 when we were the Official Airline of the AFC Asian Cup and we have all come a long way since then. 



 "We look forward to supporting all of the AFC events, many of which will be taking place in the cities that we fly to within our ever expanding network of over 100 destinations across six continents."



 Mohamed bin Hamamm, President of the AFC, said, "I would like to thank Emirates Airline for their loyalty to the sport of football not only in the region but also around the world. It is through the support of our partners, such as Emirates, that helps us to continue the growth and development of Asian football and we are extremely grateful to them."



 Seamus O'Brien, chairman, World Sport Group, said: "Emirates Airline has been a partner of the Asian Football Confederation since 2002, today however, marks a new chapter in Emirates Airline's involvement in Asian football. In less than a decade, Emirates Airline has become a key supporter of Asian football and this renewal is in itself a powerful testament to the growing stature and strength of the sport in the region."



 As an Official Partner of the AFC, Emirates has rights to all AFC tournaments including the AFC Champions League, AFC Cup, AFC Challenge Cup, and a number of Club, Women's and Youth team events. Through this partnership Emirates will gain considerable media exposure with over 120 games each year being televised on a live or delayed basis around the world. 

 In addition to its support of Asian Football Confederation, Emirates is an Official Partner of the FIFA World CupTM with close links to FIFA and all its projects in the 2007–2014 period. At the 2006 FIFA World CupTM Emirates became the first airline to be an Official Partner of the world's premier football tournament. 



 Emirates also sponsors Arsenal football club and has the naming rights of their new home, the Emirates Stadium, in addition to partnerships with Hamburg SV, Paris Saint Germain Football Club, AC Milan and Olympiacos FC. Emirates is also involved in a wide range of sports including sailing, golf, horseracing, tennis, cricket and rugby. The history of the game in Sri Lanka dates back to the 1880s when the country was under the colonial rule of the English. Both rural and urban folks took to the game in a big way and within a short span of time football became one of the most popular sports, besides cricket.



 However, for some reason or other, Sri Lankan football has never quite made an impact internationally. Recently though, the game is growing from strength to strength, largely due to the FIFA Goal Project and the Football Federation of Sri Lanka (FFSL)'s untiring emphasis on the development at grassroots level.



 Sri Lanka started playing in the World Cup qualifiers in 1994 and managed to reach the final qualifying round of the 2004 Asian Cup, where they lost out to the likes of Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates and Syria.



 However they managed to emphatically defeat Laos 3-0 in the 2006 World Cup qualifiers, carrying on from their performance in 2002 World Cup qualifying campaign when they finished third in their group behind Thailand and Lebanon.



 Under the Goal Project, FFSL has also been able to have their Football House and the National Training Centre at Baddegana. In addition, FFSL has begun to work with the Ministry of Education and the Office for School Football launching a development programme incorporating 428 schools across the nation. This should provide the base for the country to find and nurture its future talent.



 Today under the leadership of Management Committee Chairman, the game is doing its best with limited facilities especially league's like Kandy, Matale and Gampola who are affected without proper playing fields.



 A big hand should go to the Minister of Sports Gamini Lokuge and his able staff for giving the much needed support for the sport.

 At the beginning of the 21st century women's football, like men's football, became professionalised and is growing in both popularity and participation. In 2008, Support of women's professional football has increased around the globe. It is now one of the most popular sports in the world. 

 Today the Football Federation gives a big hand for the promotion of women's football. (Mariks) Old Benedictine Sports Club (OBSC) has organised an inter-club and inter- school knockout soccer tournament to mark their Golden Jubilee celebrations.



 The tournament which will see the cream of the island's Soccer clubs and schools will commence next Sunday with the finals scheduled for February 7. All matches will be played during the weekend only and at the St. Benedict's College grounds. The schools game will commence at 2.15 pm and the club games will kick off at 4.00 pm.



 The inter-club champions will receive the OBSC Golden Jubilee trophy and Rs.100,000/- and the runner-up will take away Rs. 75,000/-. The schools' champions will receive the OBSC Golden Jubilee trophy and Rs. 50,000/- while the runners-up will take away Rs. 25,000/. 



 Participating teams:

 Clubs: Ratnam, Renown, Saunders, New Youngs, Blue Stars, Jupiters, Saunders and Old Bens. 

 Schools: St Joseph's, St Peter's, De Mazenod, Hameed Hal Hussein, Ananda, Hindu College, Zahira and St Benedict's. 

 The new boss of Trinity College, Brig. W. Gamini Kumara Ariyaratne, is happy over the sporting activities of the school and also keen on giving his best possible backing for all sports. He took over office as acting principal few months back and is pleased with the affairs at the school, he has become very popular among the students and the staff.



 Brig. Ariyaratne was a good sportsman during his school days at house level and later in the Army he played hockey, and was a fine pistol shooter and won Army colours. He also played hockey for the Defence Services.



 He is happy over cricket getting back to the old standards. This year under the leadership of R. Jaleel they have done extremely well up to date. Out of the seven games played they have beaten schools like Kingswood, Kegalu Vidyalaya, St. Anne's, and Sri Rahula outright and drawn with Wesley, Ananda and St. Peter's. Trinity has produced some of the best teams in the past and also some top class players.



 They are one of the oldest cricket playing schools. Before the Second World War Trinity not only produced several top class cricketers but also produced several invincible teams.

 Rugger is today, particularly at Trinity, the number one glamour sport. Whatever the secret of its recent appeal rugger has always been one of the most popular sports since it was introduced in 1906. This time Trinity will be fielding a well balanced side and will be in the news.



 Trinity who started the game in 1906 at one time was known as the cradle of rugby in Sri Lanka and it was said that Trinitians take to rugby like ducks taking to water. Trinity has produced a vast number of players who have donned the Sri Lanka Jersey and are far too numerous to mention. According to the new principal they are sure to be on top of the "A" division table and the Bradby is going to be an exciting game with Trinity fielding a strong team.



 Trinity has a history in athletics and they take pride in having produced Duncan White whose phenomenal performance at the 1948 London Olympics, when he ran second to Cochran in the 400 metres Hurdles, is yet to be bettered by a Sri Lankan.

 Trinity took up hockey only in 1950, ten years previously hockey had in fact been played quite seriously by a school side that was called the "Rabbits" who took part in the Kandy District Tournaments.



 At swimming, Trinitians are doing extremely well in this sport today and also in table tennis, badminton, basketball and the iron sports. In the good old days Trinity had good tennis teams, which took part in the Public Schools Meets. Now Trinity has introduced football at which they are doing well.



 According to Ariyaratne, sports have played a large part in the life of the school and every student in the school is expected to participate in a sport as a character building exercise. Thus participation in sports will not be with the sole intention of achieving victories that would appear as sports page headlines, but students will also learn the true spirit of sportsmanship. 

 So under the leadership of Brig. W. Gamini Kumara Ariyaratne, Trinity's Sports is going to be at the top in more ways than one. The inter-club Sevens tournament 2009 organised by Kandy SC will be held at the Nittawela grounds on February 7 and 8. The tournament will be held on Saturday and Sunday with all participating teams housed in Kandy in a leading hotel.

 Defending champions Kandy SC will kick off together with CR & FC, CH& FC, Havelocks SC, Army SC, Police SC, Navy SC, Air Force SC and a few more teams.

 Kandy SC's secretary Iswan Omar will be in charge of the arrangements.

 The second leg will be held in Colombo at the CR & FC grounds on February 28 and March 1 and it will serve as a trial for the Hong Kong Sevens in March 27-29.

 (Mariks) Ashen Maduranga Kurukulasuriya of Ananda College won two gold medals in the recently held Ananda Top 10 Swimming Championship held at the Ananda Swimming Pool. While winning the 100m breaststroke event with ease, Ashen established a new record in the 50m breaststroke event. He also represents the Rainbow Swimming Club and hopes to bring glory to Sri Lanka in the future Former players divided on the use of double-sided bats MELBOURNE: Former players are divided in their opinion on the use of double-sided bat with the likes of Doug Walters and Ian Davis calling for a complete ban on the innovation. 

 Former player John Benaud, however, has voted in favour of the bat after hard-hitter David Warner of New South Wales tested it against South Australia last week. 



 Both Walters and Davis were of the view that the double-blade bat would give an unfair advantage to the batsman and therefore has no place in competitive cricket. 

 "I truly believe it gives the batsman a totally unfair advantage against any bowling attack, but especially when a spinner comes on," Walters said. 



 "If a bowler must first inform a batsman if he is going to bowl over or around the wicket, why should a batsman be allowed to use a double-sided bat that gives him an unfair advantage? There's no room for it, in my book," he said. 

 Davis, who is also the General Manager of Slazenger Sports, said, "I wouldn't have used one had they been available in my day because I could never play the sweep, let alone attempt playing the reverse sweep. 



 "But that's not to say they haven't a place in the game today," he was quoted as saying by 'The Australian'. 

 However, Banaud's views were totally contrasting. "If it's legal, and it is, and a batsman gets some success in using it, then fair play to him. 



 "Until such time as the authorities pass a law that doesn't allow it, only then should the batsman have a rethink about using it," he said. – [PTI] Edirisinghe Trust Investments (ETI) for the second successive year has come forward to sponsor the MCA 'C' division 50-overs league tournament 2009 (turf matches) which commenced yesterday. 



 Out of the seven participating teams four teams are newcomers to this division namely, Janashakthi Group 'B' (2008 'D' division winner), HSBC 'A' (2008 'D' division runner-up), Ceylinco Group SC 'B' (Grameen Bank), Bartleet Group, Stafford Motors, JL Morison and MAS Active Synergy are the teams retained from last year.

 In the 2008 final E-Wis beat the sponsors ETI by six wickets at the P. Sara Stadium thus E-Wis and ETI earned a due promotion to the 'B' division this year. 



 A few years back the 'C' division matches were played on matting wickets. 

 Quite a number of good club players turn out for their firms in this division. MCA up-graded this tournament to turf wickets. 

 The seven participating teams will be initially engaged in a single group round-robin, consisting of 21 matches that will conclude on February 1. At the conclusion of the league stage, the four top teams in the points table will qualify for the semi-finals on February 7, with February 8 being kept aside as a reserve day in case of a no-result. The final is scheduled for February 8 at the P. Sara Stadium.



 ETI will be offering special awards for the Best Batsman, Best Bowler and Man-of-the-Series (based on performances in the league stage) and Man-of-the-Final. 



 Today's matches: Bartleets vs. Ceylinco SC 'B' (Grameen Bank) at FTZ/Katunayake; JL Morison vs. MAS Active Synergy at Colts; HSBC 'A' vs. Stafford Motors at Bloomfield. – [LW]



