BusinessOn the eve of the 51st anniversary of Central Finance Company PLC (CF), the company maintains the best rating amongst the Registered Finance Companies. Fitch Ratings Lanka has affirmed the Company's National Long-term rating at 'A+ (lka)'. "The Outlook is Stable", Fitch Ratings Lanka announced in a press release. 



 A company spokesman explained "In continuing to enjoy the A+(lka) rating for the past three years, Central Finance has proved its strong financial position, good asset quality, solvency and strong capital position relative to peers in the financial sector". 



 Over the past half century, Central Finance has expanded to become one of the most respected financial services companies in the country. Starting with a modest capital of Rs 170,000, CF currently has shareholder funds of Rs.6.6 billion as at end September 2008. Profit after tax has exceeded a billion rupees in the past three years, recording Rs 1,048 million in 2007/08- increasing from Rs 1,024 million in the previous year. Operating income increased from Rs 1,003 million to Rs 1,066 million in 2007/08.



 Prudent financial polices in addition to complying with guidelines and norms specified by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) has supplemented the inherent strength of the company. A consistent policy of re-investment of earnings continue to strengthen its capital base, which is the highest in the sector . 



 The establishment of strict credit controls, coupled with an effective network of branches ensures timely and efficient collection of receivables has resulted in positive trends in lowering non-performing loans. Skilful management of financial resources and the priority given to the development of human resources at all levels has helped the company to build stability and strength over the years. 



 This has been endorsed by Fitch Ratings Lanka. It states: "Well-defined credit policies and stringent recovery procedures have translated into asset quality that is amongst the best in the Registered Finance Company (RFC) sector in Sri Lanka." The statement further says: "CF's NPL (defined by Fitch as loans in arrears for over three months)/gross loan figure was 9.8% at H109 (FYE08: 8.3%), while the corresponding ratio at the six-month NPL level was 3.2% at H109 (FYE08: 3.3%). CF also had an additional provision for NPLs in arrears between three to six months - which was more prudent than the required regulation."



 Fitch pointed out that "Consequently, Net NPL/Equity ratio was 21.6% at H109 (17.3% at FYE08)", while adding "Although the majority of CF's assets are financed by customer deposits, growth has been increasingly funded by bank borrowings (17% of the funding mix at H109 versus 7% at FYE05). Interest rate swaps of LKR 2.6 bn at FYE08 (40% of borrowings at FYE08) have minimised market risk. Internal capital generation was strong, with high margins, low cost structures (cost/income ratio was 41% in H109) and a strong retention policy; overall capitalisation remained strong at 22% of assets at H109." 



 Meanwhile, CF's policy of diversifying into new ventures has paid dividends. CF Insurance Brokers (Pvt) Ltd, for instance, continues to be the country's leading insurance broker. The investment in its associate company, Nations Trust Bank PLC (NTB) has brought in encouraging returns. NTB's net interest income increased by 23% last year to record Rs 2,110 million. Profit after tax of Rs 505 million showed an increase of 56% over the previous year. Amongst the Arpico Privilege cardholders over 50,000 members who spent Rs. 10,000 and above, a month at Arpico Supercentres and Superstores from 15th August to 15th November automatically qualified to win exquisite sovereign gold pendants encrusted with glittering white stones. Five customers won from a lucky draw. 



 Customer Relationship Manager, Richard Pieris Distributors Ltd., Anil Senewiratne, who was present at the occasion commented: "Our amazing offer stimulated a huge demand for the Privilege Card which was very encouraging. We endeavour to create a shopping experience that is beyond our customer's expectations and the Privilege Card is designed to reward loyal customers – this time with a fabulous gift of gold" Sampath Bank helps Junior get ready for new school year Proud to be the bank that presents your future, Sampath Bank is taking pride in helping the future generations of Sri Lankan leadersto get ready for the new school year. Offering a brace of Minor Savings Account to cater to the different needs of parents and children, including Sampath Pubudu, bonus interest and special gifts to encourage children to save, and Sampath Sapiri - the high interest Children's Savings Account, Sampath Bank is already very much involved in developing the habit of saving amongst the children of Sri Lanka. 



 To support the development of the savings habit, while helping the children of Sri Lanka get ready for the new school year, Sampath Bank offers fabulous gifts of schoolbooks, gift vouchers for school shoes and other school supplies through the Sampath Pubudu and Sampath Sapiri accounts. 



 Offering both existing account holders and those opening new accounts the chance to receive school supplies for deposits over Rs. 1000, as well as a voucher for school shoes for deposits over Rs. 2500, and a large set of school supplies coupled with a voucher for shoes for deposits over RS.5000. 



 And remember, the gifts you receive are valued at over 50% of the deposit amount, so the more you save - the more you receive with this fabulous offer from Sampath Bank. So visit your nearest Sampath Bank and save in your Pubudu or Sapiri account, today to get ready for the new school year with Sampath Bank. Eastman Narangoda, the newly appointed Chairman of Seylan Bank PLC along with the new members of Seylan's Board comprising Nihal Jayamanne PC, Lalith Withana, and Neomal Gunawardena assumed duties in the new year by lighting the traditional oil lamp at the Ceylinco Seylan Towers.



 The Chairman, addressing the staff, mentioned that he, along with the other members of the Board of Directors would provide guidance and directions to make Seylan a stronger bank and a leading player in the financial services industry and expressed his confidence that this new partnership will drive the bank to greater heights.



 Nihal Jayamanne PC also addressed the staff. Thereafter, the Board of Directors and the senior management of Seylan Bank led by Ajita Pasqual Chief Executive Officer partook of traditional new year milk rice and other sweetmeats. 

 The Board of Directors also met with the Corporate Management and outlined the steps for the future. HSBC keeps adding value to all its cardholders this season by treating them to numerous offers, discounts and rewards during the season. HSBC Premier, HSBC Platinum, HSBC Gold and HSBC Classic credit cardholders which are valid until the 31 January 2009. 



 In addition to the fabulous offers already applicable to cardholders, HSBC customers will have the opportunity to purchase goods on 12 equal monthly installments on the HSBC 0% interest scheme and enjoy the first installment free when they shop at the following merchant outlets: Modern Homes, Singer Mega, Brown and Company, Softlogic Max, Softlogic Lifestyle Electronics, B P De Silva, ATOM, PC House , PC Partner, PC Park, Colombo Jewellery Stores, Unique Jewels, Jewel Laurel (Pvt) Ltd EPSI Concepts, Del Air, Teleseen Marketing, -Premium International Technologies. 



 Further, customers can also enjoy special discounts up to 15% on a range of retail clothing stores such as Aashkii, Gabanna, Giodanno, Addidas, Bambino, Cool Planet and, during the promotion period on selected products. 



 HSBC Reward points can be redeemed at Odel, where cardholders will receive a 10% discount on redemption of their rewards points, while the following premier establishments - Exclusive Lines, Jetwing Hotels, Vijitha Yapa and Mango Tree will provide customers with special discounts. Allianz Lanka realised plans for reaching out to the people of the provinces with the opening of its first provincial branch in Kurunegala.

 In her welcome address, Allianz Lanka CEO Surekha Alles affirmed, "We are delighted to be able to now offer our customers in the Wayamba province the benefits, facilities and the same financial security enjoyed by our customers in Colombo. Today is a milestone in the careful strategy for expanding our business in Sri Lanka. Kurunegala is one of Sri Lanka's most developed and dynamic provinces, and we are convinced that this is the ideal point from which to spearhead our branch expansion."



 The inaugural ceremony was graced by Guest of Honour the Chief Secretary of the Wayamba province G..B. Jayasundera, who expressed his satisfaction that a multinational insurer of the stature of Allianz had chosen Kurunegala to set up its first branch office. 

 The Kurunegala office located at 174 Negombo Road, Kurunegala, is headed by Allianz Zonal Manager Nishantha Bandara. Allianz Kurunegala is equipped with all facilities for Life and General business and is serviced by an experienced team of sales, front office and underwriting professionals trained to internationally benchmarked Allianz standards of customer service and underwriting. 



 Allianz Lanka is backed by the global strength of Allianz SE, one of the world' s largest financial services providers with experience since 1890 in providing innovative insurance, asset management and banking services to over 80 million customers in more than 70 countries. The Allianz Group has over € (Euros) One Trillion in assets under management and ranked 19th among Fortune 500's listing of top global corporates in 2007, over half of whom insure with Allianz. 



 The local subsidiary successfully set up General insurance operations in Sri Lanka in 2005, and already has an impressive track record of achievements, with many 'firsts' in performance in just three years and a fast growing customer base of large multinationals, local corporates, small traders and individuals. The success of its General insurance business in Sri Lanka prompted parent company Allianz SE to set up Life operations in the country in October 2008, following the approval in July this year, of its application to commence Life operations in Sri Lanka by insurance regulator IBSL ((Insurance Board of Sri Lanka). An all religions ceremony to wish customers general public and the country good luck, peace and prosperity, while launching of a new scheme named 'Smart Investor,' by the Bank of Ceylon, was held yesterday, the first day of Year 2009 .

 In the picture B A C Fernando General Manager BOC, is seen handing over the first two accounts to Dr Sanjeewa Rajapakshe and Dr Mrs Rajapakshe who are attached to the cardiology unit of the General Hospital, Colombo. Cenmetrix Systems introduces BioLite Net, the world's smallest IP-based fingerprint terminal with time attendance and access control capability. With rugged IP65 rated waterproof and weatherproof structure, it offers extra durability and is perfect for outdoor & indoor installations. All the features come in an elegantly designed, slick and slim device with Network interface by TCP/IP or RS485. 



 Biolite Net has a 5000 fingerprint capacity and matches 2000 fingers in less than 1 second. Device comes with a built in Mifare proximity card and a key pad. This stand alone device has a built in 8MB flash and 16MB RAM.



 Cenmetrix is a total biometric solutions company (www.cenmetrix.lk). Cenmetrix's local portfolio includes fingerprint security access control/ time & attendance solutions to several other leading companies such as Royal Ceramics, Sri Lanka Telecom, David Pieris, Seylan Merchant Bank, Milco, United Motors, Ceylon Biscuits Ltd, No Limit, Hayleys AIG, and The Colombo Stock Exchange. The Commercial Bank's Paymaster facility, the first total payment solution offered by a bank in Sri Lanka, has now been extended to handle ETF payments, in yet another industry first by the country's benchmark private sector bank. 

 The web-enabled Paymaster interface can now facilitate monthly contributions and surcharges and upload monthly member contribution details for the convenience of employers eliminating manual filling of 'Form 11 Returns', the bank announced this week. 



 Under this scheme, it is not required to fill remittance forms, draw cheques and send to the ETF Board by hand or by post. The notable benefit to an institution from this system is the employer's ability to verify the accuracy of the payment details instantly and ensure high confidentiality. 



 Additionally, employers can eliminate the hassle of closed counters at the time of payment or postal delays, which result in delays in remitting ETF dues and lead to surcharges.



 "The Commercial Bank Paymaster facility is currently being used by over 1000 corporate clients because of the convenience it offers to companies, said the bank's Deputy General Manager-Operations, Sanath Bandaranayake. "With the upgrade to handle ETF payments, Paymaster will help expedite processes and minimise documentation."



 Launched in 2007, Paymaster replaced cheques and cash for payment of salaries thereby minimising processing time, costs and the risk of transporting cash. It was based on the bank's extensively used Salary Remittance Package (SRP). Paymaster enables organisations or individuals to make virtually any type of payment to multiple beneficiaries by simply uploading a file to Commercial Bank's on-line banking platform. 



 Possible payments through Paymaster include settlement of suppliers, disbursements of dividends or interest, payment of insurance claims or agent commissions and payment of salaries and bonuses. As many as 2,500 payments can be accommodated in a single file in the format developed for paymaster by Commercial Bank.



 Commercial Bank's on-line banking system will automatically generate reports on payments made or rejected on the same day, providing users with confirmation of successful transactions. One of the key advantages that Paymaster offers is Commercial Bank's network of 333 automated teller machines, the country's largest automated money dispensing system that makes accessing funds easier to its accountholders and for cardholders of other banks belonging to the Visa / Mastercard network.



 Established in 1969, Commercial Bank is Sri Lanka's leading bank, with dominant positions in consumer banking, treasury and securities markets. The bank owns a network of 169 computer-linked branches, supermarket-banking outlets and service centres in Sri Lanka. 



 The bank was recently named one of the top 1000 banks of the world and ranked 155th in the world on soundness, by 'The Banker', a top-notch global banking magazine. The bank has also been adjudged Sri Lanka's 'Bank of the Year' seven times by the same magazine and also been rated the 'Best Bank in Sri Lanka' for ten consecutive years by US based 'Global Finance' Magazine. In July 2007, the bank was named the 'Best Bank' in Sri Lanka by another prestigious international financial magazine 'Euromoney'. Gunasekera was born in 1960 and graduated in Agriculture from the University of Peradeniya, Sri Lanka. He started his career as an executive at one of the leading state owned fertilizer companies in Sri Lanka. After two years, he joined A. Baur & Co. Ltd and at present counts 20 years of service in the company which was established in 1897. He is responsible for Marketing, Production, Product Development 

 and Administration of Fertilizer and Plant Protection Chemicals. He is liaising with all statutory organizations with regard to policy matters in relation to the fertilizer industry.

 He also coordinates with Steering Committee, which acts as an independent think tank for the organisation.



