BusinessFuture entrepreneurs of Sri Lanka come into their own As confident student entrepreneurs unveil their talents at the 11th annual award ceremony for outstanding entrepreneurs across the country 

 They were confident and professional as they discussed future plans and issues faced by their companies with references to global economic crises, falling commodity prices and unfavourable weather conditions, and it was hard to imagine that the speakers were not experienced directors of a large company but rather, students still in school. 



 The Young Entrepreneurs of Sri Lanka (YESL) programme conducted their 11th annual award ceremony at the BMICH on Tuesday, and an encouraging number of young and confident entrepreneurs seemed to be in the making through this innovative initiative.



 The 16 - year - old who was adjudged Best Entrepreneur of the Year, Ananda Priyankara from Richmond College, Galle was an encouraging sign of the future as he stood confidently at the podium and explained his 'Rich Rubber Company' business to the audience and gathered dignitaries.



 "Despite the bad weather in the first five months of last year and the global recession which started in October, my company made very good profits. I hope to make a turnover of Rs. 50 million this year along with an export income of US$ 10000." Not failing to take advantage of the opportunity he asked, "If anyone wants a rubber roller for Rs 100,000, I can supply it without any issues."

 His passion for his business was echoed through the gathered youngsters as the Best Boy Entrepreneur Kushan Pathiraja of St. Joseph's College, Colombo 10 and Best Girl Entrepreneur, Rosanjala Dias from Kuda Kusum Balika Vidyalaya, Bandarawela were announced amidst the awards for the Best Company Secretary, Best Annual Report, Best Product, Best President, Best Director for HR, Marketing, Production etc.



 The YESL Programme is an initiative of Junior Achievers which is extremely successful in over 110 countries all across the world, and was brought to Sri Lanka by YESL President Patrick Amarasinghe who realised the importance of honing entrepreneurship skills in students while they were in school. "We may learn about business from our books but we don't get the practical experience or exposure while in school," he explained. The programme gives the students enrolled, a taste of the true business reality where they have to establish companies, create and sell products, establish a board of directors, issue annual reports and conduct general meetings. 



 "The demand for this programme is growing," he informed, "And the Ministry of Education wants all schools to enter the programme." However, resources are limiting the ability of YESL to spread far and wide. "Even though we have schools in all corners of the island involved in YESL, we need more funding if we are to grow."



 All the specialised material needed for the programme is brought down from USA. The YESL is currently being assisted by USAID but their funding is due to end in a few months. "We need private partnerships and contributions to help this programme continue and grow."



 The importance of YESL is evident in the alumni who have taken the skills learnt while at school and started their businesses early, turning into successful entrepreneurs by the age of 25. "We have close to six million children in this country," Amarasinghe explained, "And the biggest challenge Sri Lanka faces is on how to add value to the human resources we have. The most important investment you can make is to invest in the future of our children."



 He concludes that programmes like YESL are the first step where children enter the world with an added advantage. "We're living in a 'human volcano'," he warned, "Our biggest asset could be our biggest threat if we don't direct them carefully and from the start." Educating estate youth: An investment for the future A medical doctor whose mother plucks two leaves and a bud in a tea estate was until recently considered an amazing accomplishment for the entire nation. Now however higher education among children of estate workers is no longer a rare phenomenon. In fact there are several undergraduates among this year's university entrants whose parents work in plantations. In addition, there are two medical students, one engineering student and five more in other faculties. This illustrates the change that is taking place in the estates and how the single-minded goal of the Regional Plantation Companies to promote the physical, mental, social and spiritual well-being of the estate community in support of government policy is resulting in stimulating ambition and commitment among the new generation growing up in the tea plantations. 



 This is achieved through the Plantation Human Development Trust (PHDT) that has been set up to coordinate an array of activities that bolster the quality of life of estate workers in 430 plantations that come under Regional Plantation Companies (RPC), Janatha Estate Development Board (JEDB) and Sri Lanka State Plantations Corporation (SLSPC). These activities pivot around maternal care, child nutrition, disease control, family development, even housing and sanitation. Pressing problems in estates such as the prevalence of worm infestation and anaemia among the plantation community are also addressed through de-worming programmes and improved sanitation. 



 A study conducted by the Sri Lanka Business Development Centre on the perceptions of estate youth revealed that they were appreciative of the welfare programmes implemented during the past two decades, particularly with regard to improved housing and sanitation, as well as the availability of pipe borne water and electricity that have made a tremendous difference to life in the estates.



 However the most important function that contributes to their upliftment is the skills development programme. The objective of this programme is to develop self confidence and self reliance among the adolescents in the estates so that armed with the required life skills, they would become valuable investments for the future, with carefully nurtured talents and skills resulting in improved productivity, that is a vital need for Sri Lanka to maintain its competitive edge in the world tea market. 

 One example of developing skills of the next generation of estate workers was a youth camp held at the Green Hill Retreat Centre in Kotagala. Here in the picturesque surroundings, 150 young men and women in the 12-20 age group learned how to meet the challenges of day-to-day life with greater success. Among the range of skills they were infused with was decision making, with emphasis on making the right decision at the right time, overcoming impulse, aggression, procrastination, and allowing others to make the decision. 



 Problem solving was also in the agenda and the group was able to understand that unsolved problems cause mental depression. Creative thinking was encouraged and so was analytical thinking, so that the participants would be equipped to look at a situation from all angles, and make an unbiased and impartial assessment, and come to a correct conclusion, particularly when exposed to media propaganda. 



 The course modules were designed to inculcate effective communication, build interpersonal skills and develop greater awareness and understanding of emotions. These sessions helped to educate the youthful participants on healthcare, maternal and child nutrition and focussed on the prevention of teenage pregnancies, HIV/AIDS, alcohol and drug abuse, that often reach high proportions ultimately impacting on reducing the quality of life in the estates. The youth camp was also an opportunity for the young people to show off their talents in dancing, music, singing and public speaking. Similar youth camps were held in Badulla, Nuwara Eliya and Hatton with altogether over 475 estate youths benefiting from the programmes. 



 Under the auspices of the RPCs, the role played by the PHDT extends far beyond skills training to create a positive change of attitude and a better quality of life among the estate population in Sri Lanka. Underprivileged children living in a rural village in Sri Lanka can now attend school with new hope,while the youth of the village gain valuable IT knowledge thanks to a new Corporate Social Responsibility initiative of the Commercial Bank of Ceylon.

 The CSR Trust of the country's benchmark private sector bank has completed a village development project in Udawela in the Kurunegala district under which the Udawela Kumara Primary school was upgraded and two IT laboratories were built. The project initiated by the Development Credit Department of Commercial Bank was conducted under Village Development Programme of the Banks CSR Trust.



 "The objective of this scheme is to identify villages that have less opportunities for development and to assist the people by improving basic amenities thereby improve the economy in the area," the Bank's Deputy General Manager, Personal Banking, Nimal Luxman said. "The Bank plays a key role at the initial stage as a facilitator and gradually encourages the people in the village to give the leadership under the supervision of the Bank's officials." 



 The Udawela Kumara Primary school, which has classes up to grade nine is the only school located within the village. Eighty One students study in this school and a large number of village children do not attend school due to financial constraints.



 The school project included colour washing of the existing school buildings, repairing and painting desks and chairs, construction of two additional toilets, providing sports goods and shoes for the students and setting up a fully equipped IT lab with three computers and other accessories. The Bank has also organised a mobile Dental clinic to be conducted for the students. A second IT laboratory with five computers was set up at the 'Sri Sudharmaramaya, the village temple to serve school leavers. Some of the activities were carried out with the participation of the parents, teachers and students in a Shramadana campaign. 

 "The Bank will expand this project with continuous monitoring and will help this village to uplift its living standards. Other such villages will also be identified and assisted in a similar manner," said Luxshman.



 Commercial Bank's Village Development Project focused on three key areas; to financially facilitate small scale entrepreneurs who are already engaged in a particular industry to expand their business activities, to financially assist the improvement of infrastructure facilities of the village and to uplift the social wellbeing of all segments of the village community. 



 The CSR Trust of the Commercial Bank empowers communities and individuals to help them become self-reliant and independent, to motivate people, to encourage individuals to think out of box and to capture and preserve heritage and folk wisdom. The Trust commenced with a startup capital of Rs 25 million and the Bank contributes up to one per cent of its post tax profits every year towards it. Recent CSR initiatives by the Trust include granting scholarships to undergraduates, building homes for the Tsunami affected, assisting Children's Homes, donating equipment and essentials to the Colombo National Hospital, refurbishing the Dental Clinic of Deniyaya Base Hospital and repairing the path-way to Sri Pada. The CSR Trust also assisted the production of a CD and DVD on Henry Jayasena's battle with cancer with a view to educating cancer patients and their caregivers. LifeServ' (Pvt) Ltd, a pioneer in surgical devices and pharmaceutical products, recently launched Friesland Foods - the world's 3rd largest dairy manufacturer, in Sri Lanka



 Friesland Foods is a multinational organisation manufacturing and marketing a wide range of "Natural Nutrition" including high quality dairy products, fruit based drinks and ingredients. Friesland Foods' key strength is its unparalleled commitment to good health, convenience, reliability and vitality 



 Sanjaya Rekawa, CEO of LifeServ' (Pvt) Ltd says he is delighted to be the exclusive business partner of Friesland Foods in Sri Lanka. He further stated that Friesland Foods products are categorized in to three main segments, namely Main Stream Formula, Consumer Specialties and Medical Specialties. The prime focus across the board is on nutrition by age and condition.



 Sanjaya reiterated that Friesland Foods has very strong R & D backup for the latest developments and findings, using best of class ingredients which are sourced in-house with total control From Cow to the Cradle Friesland Foods enjoys a dominant position in dairy markets in over 100 countries across the globe, especially in Western and Central Europe, Middle East, West Africa, and South East Asia.



 Friso 3 – the "Growing Up Milk" together with other products from Friesland Foods, Netherlands are now available to the Sri Lankan consumer at all leading chemists, super markets and other super stores island wide. Friesland Foods together with LifeServ' are well poised to respond more dynamically and effectively to constantly accelerating trends in the nutriceuticals market, with world renowned products at a very competitive price range. The ceremony to hand letters to trainees for the professional training programmes of the second phase of 'Piya Puthu Padanama' was held by Sri Lanka Ports Authority (SLPA), at its Mahapola Training Institute on January 7, 2009 on the initiative of Minister of Port, Aviation, Irrigation and Water Management, Chamal Rajapaksa. The programme was launched with the objective of offering employment opportunities at SLPA to the children of its employees.



 Expressing his views at the occasion, the Minister said that it was a privilege to have this opportunity to offer employment opportunities at SLPA , to the sons and daughters of SLPA employees following their retirement. He also said that the late Minister Lalith Athulathmudali who pioneered training facilities at SLPA should be remembered on this occasion. Commenting further, the Minister stated that it was a rare opportunity to get employment at SLPA, and that he hoped that the SLPA would soon be able to raise its standards of development under the new Chairman who had a Doctorate on Port Sector, and became the Chairman while being a port employee as well.



 The first phase of 'Piya Puthu Padanama was limited only to technical grades while the second phase has now been offered with a broader range of multi skill development that offers training in the fields of accounting, short-hand and also typing programmes. 

 Chairman of SLPA Dr. Priyath Bandu Wickrama said that an attitudinal change was required from every employee to pave the way for an efficient service with higher productivity, as expected from an institution such as the SLPA that directly links with the international business. He added that these training programmes would be further helpful to extend and expand this message and objective throughout the port. 



 Managing Director of SLPA Capt. Nihal Keppetipola,, Executive Director Dr. Sanjaya Sedara Senarath, Director Prasanna Kalutharage, Director (Establishment).W.M.F.Wimalasuriya, Director (Human Resources).Norman Weerarathna, Divisional Heads, Executive Officers and a large number of employees of SLPA also participated at the ceremony. Evergreen - Line introduced ASX Service - Arabian Express Service to Indian Sub Continent from Colombo commencing 3rd January 2009 on weekly basis. 

 Sea Consortium is the joint partner to this service and the first vessel under the new service, namely M.V. Uni Angel of 165m LOA called at the Jaya Container (JCT) of Sri Lanka Ports Authority (SLPA) on January 3, 2009. The new weekly service is scheduled to keep calling Colombo on Saturdays, during its service rotation; Colombo - Kandla - Mundra - Karachi - Nhavashiva - Colombo. Sri Lanka's top pneumatic tyre manufacturer CEAT Sri Lanka has rewarded the best performers on the company's sales team with handsome cash prizes. 



 Six members of the CEAT sales team were rewarded with these prizes, at the annual Sales Awards event of the company.

 "This awards programme is intended to acknowledge significant contributions to the company's growth and to motivate sales personnel," Ravi Dadlani, General Manager – Sales & Marketing of CEAT-Kelani Associated Holdings (Pvt) Ltd. said. 

 The sales team was judged on sales performance, collection of dues and market improvements during 2007 and 2008.



 An ISO 9001:2000 certified company, CEAT Sri Lanka has a market share in excess of 60 per cent in the Commercial tyre segment, and the company is close to achieving market leadership in the Radial tyre segment as well. The company manufactures an extensive range of tyres for passenger busses, light trucks, trucks, cars, vans, motorcycles and three wheelers. The recipient of a National Productivity Award in the Large Scale Manufacturing category in 2007, CEAT Sri Lanka employs more than 800 people at manufacturing plants in Kalutara and Kelaniya. The company is a member of the diversified Indian conglomerate, the RPG Group. Sri Lanka's renowned and foremost IT solutions provider PC House tied up with TVS Electronics (TVS–E), a leader in the manufacturing of IT peripherals established in India, to market the TVS-E printer range in pursuit of providing the ideal printing solutions to government, banking, insurance, finance, telecom, education and retail segments.



 Head of International Sales, TVS Electronics India, E. Aravind said, "PC House was appointed by TVS Electronics taking into consideration its strong distribution channel network, spread across various spheres and the highly resourceful manpower. Our aim is mainly to address public and banking sectors where PC House has already set a firm ground with their presence in Colombo and suburbs. PC House is definitely the largest IT vendor in Sri Lanka. Since they come with a total ICT solution, we believe their appointment is going to benefit Sri Lankan clientele not only to market our printer range but also with other products like TVS computer accessories, POS systems etc".



 The new TVS-E printer prints faster than its counter parts. It also paves the way for a reduction of printing costs by 70%, allowing users to print three times more than a regular printer. Thus the entire range saves time and money. This is a rugged and reliable product with easy availability of service and spares. In addition the printer also possess a dual interface, and copy compatibility, added with high reliability, wide operating voltage and input buffer memory.



 Chairman of PC House and its subsidiary PCH Holdings, S.H.M. Rishan said, "PC House will always introduce innovative technology providing our customers with the best value for the best price. This is a pledge we have absorbed. We are leading the market in terms of distribution and greater service privileges adding value for our growing customers". 



 TVS printers come with a wide model range for different printing needs. From HD 250 Gold to super fast transaction printer is ideal for bills, receipts, Invoices and statements, coupons, delivery challans and shipping documents. TVS Speed 40 the Super Quick Universal Banking Printer is best suited for printing passbooks, bank statements, demand drafts, labels, barcodes, passports and postal books.



