NewsSupun Tharaka Nanayakkara, 13 year old student of the Lumbini Maha Vidyalaya and a promising young cricketer died at the Ragama Teaching Hospital on Monday after a period of 54 days of treatment at Kalubowila Teaching Hospital, Ragama Rehabilitation Hospital and Ragama Teaching Hospital. 



 Supun was born and bred under very gruelling circumstances, being a child of a low income family. His father Ranjan Hemantha Nanayakkara makes his living driving a three wheeler. His son's only dream was to be a top class cricketer one day. 



 Supun, was the eldest in a family of three brothers. His younger brothers are Udan Tasrutha and Chathuka Sankalpa. The young cricketer was living at Sujatha Mawatha, Pamankada with his family, and was schooling at Lumbini Maha Vidyalaya, Colombo-5.

 On October 19, Supun was admitted to the Kalubowila Teaching Hospital in a unconscious state after a leather ball struck the left side of his chest while he was at practices. He underwent treatment at the Intensive Care Unit of the Kalubowila Hospital for more than 30 days. He was transferred to the Ragama Rehabilitation Hospital due to the deterioration of his condition but after 54 days of further treatment he died at the Ragama Hospital.



 On that particular day of the accident, young Supun has been to Petersen Grounds at Wellawatte with other members of the Lumbini cricket team for practices, and he had informed his mother to send him his cricketing gear. Supun's father had been to the ground with all the essential items that Supun had asked for. By the time he reached there, the cricket team members had started practice in the absence of the coach with the assistance of a father of another student who was there with them. 



 The father had been watching the boys practice. When the parent coach hit a ball high in the air Supun had run to catch it. The ball had fallen on his chest before he could catch it knocking him unconscious. 



 Even his breathing had stopped due to the impact of the hard ball, till he was revived in the hospital with Oxygen. This delay in reviving breathing had apparently rendered much damage to his brain. As a result he was reduced to a vegetable state unable to eat, talk or stand and having to be fed through a tube. 



 On December 4, he was shifted to a normal ward from the ICU. Although his condition was better than earlier, Supun's physical organs were in an inactive state. He could not talk though he was able to listen to what was said. He was treated at Ragama Rehabilitation Hospital for two weeks but the condition of young cricketer who was deprived of many things by then was not good on January 4. Despite the doctors attempting to save his life by taking immediate steps to transfer him to Ragama T.H , Supun died on January 5 night.



 Supun Tharaka who played in the under 13 cricket team of the Lumbini Maha Vidyalaya had set a record in the school history being in the school cricket team consecutively for three years.



