Features

 The ducks of one age will become the swans of another – this is a cliché from the Relativist School of the mid 20th Century which implies that the "meaning" of phenomena is bound by time and space. Accordingly, the meanings attributed to our world are relative to their specific socio-political climates. This is not rocket science; nor is this fact escapable, under any given circumstance. 



 Today, with the north-bound advance of the governmental armed forces, the soldier has been re-defined and fetishised as "Ranaviru" the "warrior hero". Ever since the Sri Lankan government's "humanitarian war in liberating the North-East" got underway, and crucially, since the capture of Pooneryn, the "Ranaviru" image has been promoted in larger-than-life dimensions. "Ranaviru upahara" programmes, bodhi poojas, banners and cutouts celebrating the war heroes etc have, by now, become part of the scenery of a day's work. This elevation of the "war hero" has been motivated through both State-sponsored celebrations as well as by programmes initiated through non-governmental societies and organisations. 



 Under the prevailing circumstances, it is not altogether unnatural for a "soldier" to be promoted and to be hailed as a "ranaviru". As far as the State is concerned, it is running the penultimate lap of crushing the twenty five year old armed movement headed by the LTTE against the Government of Sri Lanka. Political parties within the Opposition ranks, however, egg that the "ranaviru" image and the military success of the armed forces are being exploited by the government as a political shield in order to cover their own shortcomings and inaptitude. The root of this argument locates that by unnecessarily promoting the victorious "war hero" the government calculatedly distracts the public eye from other more compelling issues of the day.



 In spite of differing takes on the current "war talk", in the final analysis of the discourse on the Lankan ethnic conflict, today, there are no "soldiers"; but "war heroes". As much as the politicians, media broadcasts and newspapers even elements of the public, in/deliberately, have now come to prefer the word "ranaviru" to "soldier". This transformation, in my view, is not too far divorced from a "militarisation" of public psyche – a recent and "happening" phenomenon in the Lankan social context, which several observers have been vocal of in numerous fora. 



 My focus, here, however, is neither on the contradictory definitions and theories to the "Ranaviru Upahara factor". Nor is it to do with the promotion of this so-defined "military psyche". I wish, however, to highlight several developments which are entailed by the "Kilinochchi euphoria" of January 2nd. Kilinochchi, the 'heart of the rebel power' was retained after a prolonged battle on this day. Several media hailed this capture by the government forces as the "blotting of Pirabaharan's dream of Eelam". 



 Today, as we read this catchy and marketable statement, it is essentially our responsibility to ponder as to why a "dream of Eelam" ever did dawn in the guise of political cessation. As much as smoke does not arise with the absence of a fire, a political movement, too, does not come of age without the feeding of an ideological base. The "dream" of Tamil Eelam, in that sense (through peaceful or aggressive means), was an amalgam of both: an ideological fire. Therefore, as the governmental forces march on, we have to re-consider our stance and re-check as to whether we have identified and analysed the catalyst of the 'Eelam dream'. Nor is this 'Pirabaharan's dream' it is not a vague fancy of an individual but a response of a consciousness: A consciousness responding to (what I prefer to see as) inter-ethnic insensitivity and ethnic marginalisation of a by gone era. Let us not forget that "war" was not an overnight development. It was the ultimate violent outburst of a complex of tensions that were gradually building up over a period of three decades. 



 In my candid opinion, we have a long way to travel in setting up the "right kind of" social and intellectual infrastructure necessary for a "peace" and amalgam of ethnicities that are estranged by a generation of war. There will be no "peace" just because the "war" is over. A definite refashioning of a "Sri Lankan Consciousness", a pluralistic, open-ended immersion of all communities is in order – but, this is merely an ideal. We are yet to show genuine planning or committed application in this direction.



 The victories of the governmental forces have, among others, fine tuned the wires of the more fundamentalist and extremist Sinhala forces in the country. The euphoria has revived an unmistakable rap of Sinhala fundamentalism – which carries a potential that can/will mar the "good" our (ideally) multi-ethnic community can extract from the said "victories". Several extremist Sinhala agents have openly pronounced the current war situation as a "victory of the Three Sinhala" – which is a rabid and crass snubbing of the Tamil, Muslim, Malay and Eurasian nationals in favour of a "superior Sinhala". 



 For instance, a group that calls themselves the "Society of the Three Hela" can be seen selling bookmarks in buses and trains that commemorate the "ranaviru" capture of Kilinochchi. The bookmarks are said to be part of a fundraiser for some programme they hope to implement in April, 2009. The bookmark selling is accompanied by a running commentary that highlights the Governmental advance on the LTTE-held territory as a victory of the "Sinhala". Among other things, the message they transmit and the ideology with which they are working are by no means functional to the retaining of inter-ethnic harmony and peace in our community – a community permeated by cultural and ethnic plurality. In fact, this is the core of the attitude that initially led to the war – the "intellectual springs" of a war of cessation.



 Crackers and sky rockets have their own entertainment value. But, from the standpoint of a serious reconciliation, I feel, we need to be more down to earth and compassionate regards our celebration. Unfortunately, our people – the majority of them – have had no instruction in plurality or multi-ethnicity. Our education does not afford our citizenry to be students of, to name a few, "peace", "reconciliation", "cultural relativism", "history" etc. We, therefore, lack the infrastructure and the awareness among the citizenry that are necessary for nation-building. In our ignorance, we celebrate the capture of Kilinochchi with crackers. Crackers are not what we need – what we require is an open-ended commitment to accept and promote environments in which all nationals will be weighed on an equal footing, with equal respect. This is, however, a programme that has to come through a naturalised process. Our education has to make a large contribute to this. But, yet,



 Sri Lanka is by far a backward country in promoting progressive and critical thinking. There is, to say the least, nothing to celebrate in the retaining of Kilinochchi. The "real" work, in that respect, has not even begun.



 As an ending note, and assuming that it may appeal to your consumer interest, the "ranaviru" bookmark is twenty rupees: just an additional ten rupees to the normal price of a bookmark sold as a fundraiser. If you're quick enough, you may also buy the "ranaviru" calendar – quite an impressive bargain, selling at rupees sixty. Now that we are almost two weeks into the New Year, my pony tailed neighbour Pancha, thinks it is time we residents seriously consider making our NEW YEAR RESOLUTIONS.



 He had been reminding us about this very important matter even before the New Year dawned. But caught up with the hectic Christmas and New Year programmes , none of us residents had any time to devote to this all important task.

 Besides, as we told him, it would take us all day to make up the list, if we were to go by his instructions.



 Pancha first asked us all to visit the nearest book shop and buy ourselves a thick monitor's exercise book each. We were to first write down each of our resolutions, and leave room for jotting down the date and even time when each of these resolutions were fulfilled. If it was a resolution that had to be kept every single day of the year and we were asked to keep a blank space for filling in the 365 days on which it was observed. 



 Once we had completed these initial tasks, Pancha summoned us to an informal meeting at Sarath's kopi kade, where he and his deputy Piyasena kindly offered to give us some guidelines with regard to these New Year resolutions. 

 Being an ardent supporter of Mahinda Chintana, and having lately taken to studying Mahinda Chintana in depth , Pancha told us that it would be an ideal foundation to kick start our list of new year resolutions.

 So, after greeting us with hands clasped, and wearing a long sleeved white shirt with a red scarf around his neck Pancha got down to the business of the day.



 High on his list of these resolutions to be followed, which he had jotted down the previous night in a new CR book containing his own New Year Resolutions, were the following programmes we were expected to adhere to throughout the year: 



 *Mathata Tiththa which meant putting a full stop to consuming alcohol. Noting the success of this particular programme, which he said was one of the most successful of the Chintana, since there had been a marked reduction in the amount of alcohol consumption in the country ever since it had been introduced, he told us to support it as much as we could. "Mata avashya karanne, ogollo vitharak nove, oyagollange lamayi, yaluwo ha sathurange uth math panne natarkarante" ("What I want you to do, is to make a resolution that not only you avoid alcohol ( and smoking) but make sure that others- your children, friends and even enemies kick this habit for good", he told us in a tone that brooked no opposition. 



 It was a tall order, but with Pancha practically breathing hell fire on us we decided to give it a try.

 *Second on the list was 'Api Vavamu, Rata Hadamu' (Let's plant and develop the nation), another very popular programme. As this only called for our collective efforts to cultivate every inch of our gardens, and thereby transform Vipulasena Mawatha into one big flourishing Home Garden, we agreed with an audible sigh of relief.

 * The third programme of his was Maga Nagemu (Road development). Our role was to make sure that no one was allowed to deliberately ill treat our roads, starting with our own lane. He warned us that anyone caught digging up the road to lay underground pipes, or some illegal connection would be severely punished and reminded us of our duty to report the matter immediately to him. 

 *The fourth was the most important of all he told us, before announcing that it was the Rata Perata ( Nation first) programme. A dedicated patriot, Pancha who was instrumental in getting all the residents to hang flags outside their homes and paste large pictures of the soldiers fighting for the cause, outside their walls, 



 reminded us that we should at all times put the interests of the nation before our own.

 Once he had given us these initial guidelines, Pancha told us we were free to jot down our own resolutions the way we wished, keeping in mind especially the underprivileged (who included children, beggars and even animals,) who he requested us to " adopt' if we could afford it. 



 He also advised the youth to engage in healthy extra curricular activities rather than taking to alcohol and drugs, and told the Senior citizens to adhere to the rules of his Keep Fit club which he had mooted for us sometime ago, and to ' Walk a Mile, Run a Mile,' daily. 

 His final piece of advice was that our resolutions should be, prayogika, kriyathmaka kala haki , ha yatavadi ( practical, workable and realistic.)



 Before adjourning the meeting, he told us he would be holding a similar meeting in a month's time at Sarath's Kopi Kade to see how far we had progressed in keeping our New Year resolution. Till then, he warned us, he would be constantly monitoring our activities.



 Pancha is a busy man these days, as he goes about his self appointed task of inspecting every new building and those underway, at Vipulasena Mawatha, and making sure the roads are in tact, and personally supervising our efforts to transform our lane into a flourishing home garden. 



 "Mage raja kariya, dina thunseeya hata paha kata siduve. Eya avasanayak natha"( My job is a 365 day job. It never ends",) he tells me with modest pride when I pass him on my way to work... The best lines of Ramayana Enter Agnad, Sagriva and Hanuman. Sagriva is of the Vanara clan the forest dwellers and Agnad his nephew. Hanuman comes as spokesman for the Vanaras. They have found Sita's jewelled hair-clip. The trail becomes clear. Sita has been taken to an island in the Mahasamund - the great Indian sea. Hanuman knows of the story of old when the first of the Vanaras [the Veddahs] were chained, dragged away by force to help build the big city by the sea... Ravana rules there now- 

 To force us dig for gold... to gild room and tower of his palace... our adversary is no mean foe. 

 Come to Mount Rishyamakha... from the top you will see his palace... like a jewel in the waters... 

 Rama takes the ring from his finger. It is embossed with the Garuda, the eagle of his dynasty, bids Hanuman go to Lanka, tell Sita that they will come soon. But he still fears the worst. 



 The women of Ravana's palace are Trijata and Kantaka, Chandanika and Mandanika. Ravana's queen and chief consort is Mandodari. Vibishana is also the brother of Ravana. Sita is held in the Asokavana, resisting the king. As Trijata says, "She's no use to anyone now ... For speak she can't... listen she won't... clad in rags and tatters." 



 Kantaka voles her disgust 

 What's the use of being a woman if she doesn't put to use what's hid between her legs? ...miserable wretch! ...this one defies all rules! 



 They melt away as Ravana and Vibishana enter, the latter with grim news. "We have caught an infiltrator lurking in the palace enclosure" A guard says it is a giant who 'jumped out of the sky, armed with a club. "Other guards come to say the giant had escaped, having destroyed Asokavana, setting the grove on fire. "We have his name Hanuman. He has found her, he shouts! and will return to settle scores!" 



 Vibishana remonstrates: "You have brought us this added trouble ... linked to this rash abduction ... all Lanka will pay, in rack and ruin" Ravana curses him. Vibishana tells of "Misrule breeding misfortune," and goes to India, leaving Ravana to blame Sita. 



 Wretch, she's to blame! ...calling down curses... I had her silenced, severing her tongue... Better to have... torn her apart limb from limb..." 



 Rama and Laksmana tried to storm the palace but were repelled. The Vanaras, many killed, refused to fight any more. Vibishana meets Hanuman and plans an attack from the north face. The assault succeeds. The Vanaras take over. Vibishana is made king. Rama severs Ravana's head, but he is also heartless. Seeing Sita in the Askoavana, he recoils. 

 Oh how changed you are, beyond anything I once knew! Oh, but you're ugly, like lamp light to a festering eye! Get out of my sight" 



 Even as Ravana's funeral pyre blazes, Sita leaps into it, ends her life. Rama swoons. Horrified men place their hands on his heart that has ceased to beat. 

 The women sing a chorus for Sita. 

 Unsung, unwept, she goes to the shores beyond this world! 

 She leaves no trace behind her, in the world of men to mourn her! 

 May the fates condone her, may the heavens above receive her!

 May she find herself a sanctuary in the heavens above, at last! 

 The sage, Narada, in his epilogue, argues. 



 This is not the Ramayana as we know it! And is that what really happened to Sita? He calls it a Kaliyuga Ramayana and explains that "In this age of uncertainty, a black reading... is well justified... mankind is seen to revert to fundamentalism and the inevitable barbarism that accompanies it, all in the name of religion and culture!" 



 These lines are the finest of all. It does not matter that the myths saw that Rama established Ram-rajya, built his Ayodhya and wed for the second time and again. How this new wife was banished to bear her children in Valmiki's hermitage where she killed herself. As he sings, "we go - returning to the land of shadows, halfway between fact and fiction ...we the creatures of your mythology..." 



 And where is Sita's sanctuary? That too, is a part of the myth. What is the better version of it all? The monkey with his fiery tail, the raping of Sita, her tongue cut off, a woman who becomes as a skulking beast, abhorred by her husband. What sanctuary can she seek in the misery that cloaks her? Only death and she burns with the king who burned for her, used her, and came to hate her. What is the new truth that Hema gives us? Now I feel it is the myth that hides its face, seeks its own sanctuary. 



 P.S. - Something repels me. Yes. Far too many exclamation marks! They keep coming, piling upon each other, like the beating of maddened drummers, too much for comfort. But I would like to see this on stage some day - naturally.



