News

 With the implementation of the 4.3% fare reduction, The National Transport Commission (NTC) has impounded 77 licences of long distance buses that failed to implement the fare reduction. 



 NTC Chairman Dr. Amal Kumarage told The Nation that these offenders would be brought to book under an approved scheme of monetary fines and cancellations with the hearing scheduled in the coming week. However, he admitted that little could be done by the Commission regarding buses that are not following the latest rate cuts, as they come under the relevant Provincial Councils of the region they are plying in. 



 "The Commission monitors the complaints that are coming from these Provincial Councils and we are happy to note that reports of offending buses have been few and far between. For example, the southern region has only had two complaints so, we are confident that relief has been passed on to the consumer," he said adding that the Western Province was "mostly under control now." 



 Nonetheless, with the revamping of route anomalies in the Western Province, many fares have not been reduced as expected. Dr. Kumarage explained that with the adjustment of around 770 routes, the fares have undergone a revision and as a result commuters are confused over the change. He insisted that the changes were essential as it protected the commuters and regularised the fares. 



 "When fares go down, the commuters are silent but the bus owners complain. When the fares increase the opposite happens. So, either way there will be disgruntled people over this. But we are duty bound to ensure that regulations are implemented and that the concerns of these two parties are balanced. So, when the fares were changed the 4.3% reduction was factored in, and in some the charges came down significantly and in others the reduction was marginal. That cannot be helped." 



 Close on the heels of the Western Province revision, will come the adjustments of the rest of the country. The project, which was initially kicked off three years ago, addressing the anomalies of 313 routes in the Western Province, looks set to be completed mid way through this year. Dr. Kumarage noted that it would be premature to predict fare fluctuations at present, but expressed confidence that the settlement of anomalies would bode well for the sector.



