News FeaturesWhat's in store for the country? 

 The beginning of the year does not seem prosperous for the country in terms of the economy. From January 7 to March 7 the country will face a dire economic crisis. This is a period where the repercussions of the global recession will be felt strongly in Sri Lanka. 



 Apart from these, political leaders will have to face strong, but undeserved allegations. They will be challenged for not managing the economy well and the public will have to endure the consequences of skyrocketing cost of living. 



 This period also demands officers in the security forces to strive very hard to gain military victories in the north and they will have to face many difficulties. This will be heightened around January 20. The war will continue to rage up north and the security forces will continue to record victories. They will continue to capture Tiger-held territories. 



 There will be a draught causing many losses in the agriculture industry. The rainfall will be very less and this will cause the farmers not to receive water on time to cultivate the lands. This economic loss will then lead to certain elements to stage a conspiracy against the government. 



 Post March 7 will be greatly advantageous to the security forces. It will give them the necessary push to completely wipe out terrorism from the country. They will capture all the lands previously held by the LTTE and free the entire north from the Tiger clutch. 



 Also, after this date, the government will receive the unconditional support of the main opposition and other opposing parties. This broad alliance will be a one that has never been seen in the country before. This will be a good sign of peace and prosperity for the country.

 However, children and the youth in the country will be in the danger of being subject to ill health. There will be a pandemic plaguing the country. The children will become ill as a result. The government then will have to spend a large amount of money on medicine. 

 Post March 10 will be extremely favourable for the education sector. There will be a considerable price reduction in education material including text books and other facilities. 

 Something valuable that comes from the earth will give immense benefits to the country. It will bring a great income and the country will prosper greatly. 

 After May 1 there will be a few changes in the cabinet. This will also be an election year, where the government will confidently go for elections. The ruling party will receive the support of the opponents and will be victorious in the coming elections.



