News

 Elections Commissioner Dayananda Dissanayake has issued a circular informing all public institutions to refrain from issuing government vehicles or state property to be used in the forthcoming election campaign, and has pledged to give a copy of the circular to each political party for their reference.



 The Elections Commissioner made this pledge when he met political party secretaries and representatives along with Police DIGs on Friday, to brief them about the election preparations.



 JVP Parliamentarian Sunil Handunnetthi who represented the party at the meeting, said that the political parties requested a copy of the circular, so that they can produce it to the Police, when making a complaint on misusing public properties in the election campaigns.



 "We also urged him to direct Police to treat everyone equally, as several incidents already occurred, especially in the Puttalam District, where a government minister attempted to violate elections laws in the presence of the Police. But at that moment the Police acted as if they did not see or hear anything," he alleged.



 He also said that the Commissioner once again highlighted the need of amending current election laws at the meeting

 "He mentioned that there was one candidate for every 3,000 voters in the forthcoming Provincial Council elections. He also said that there will be at least 500 party offices set up in each district according to the present regulations. That is because the present law allows each candidate to set up a party office in the respective area," he added.



 There are 2,247 candidates representing 99 groups which include 56 political parties and 43 independent groups.

 According to the Elections Commissioner, the OIC of each Police station has a register where political parties can request permission for holding rallies.



 "Accordingly, political parties will be served on a first come first served basis, to avoid any disparities or clashes. The Commissioner also said that a special computerised ballot paper was printed this time to avoid postal costs. According to this, voters get one ballot sheet for each family, where you can separate it according to the number of family members," Handunnetthi said.



 There are 3,408,182 voters registered for the forthcoming provincial council elections, which are to be held in 2,579 polling centres on February 14.



