Features"I love to surprise my parents. They didn't know that I had completed my degree until the day I took them to the studio to take my graduation photo!", grinned a high spirited Kingsly Ratnayake, Director General of Sirasa TV and Sirasa FM. A tough debater and an enthusiastic programme presenter, this young man dominates the TV world enrapturing audiences with many of his talents.

 The Nation caught up with Kingsly to check how he stays tuned 

Q. You are a famous media personality. Was becoming a media personality your childhood dream? 

 A. No, never! I never dreamt of it, not even in my wildest dreams. 



Q. If that is the case how did you end up here?

 A. I had a passion for debating. It is probably my enthusiastic debating ability that pushed me into where I am today. I love debating and I developed it throughout my educational career in school and Sunday school. 



 Q. How did your school impact your debating zeal? 

 A. I received part of my primary education at Thurstan College, Colombo, up to grade 5. Then I left for Ananda College – Colombo, in 1986. Entering Ananda College in 86 was a major stepping stone in my life. My college happened to be in its century celebration at that time and it was like a massive carnival, providing so many arenas to showcase all aspects of life. For me, this experience was like seeing Planet Earth in its miniature form inside my school. It had everything in it. Debaters, engineers, scientists, artists, dramatists, musicians... etc, etc. I was totally mesmerised and I decided that I should engage in many extra curricular activities as possible to capture and explore every aspect of life. Accordingly, I indulged in many societal and sporting activities. But as time went on I understood that I was a talented debater. I grew to love debating and concentrated more on that. I was the first debating member of the '86 Anandian Batch. I was President of the Debating Society at the time I left school. 



 My teams and I won lots of debating shields for our school. We had a craze to bag all possible debating shields at that time (he grinned). My final school debate was very symbolic. We had to debate against a team from Thurstan College. Most of the guys in the Thurstan cheering squads were my old classmates and friends, for I had been in that school in my younger days. I saw my old teachers seated in the audience and nodding at us as we progressed. Besides, since I knew most of my opponents personally, I knew exactly what their arguments were going to be (he grins). This was somewhat advantageous by me. We won the debate. 



Q. At school what profession did you want to choose? 

 A. I was an avid reader of science fiction at one time and I wanted to become a scientist one day. Later still, I was so in for debating, I almost wanted to become a lawyer. Even later, I actively campaigned against drugs and alcohol. I wanted to become a key figure to fight against the spread of narcotics. While in Campus, I got involved in the March for Conservation environmental society, and believe me, I developed a liking towards animals and was seriously contemplating whether I should handle serpents in future. 



 Q. How did you become a programme presenter/journalist? 

 A. Well, it was more or less an accident. I served as a member in the Galawila Muthuhara Children's Society, which was an active charity organisation, during my post A/L period. My society and two other Muthuhara societies from Polgasowita and Homagama got together to do some charity work to upgrade the Vajira Shri Children's Home in Kotte. This home housed kids from war ravaged areas. We wanted to donate books for their library and also conduct a concert. The



 Sri Lanka Rupavahini Channel provided coverage for this programme and Dr. Lalitha Siribaddana was the Muthuhara Producer at that time. However, the kid who was supposed to deliver a speech at this programme fell ill and thus I got an accidental invitation to replace him. Upon completion of my speech, the Programme producer invited me to take up a few assignments at Rupavahini. I began at the starting point – as a Kids News presenter. Later, still I was allowed to interview children, to coordinate programmes, to train children to face interviews... etc. I also got the opportunity to move with the professional staff, which shaped and moulded me a great deal. 



 I did broadcasting as a hobby in school and one of my friends forwarded my CV in response to an Yes FM advertisement. The Maharaja Broadcasting Corporation hadn't started at this time, but this advertisement was calling in nominees with the intent of commencing the broadcasting service. I wasn't that interested though, for, I had nothing in my head other than debating. But Mr. Nimal Lakshapathiarchchi called me for an interview, which was actually in response to the CV my friend had forwarded. All other people at that interview were 'high profile figures' and I simply rebuffed the idea of being selected at all. Lost interest completely, but later still I learnt that I had been short listed at that interview. Then came another turn of interviews and finally I was selected. I joined the Maharaja Broadcasting Corporation (Sirasa FM radio) in 1994 as a radio announcer. 



Q. You became popular almost overnight? 

 A. I was the first DJ of the station and Sirasa radio became very popular, and just in seven months time I was awarded the Most Popular Radio Presenter while Sirasa FM bagged the "UNDA Abhinandana" award, climbing the peak of fame. I started as an announcer, but was promoted to the position of Programme Director – Sirasa FM in 2001. 

 I was assigned to Sirasa TV in 2004. My most famous programme at that time was "Thiththa Aththa", an investigative journalism programme pursuing people engaged in illicit activities like prostitution, drug trafficking, abortions, smuggling, contract killings, cattle and dog slaughterers...etc, etc. 

 I also aired the "Radio Yaalu Sevava" over Sirasa FM which was very popular and another first of its kind programme that provided radio listeners assistance to locate their long lost friends, relatives and loved ones. Hundreds of people, local and abroad, benefited alike. 



Q. Can you tell me something about your campus life? 

 A. I studied Arts subjects for my A/Ls and entered the Faculty of Arts, University of Colombo. My major fields of study were journalism, International Relations and Sinhala. 

 In fact, continuing studies at campus was very hard for me, since I was already involved with Sirasa by the time I started my tertiary education. I missed so many exams in my first two years because the exam dates clashed with the anniversary celebrations of the broadcasting service. Anyway I managed to complete my degree and graduated in 2001 with a Degree in Bachelor of Arts. I had a passion to surprise my parents. In fact my parents didn't know that I had completed my degree until the day I took them to the studio to get my graduation photograph! 



 Q. Any memorable moments during your career? 

 A. I wanted to set a Guinness Record. Accordingly, I led the Sirasa FM to make the largest Milk Rice 'spread', a few years back as an attempt to enter the Guinness Record Book. We called this the "Raja Maha Kiribatha" and it was spread near the Victoria Park in Colombo. Was enough to feed about 35,000 people. I also managed to name an endemic orchid after our radio, as Dendrobium sirasa. That was to honour our radio channel. Also conducted an elephant pageant with 35 elephants. Further, I aired programmes from very unusual places like lighthouses, Athugala mountain top, on board ships and even out of the country. These shot our radio channel to fame worldwide. 



 Q. What's your mode of interviewing? 

 A. I believe in liberal presentation. It's a novel concept. I think the culture of framing individuals in media interviews should be changed. In interviews, I believe that interviewees should be allowed to present their ideas liberally. I wouldn't want to pin them to the wall neither whitewash them. Both extremes should be eliminated and it is more productive to occupy an intermediate position in interviewing. I believe that, even the worst criminal has allowance to change. Everyone is innocent until proven guilty. We should arrest the sin, not the sinner. 



Q. What are your special areas of interest? 

 A. Culture and religion. I am at present doing a lot to showcase our culture and also give due publicity to religious activities. I was brought up in a Buddhist background, went to Sunday school and thus I have grown to love and respect our culture and religion. I have thus focused more on them. Accordingly, Sirasa TV airs many special Bana programmes on Poya days, travel programmes and panel discussions pivoting on the above theme. As you know, at present many FM channels are accused of distorting language, particularly Sinhala and creating unhealthy trends. These critics however should also take the likes and dislikes of youth into consideration. I believe that our programmes on religion and culture balance such negative aspects levelled by various factions. 



Q. Do you have a guiding principle in life? 

 A. "Either lead, follow or get out of the way!" 



Q. Any role models? 

 A. Two people. One is Mr. H M Gunasekera, a former Director General of a well known media institute and an announcer. He was fluent in both languages and was very dignified, which awed me a great deal. Second, Sugathapala Silva, an author, radio producer and drama producer. I liked his way of thinking. Very radical. 



Q. How would you like to be remembered? 

 A. As the most outstanding TV and radio presenter in Sri Lanka and also as a trend setter. I have introduced several strategies to the media world. I hope they will be implemented as time goes by.



