News Features

 The New Year that has dawned, promises to be an economically depressing one for the world at large. The year ended with no hope in sight, only reports of more bad news of economic meltdowns, bail outs of huge companies, lay offs and unemployment. Policy makers were not quite sure of what would save their countries and in fact the world. They have turned to the remedy of the Great Depression in the 1930s, of propping up failed companies and injecting money into economies to prop up demand for goods and services. Whether these policies would work is what we will know later in the year. Meanwhile we wait in hope and perhaps in some despair as well. Economies around the world are expecting a decline in economic growth. What it would be for Sri Lanka can hardly be different.



 The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has indicated that the world is heading towards a global recession. In its latest report the (IMF) has predicted world growth could slow to 3.7 % in 2008. The indications are that economic growth may be still lower in 2009. The unfolding financial market turmoil according to the IMF is the biggest downside risk to the global economy. 



 Decline in growth is predicted for all countries. China and India–which grew at 11.4 percent and 9.2 percent, respectively, in 2007 are projected to grow at 9.3 percent and 7.9 percent, respectively, in 2008. They would grow at a much lower rate this year.



 The recession in the developed world, especially in the United States and European Union countries had already begun to show their impact on the Sri Lankan economy from the third quarter of last year, with tea and rubber prices declining from their high levels reached during the course of the year. Garment exports began declining, and the writing was on the wall that the economy was on its way to a downturn. Sri Lanka's prospects are bad not merely due to the global meltdown, but also our own mismanagement of the economy over several years. 



 Bleak

 Will there be some hope in this global and local context of economic depression? In as far as the country's exports are concerned, the prospects are indeed bleak. The recessionary conditions are likely to last the entire year and the upturn is difficult to predict. Therefore our exports of industrial products are likely to be seriously affected. Chief among the commodities that will experience lower demand would be garments that account for about one half of our exports. The reduction of orders has already resulted in factories closing down and the spectre of unemployment raising its head. Rubber and leather goods are also likely to suffer a similar fate. The reduced prices for tea and rubber would reduce agricultural export earnings as well. Therefore export earnings are likely to decline in 2009.



 Imports

 There is some hope on the side of imports. The reduced price for oil will also affect prices of fertilizer and chemicals. Since these imports account for the bulk of our imports the reduction in their prices would have an important bearing on import expenditure. In fact if oil prices continue at the low levels they are at present, or at least around US$ 50 per barrel, then it would reduce the burden on imports. There is also further relief from other import prices too. Wheat and other grain prices, as well as milk and sugar price decreases, would be an immense relief on the import bill. If import prices continue to be low, then the trade balance would show considerable improvement.



 While the trade balance has always been in deficit since 1978, capita inflows have offset this deficit to result in a balance of payments surplus. This is the expected result for even 2008 when the trade deficit is likely to be around US$ 6000 million. The main contributor to this surplus has been remittances from Sri Lankans abroad that have been adequate to finance about 45 percent of the trade deficit. In recent years these remittances have been increasing annually by around 20 percent each year. In 2009 however there are some reasons for anxiety regarding capital inflows. It is feared that the reduction in incomes in petroleum exporting countries would reduce employment opportunities in these countries, and that ages of expatriate workers would be reduced. 



 There are reasons to think that there would be a net outflow of portfolio investment. Foreign aid that has been declining may continue its downward trend, as aid giving countries try to resolve their domestic problems. Besides this, human rights issues have had an adverse impact on aid giving to Sri Lanka. In the last two years the country has relied heavily on commercial foreign borrowing. The supply, accessibility and costs of such borrowing may make it difficult to resort to such borrowing from commercial sources. While the trade balance may improve, though still in deficit, the capital account may face severe strain. With foreign exchange reserves at a low level, capital outflows likely, especially with further commitments to repay loans and other inflows likely to reduce, the balance of payments could be in difficulty this year. This could have an adverse effect on the exchange rate.



 Optimistic 

 In this context, the Central Bank is optimistic. It points to an economic growth of 6.3 per cent for the third quarter and states that, "a notable growth of 12.4 per cent was observed in the Agriculture sector, while the Industry and Services sectors expanded by 5.6 and 5.5 per cent, respectively. The overall growth during the first three quarters has been 6.5 per cent while the economy is estimated to grow by around 6 per cent in 2008. The CBSL probably estimates that growth will be at this level in 2009 as well. 



 There has been a tendency of the Government and the Central Bank to claim that the Sri Lankan economy is sound and stable and would register a good rate of economic growth, despite world developments. However developments in the past have shown that it is impossible for any country, least of all Sri Lanka to insulate herself from the effects of economic globalisation. This is more so for Sri Lanka being a trade dependent small economy. The intense competition amongst other countries of Asia for markets and profits makes Sri Lankan exports highly vulnerable. Inappropriate domestic economic policies are causing serious difficulties for industries to survive. Coping with the global recession is a staggering challenge for Sri Lanka in 2009.



