BusinessEntry to Global Big League and significance to ComBank & SL  Managing Director of Commercial Bank, Amitha Gooneratne comments on the significance and of the Bank gaining entry into the Top 1000 Banks in the World in an exclusive interview 

Q: Entering to the Ranks of Top 1000 Banks in the world is no doubt a great achievement for any Bank. But how is this list complied.

 A: The Banker Magazine of London, which is almost considered a Bible for bankers, was founded in 1926, and has been ranking the Banks of the world based on different criteria such as Assets, Tier One Capital and Profits for the past 40 years. With the increasing focus on Capital Adequacy, as the most important criteria to assess the strength and stability of a bank, since 1968, "The Banker" rankings have been based on strength of Tier One Capital. Their rankings are based on published sources and also with the feed back received from the Audited Annual Reports of commercial banks and Rating Agencies. This is carried annually and a special issue of the Magazine is published annually. All this information is also available on their website www.thebanker.com as well.



 Q: What is the significance of this great achievement on the Commercial Bank?

 A: Entering the Top 1000 is very significant not only to the Bank, but to Sri Lanka as well, because this is the first time a Sri Lankan Bank has entered the Big League of Global Banks. A strong capital adequacy signifies that a bank has the ability to absorb any unforeseen losses which are not uncommon, given the highly leveraged business of banking. A strong capital buffer helps a bank to protect depositors' funds with any losses falling primarily on shareholders, insulating and protecting depositors. 

 As a Sri Lankan Bank with a great deal of exposure to, and dealings with other countries and major international banks, our entry to the Top 1000, offers a further re-assurance to our correspondents and counterparties. 



 Q: How important is this achievement to Commercial Bank customers ?

 A: This is of great importance to our customers, particularly at a time when banks all over the world are facing a credibility crisis. Our entry to the Top 1000 and even more so at the 155th position in terms of soundness, underscores the traditional strength and stability of Commercial Bank.

 This achievement has been built up over a long period where we have always upheld principles of good corporate governance and prudent policies on lending and operational matters, always keeping us one step ahead of our competitors.

 The main significance to customers is that they have the re-assurance of dealing with a Sri Lankan Bank that knows what is best for our country and the customers but yet ranked among the global giants in banking.



Q: What is the significance of this achievement to Sri Lanka as a country and Sri Lankans in general?

 A: The significance to Sri Lanka is mainly, that for the first time, a Sri Lankan Bank has entered global rankings of banks based on capital strengths. This is a matter of pride to Sri Lanka. Being in this position, we would be able to undertake lines of financial intermediary business which are open only to the larger and stronger banks. All Sri Lankans will benefit by having a local bank with international rankings coupled with banking skills and right technology that will be always accessible to them.



Q: What other accolades has Commercial Bank won recently to re-affirm its' stability ?

 A: We were ranked "The Best Bank in Sri Lanka" for the 10th consecutive time by Global Finance of New York, which we consider a very important achievement. And we are doing everything to continue the superior performance which earned us this accolade over the last 10 years.



 We were also recently selected as "The Bank of the Year Sri Lanka" for the 7th time based on the rankings of "The Banker" - London and by the Euromoney of London.



 In addition to these main awards, there have been many other awards which we have been receiving for our Excellence in many different areas of our activities. Some of these are: the SAFA Award for Best Annual Report & Accounts – 2007 in the South Asian Region, and being among the Top 10 Companies of Sri Lanka, to name a few. 

 All these achievements only confirm our commitment to maintaining superior performance and doing everything in the best possible manner, always safeguarding the interests of all our stakeholders. 

 Nation Trust Bank Plc in partnership with SriLankan Airlines recently launched the "Sri Lankan Airlines American Express Card". 

 Speaking at the press briefing, Nation Trust Bank (NTB), Chairman, Ajith Gunawardene said that through the new partnership the clients of both SriLanka Airlines and NTB would receive an excellent service.



 Meanwhile, Sri Lankan Airlines, CEO, Manoj Gunawardene said Sri Lankan Airlines Platinum American Express card members are being offered up to 10 000 bonus FlySmiles miles with the first SriLankan ticket purchased on the card.

 "We believe that this offer would benefit our customers when looking at the current economic downturn," he said.



 American Express, Senior Vice President, Kula Kulendran said the launch of the Platinum American Express card was a new mile stone in American Express' strong success in developing best in class airline co-brand cards.

 The SriLankan Airlines Platinum American Express card offers a host of exclusive privileges and unsurpassed rewards to serve the lifestyle and travelling needs of discerning card members.



 In addition to the Platinum privileges, card members will earn up to three FlySmiles miles for every Rs.100 spent at selected Platinum merchant partners. Card members may also earn two FlySmiles miles for SriLankan Airlines tickets purchased at Platinum travel partners as well as on all purchased made overseas.



 For all other purchases, card members will earn one FlySmiles miles for every Rs.100 spent. The accumulated FlySmiles miles can be redeemed for flights on SriLankan Airlines.



 Card members will earn double FlySmiles for in flight purchases and when they book their travel online through SriLankan web site. They would also enjoy exclusive benefits such as lounge access and priority check-in in Colombo and they would be entitled for 12 kilograms of extra baggage allowance.



 From April to December 2009, the customers are entitled for a monthly draw for every Rs 10 000 spent. When a customer purchases an air ticket he or she will be automatically insured up to US Dollar 250 000 without any charges. Activities for the New Year 2009 at Lankaputhra Development Bank commenced at the auspicious hour at Colombo Office with the Chairman of the Bank, A.Sarath de Silva officiating at the ceremony. Several customers were also present. The other branches of the Bank also commenced their activities for the New Year parallel to the main ceremony. Manager of the Polonnaruwa branch Mohan Gurusinghe said that they were able to open new accounts far exceeding the target set for deposits during the first day of the New Year. Promotion of the Lakmuthu Children's Account was also launched alongside.



 Addressing the ceremony held at the Colombo branch, Chairman, A .Sarath de Silva said that the Bank was to set several new trends in 2009, providing a much more efficient speed of service to the Bank's customers. Silva said that modernisation of the computer system network of the Bank will be a major initiative under this programme. This will allow accounts to be updated from any branch while enabling customers to access many other services as well. He also outlined plans to set up new branches of the Bank at Anuradhapura, Kurunegala, Moneragala, Batticaloa and Trincomalee this year. Acting General Manager of the Bank, . Ranjith Dissanayake, Chief Operations Officer, Ravi Dassanayake and other senior management officials were present for this occasion. HSBC Sri Lanka gets new head of corporate banking HSBC has appointed Chamira P. Wijetilleke as the new Head of Corporate Banking with effect from 1 January 2009. He succeeds Trevine S A Fernandopulle, Head of Corporate Banking, HSBC Sri Lanka who was also the Deputy Chief Executive Officer, and retired after a distinguished career spanning three decades at HSBC. 



 Trevine Fernandopulle joined the HSBC Group in 1979 and has held senior management positions in many areas within the bank, including Deputy Chief Executive Officer since April 2006 and Head of Corporate Banking since February 2005. He was also Manager Credit Risk Management in HSBC Sri Lanka and Manager Corporate Banking at Saudi British Bank (an associate company of HSBC). 



 His contribution to the success of HSBC was exemplary and he helped position HSBC's Corporate banking business in Sri Lanka as a market leader. 

 Chamira P Wijetilleke joined HSBC in August 2004 with a formidable Corporate Banking background that spans fifteen years and has held senior management positions within the bank. Most recently he held the post of Head of Global Banking Sri Lanka. 

 Wijetilleke will head Global and Commercial Banking, Financial Institutions Group, Trade Services, Payments and Cash Management and Custody and Clearing businesses. LOLC selects Oracle to support its new projects LOLC (Lanka Orix Leasing Company PLC), Sri Lanka's pioneering leasing organisation has selected the Oracle E-Business Suite including financial management, inventory management and purchasing modules to support it's new project 'Insights' across the entire group. The applications will help LOLC meet demands of its back office expansion and it's information management requirements. It will enhance business and employee productivity, provide timely management of assets and liabilities through appropriate decision-making tools and also help create a paperless office. Through the 'Insights' project LOLC will increase disclosure and transparency for regulations and information for all stakeholders. This project is being managed by Lanka Orix Information Technology (LOIT). The Lanka ORIX Leasing Company PLC (LOLC), Lanka Orix Information Technology (LOIT) PLC and Oracle Sri Lanka teams at the "INSIGHTS" project launch at Waters Edge. Eagle Insurance PLC recently connected to a superior total voice communications solution provided by Dialog Enterprise. Dialog Enterprise, an integrated business division of Dialog Telekom PLC, has provided Dialog7 Fixed Voice Solutions with state-of-the-art communication facilities at the Eagle Insurance's Head Office thus enhancing service delivery.

 This solution provides a speedier and cost effective answer to all outgoing calls taken by staff at Eagle Insurance's Head Office in Colombo to all mobile numbers via the Company's fixed lines.



 Besides boosting Eagle Insurance's communication facilities, the solution has already drastically reduced the cost of calls to mobile numbers substantially. In real terms, this translates to more than 30% overall drop in the billing cost, thus exemplifying the ideal challenge for Dialog Enterprise to demonstrate its capability to deliver totally cost effective fixed mobile integrated connectivity solutions for Sri Lankan enterprises.



 CEO Dialog Fixed Telephony and Broadband Services Kavan Ratnayaka said, "This is yet another triumph for Dialog Fixed Line CDMA Telephony and our ability to cater to the changing demands of our customers. We are firmly convinced that our advanced technology resources enable us to meet these diverse demands. We are undoubtedly very happy to partner Eagle Insurance on this project, and are positive that our ICT solutions will not only deliver value results to its thousands of customers, but also be totally cost effective in the long run".



 Managing Director Eagle Insurance PLC, Deepal Sooriyaraachchi said, "We are certainly very glad to have selected Dialog Enterprise as our technology partner for this project. A very cost effective, yet totally technically superior solution is probably the wish of any corporate in this day and age in Sri Lanka. We have found both these in Dialog's ICT solutions, and this will definitely enhance our information communication infrastructure facilities and contribute towards achieving our corporate objectives."



 Dialog Enterprise offers seamless fixed and mobile connectivity solutions to large, medium, and small enterprise customers. Its multi sensory connectivity and ICT solution offerings help Sri Lankan enterprises improve their competitiveness and gain profitability through productivity and cost savings. BoC allocates 1% of new ecruitments for handicapped youth The Bank of Ceylon management has decided to allocate one percent of the new recruitments to the Bank staff for handicapped youths. S M D B Samarakoon a selected trainee staff assistant, is seen here receiving his appointment letter from the Chairman BoC Dr Gamini Wickramasinghe .

 Sam Samarasinghe Deputy General Manager (Product and Development Banking) M Kiritharan Chief Legal Officer, Saliya Rajakaruna Chief Financial Officer, H M A B Weerasekera Deputy General Manager (International and Treasury), K Dharmasiri Deputy General Manager (Inspection and Audit) W K H Wegapitiya Chairman Laugfs gas Company are also in the picture Sanasa Development Bank (SDBL) recently opened its 45th branch ceremoniously at Angunakolapalessa. Here Mrs. Kiriwandeniya , Nimal J.B. Mamaduwa GM /CEO SDBL and Sunimal Fernando DGM - SDBL were also present



