BusinessThe Finance Companies need to be protected as much as the commercial banks 

 During the financial crisis of 1997 a Korean Bank was faced a run by its depositors. Long queues of depositors formed outside the bank to withdraw money. Along came a group of depositors carrying heavy bags. When the crowd inquired from what the bags contained they said they brought money to deposit in the bank. Slowly the crowd melted away. 



 A similar run started in the Golden Key Credit Co. According to reports the CEO seems to have misjudged the risk exposure and failed to manage them properly. One story we heard is that a depositor who deposited Rs 1 million was issued a credit card with a limit of Rs 2 million. He had promptly bought jewellery for the full limit and defaulted on both the loan and the interest. The Central Bank should carry out an investigation for we suspect that few Chief Executives understand the risk exposures of their business operations and fewer still can profile them and have risk management procedures in place. There are plenty of 'pothe guras' to lecture on Risk Management but few of them have any experience in doing so. This is the common occurrence in a country where qualifications matter a lot but not experience. 



 Similar runs have spread to other Finance Companies including some well established ones with strong balance sheets. People have lost confidence in financial institutions and are rushing with their money to be deposited with the National Savings Bank merely to safeguard their capital and even accepting much lower rates of interest. But this is unfortunate for the government financial institutions serve only the government and the public sector. The private savers and the privately owned Finance Companies are necessary for the survival of the private sector businesses. These financial institutions of the private sector must be safeguarded and protected not as an end in itself but for the role they play in the mobilisation and channeling of the savings of the community. 



 Our banks have never paid a fair rate of interest on savings and fixed deposits. Hence the savers have deposited their savings with the Finance Companies, registered with the Central Bank. These financial institutions have to be protected if there is any meaning in their registration with the Central Bank. The people's savings have also to be protected. The nature of financial business is such that neither a bank nor any other financial institutions can refund all deposits in cash at any one time. But this does not mean they are bankrupt. It is the nature of such business for the institutions to hold cash or near cash called liquid resources only to cope with the usual run of withdrawals. 



 They make money only by minimising their holdings of liquid assets and investing the balance funds in more remunerative but less liquid assets. One Finance Company which faced a run last week has closed for 3 days, perhaps because it has run short of liquid assets. Whatever is the reason it is a bad signal and calls for action by the Central Bank before more damage is done. Britain was faced with the same problem of runs on the banks and connected financial institutions like the Building Societies there which are roughly equivalent to our own finance companies. The British government gave a guarantee on all deposits with such institutions. So it is necessary for our Finance Companies to have access to the Central Bank as a lender of last resort. 



 The tradition according to textbooks is for the Central Bank to act as a lender of last resort only to the banks. But this present crisis in the developed countries has shown how the Bank of England and the Fed in USA have bent backwards to bail out not only the usual commercial banks but even Investment banks like Meryl Lynch. So the Central bank must not be tied down by tradition. Even our primary dealers in the bond market have not been given access to the Repo and Reverse Repo windows of the Central Bank unlike in UK and USA. Of course the facility is only against government securities. But some countries have even lent against commercial bills of exchange and trade credits. The Central Bank must extend its role as a lender of last resort to the finance companies too if the financial institutions and the financial system is to be rescued.



 The Central Bank acted promptly in dispelling the doubts of the public regarding the Seylan Bank. This bank has a net asset value of over Rs 40 bn according to the books. But all assets are not liquid and it is from that fact that the problems arise. The Central Bank has vested its management in the Bank of Ceylon. But this should only be a temporary situation. A proper investigation should be carried out and the bank restored to its previous shareholders. It is good that its shares are allowed to be traded on the stock market. Offers should be called to sell the bank if the Central Bank thinks the bank has been mismanaged. Mismanagement is not in the usual sense of corruption or inefficiency but rather failure in risk is a common failure in local financial business. What is required is for the Central bank to examine whether the Finance Companies are adequately capitalized and whether they have adequately dealt with their risk management. Are they exposed too much to the leasing business for motor vehicles or to land purchase apartment building funding and what is the prudent rule regarding asset classification and risk exposure. Everyone has to hold his savings in financial institutions to earn a return and it is the duty of the Central Bank to see that these institutions manage their risks prudently. Role of US in the economic recession Nations of the world must encourage a US President to use Order No:11110 and issue a dollar from a Government institution as do other Central Banks of the world. Or alternatively, the world will need another medium of account for trade, investment, travel and other international exchanges... 

 

 Several heads of state have drawn attention to the need for an international conference to keep the current recession from harming trade, travel and other ties and relationships essential to the nations of the world.

 In consequence, in November 2008, US President George Bush invited twenty country representatives to Washington. At the G20 meeting he declared that reform must be based on the following: Free trade and free people.

 The host President succeeded in halting international agenda for reform.



 His administration therefore continues with its own agenda that runs at odds with its slogans:

 1. It can intervene in the US economy by bailing out banks

 2. It can continue to get Europe and Japan to bail out US corporate citizens ─ directly

 3. It can intervene to transfer costs of bail outs to the entire world's population ─ indirectly

 4. It can continue stimulating private US defence industry through wars such as those of Yugoslavia, Iraq and Afghanistan

 5. It can send US citizens into areas that put them at risk of their lives, in overseas combat that takes the lives of others as well.



 Slogans

 Why does the US put out slogans on non-intervention by governments?

 In 'TRANSCEND' journal of Sept. 18, 2003, elderly Johan Galtung, the Scandinavian also known as 'Professor of Peace Studies', attributed these words to a planner in the Pentagon:

 "The de facto role of the United States Armed Forces will be to keep the world safe for our economy and open to our cultural assault. To those ends, we will do a fair amount of killing". 

 At a talk that Johann Galtung gave in Sri Lanka in January 2007, he remarked that Britishers fancy the word "United." Galtung provided the examples "United Kingdom" and "Manchester United." That goes for "United States" too.

 The US sloganeering for Free Trade fits in the label "cultural assault" of the Pentagon planner. Speaking in more detail, the assault amounts to psychological warfare waged against other nations to place their citizens at odds with each other.

 It emerged as a nominal religion blended with nominal economics in 1976. Surprised US journalists called it 'Voodoo Economics.' In the early phase the association with some sort of religion was detected because it had not overwhelmed media.



 TO SEED DISUNITY

 The cultural assault intended to break down social harmony using megalomania of self-infinitisation. On the hidden side of the coin of 'Freedom of Choice' of the Monetarists was the trivialisation of society and one's neighbour. It was in this light that Margaret Thatcher as British PM was led to claim, "There's no such thing as society."

 This strain of psychological warfare leads directly to cult priestess Ayn Rand. She prepared a script for us in her 1937 book that she expressly labelled 'Anthem' ─

 "And now I see the face of god, and I raise this 

 god over the earth, this god whom men have 

 sought since men came into being, this 

 god who will grant them joy and peace 

 and pride. This god, this 

 one word: 

 I."

 A nation so targetted would lose social harmony. The loss of social solidarity would make that nation submit to the menu of powerful corporate citizens. Friction in the targetted nation would endanger its cohesion. Opportunism in the work place would disrupt innovation and productivity. Facing hardship, the nation would be forced to the houses of finance capital to obtain loans ─ and pay interest.



 Fundamentalist religion and fundamentalist economics sold loans from the moneychangers. For themselves, the cynical promoters of this psychological assault formed an invincible cabal among themselves.



 Alan Greenspan served as a part-time New York jazz player, who joined the Saturday evening company that sank into soft green leather upholstery at Ayn Rand's New York apartment, to dip into wine and conversation. In the fullness of time this saw Greenspan to the post of Chairman of the US Federal Reserve. Ayn Rand had first introduced Greenspan to President Nixon and a note in 'Salon' magazine observed:



 Only in America could so much power and prestige be given to someone who was a major fan of Ayn Rand and her cult of "Objectivism," which she summed up as "enlightened selfishness..."

 For Objectivists like Greenspan no price (if paid by others) is too much to stop inflation.

 For example, he reportedly is a staunch atheist, but that did not stop him taking an oath on the Talmud (held by his aged Mum) to become chairman of Nixon's Council of Economic Advisors, while his prophetess Ayn Rand beamed away in the front row.

 [http://dir.salon.com/story/news/feature/2000/01/10/greenspan/index.html]



 Zombie economics

 Another person writes a note on Great Communicator Ronald Reagan whose Presidency incepted in 1976 the worldwide broadcast of Zombie Economics, the religious and economic simplification:

 I'm starting to think politicians should use Ronald Reagan's strategy of rarely going to church personally but professing to be born again. It's the only safe option.



 [http://usreligion.blogspot.com/2008/09/sarah-palins-jeremiah-wright.html]

 With Voodoo Economics, corporate citizens such as Goldman Sachs, J P Morgan and Citibank became still more bloated as they towered over ordinary US citizens. We find that Voodoo Economics promoted the financial corporates by removing the regulation that was intended to keep their activity from overwhelming the nation. They could achieve de-regulation because they serve as key financiers of US Presidential candidates at election time. Both Republican and Democratic legislators must hear them out. 



 Neocon militarism fails to bind

 US citizens, over the years, have tended to step back on election day. This in effect chooses a scoop of ice cream; take your pick of vanilla or chocolate. Either of the two Presidential candidates may send young Americans into overseas battles. Is this the anticipated peace dividend after the end of the Cold War?

 As we see today, a neoconservative militarism would supply the jingoism to keep Americans united in serving as cannon fodder. They have been going out willy-nilly during the last ten years mostly to help Anglo-American financial capital to keep petroleum on the side of the dollar and away from the Euro.



 On March 28, 1999, Thomas Friedman, the editorial voice of the "New York Times" wrapped this up on the militarism: 

 "For globalism to work, America can't be afraid to act like the almighty superpower that it is ... The hidden hand of the market will never work without a hidden fist - McDonald's cannot flourish without McDonnell Douglas, the designer of the F-15. And the hidden fist that keeps the world safe for Silicon Valley's technologies is called the United States Army, Air Force, Navy and Marine Corps."



 In April 2005 the 'Asia Times' published this researcher's article "Modern economics' anti-business missile". I suggested that the psychological warfare would hit business in the US too. The model would lead opportunists to dry up the river of economic plenty. I explained with an analogy based on a Sinhala song:

 Droplets of water unite - 

 A river is formed.

 If that is possible, then this is also logical:

 Droplets disperse - 

 The river runs dry.

 Despite militarist jingoism, the megalomania of Voodoo Economics did come home to roost. It hit not only the Dot.Coms and Enron. What is sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander.



 Droves of executives went into placing bets on future harvests of wheat, rice, sugar and other everyday essentials. The huge betting on futures influenced current prices in the world. At the same time, the state military intervention by the US for Iraq's petroleum sent at-the-pump fuel prices in the US up ─ and in countries around the world. The increase of fuel costs drove up the prices of essentials still more.



 The financial sector had gone in for a spree of consumerist advertising to lure US citizens to draw on credit cards at maximum rates of interest. Credit card debt interacted with scams such as the shaky house mortgages schemes ─ that had been dreamt up with the default on loans by borrowers to be paid for by US state intervention.



 As jobs are lost around the world ─ as part and parcel of the meltdown ─ we will see the sloganeering of "Free Markets" giving way to more state intervention. If reform is kept off the boards as happened at the G20 November meeting in Washington, intervention by the White House can only hope to stoke more resources of the population of the US and of the whole world into furnaces of doom. 



 Conflict of interest

 US Secretary of Finance Henry Paulson says that he sees no one-shot solution. Paulson was a longtime associate of private banker Goldman Sachs and he is in a bold and (now) traditional conflict of interest in a public finance post. Previously, President Bill Clinton's Robert Rubin was an associate of the same financial corporate. Lawrence Summers, Obama's recent choice for head of his White House economic council, served as advisor to the same vulture capitalist firm.

 Ending such conflict of interest must consider the paramount union of private banks that is called the US Federal Reserve System. It issues US dollars on the orders of the Treasury Secretary, in the case of Paulson or Rubin epitomising insider trading.



 Saga

 The saga began across the Atlantic in 1946 when a Labour government decided to nationalise the Bank of England. The banking clan in the 1-square-mile financial city of London drew back the Pound Sterling and promoted the US dollar instead as international currency because it was still private issue in the hands of its US subsidiaries. Through the US Federal Reserve as proxy, a global casino using printed paper tokens could still be run by London's financiers.



 Newspaper 'USA TODAY' of Dec 5, 2006 provided this good news for London's parent financial clan ─

 "While New York remains the world's largest urban economy, its wealth is founded on domestic business; experts say London has already stolen back its crown as the premier international financial market."



 However, regaining the crown provided no more than Pyrrhic victory. One year after the gushing report on London, by December 2007 the recession began to seep into the UK, USA and the world.

 Goldman Sachs' trainees and allies fail to notice a hygiene factor essential to reform.



 Solutions

 It has been said, "What you don't see kills you."

 The primary and preventive hygiene factor concerns the issue of the dollar. It is NOT issued by an accountable Government Central Bank as elsewhere in the world. The dollar is a paper token issued by a union of private banks in a high-level conflict of interest in relation to public finance. These private banks speed the US to doomsday. 



 In the early 1960's President John F Kennedy and his Canadian-born economics advisor J K Galbraith spotted where the banks would head. In consequence, President Kennedy signed into force on June 4, 1963, Executive Order No: 11110. This order authorised the Treasury to issue a dollar backed with silver. Five months after he signed the order President Kennedy was shot. 

 However, the Presidential Order is in force and its use by succeeding Presidents would have prevented the US from running up the astounding $10 trillion public debt that arose principally after Kennedy's death.



 The issue of the Treasury dollar as a stable global reserve currency has been set aside for too long. The voices of nations of the world must encourage a US President to use Order No:11110 and issue a dollar from a Government institution as do other Central Banks of the world.

 In the alternative, if the US must not culminate in a Black Hole, the world will need another medium of account for trade, investment, travel and other international exchanges.



