News Features"He was feared by those fraudulent and corrupt" It was on the American Independence Day celebrations on July 4, 1995, that I first met Lasantha. Immediately thereafter, I believe at the behest of interested and affected parties, there was a series of two-page articles published in The Sunday Leader for nearly eight weeks on the Hilton Settlement signed in June 1995. 



 I simply ignored what was written, though they were erroneous and misleading. One day, Lasantha turned-up in my office, without any intimation, with a person well known to me. We had a very warm and friendly chat. I did not refer at all to such articles or ask why he wrote, without checking on the facts with me. My such silence and cordiality, I believe had an impact on Lasantha, resulting in him writing and publishing on his own volition, another series of two-page articles over 10 weeks, clearing any misimpressions caused in the public domain by his previous articles. 



 Thereafter, on another day, Lasantha came to see me, and somehow persuaded me to write articles in the form of investigative journalism on questionable and dubious transactions, and on the subject of combating fraud and corruption in our country. Lasantha, himself, gave the pseudonym 'Bismark' for the articles. The articles were written by me on some of the most scandalous transactions in the privatisation process, which has completely eroded public confidence in privatisation in our country, to the detriment of the economic development of our country. 



 I wrote the articles, without a break on a single Sunday, continuously for nearly two and a half years, providing Lasantha articles in advance when I was to be overseas. Lasantha repeatedly encouraged me, and confirmed that the articles were well received by the reading public. In fact, there were many occasions the articles received written commendations. None of the facts in the articles were ever disputed or challenged by those persons involved, who had been transparently named. Lasantha never edited a single word of those articles, even though they sometimes concerned persons, he knew and associated with, both politically and otherwise. As a tribute to Lasantha, these articles ought to be made available in the public domain. 



 I owe it to Lasantha's encouragement and persuasion, which not only developed my communicative writing skills, but more importantly, it compelled me to study, examine and develop an intimate knowledge of the most dubious, scandalous, and some fraudulent, transactions perpetrated in our country, jeopardizing public interest. Lasantha fully endorsed what was written. The articles exposing fraud and corruption had no political undertones, whatsoever, and affected the entire political spectrum, as was endorsed by Lasantha. In fact, having ascertained my identity, late Gamini Jayasuriya invited me to commend me on an article written on the 50 years of our country's independence, on the socio-political and socio-economic mismanagement of our country. 

 Lasantha was an amazing person, with grit and courage. He bore no malice, and at the most was mischievous. He had the ability not only to write in the most incisive manner condemning fraudulent and corrupt transactions and those involved, whilst at the same time subsequently taking up the cause of those very persons, and defending their interests, thereby amply demonstrating that he did not bear personal or permanent grudges. 



 He was committed to write without fear or favour, what he believed was right, whether or not it affected persons, he knew or did not know. To him it was a passion to write in the public interest to combat fraud and corruption. Though many may have not agreed with some of his writings, it has to be conceded, that he had the fearless courage to write and publish, for which he has paid dearly with his life. If ever there was a journalist in our country, feared by those fraudulent and corrupt of exposure, it was Lasantha.



