NewsUN demands action from govt. over incidents in east The United Nations Refugee Agency has asked the Sri Lankan Government to ensure security for civilians in the east, citing a significant increase in the number of killings, abductions and injuries, including the death of 24 civilians recorded in November alone in the Batticaloa District. 



 Human Rights Ministry Secretary Prof. Rajiva Wijesinha in response told The Nation that a special report into the killings had been requested from both the Police and the Army. The document is expected to be handed over early this week. He noted that the government was fully conscious of the situation, and as a result had requested an additional report from the Army as well as the normal procedure from Police. 



 "The report is expected to be sent to Colombo next week," he said, adding that November was a month when tensions were high in the east, but that the situation has calmed down in the intervening time. He insisted that this spate of killings would not have an affect on the resettlement and that the government would keep a strict eye on the procedures in place for monitoring the internally displaced. 



 "We are also worried about the negative impact these security incidents may have on the sustainability of the return process," a spokesperson for the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), Ron Redmond, told in a statement.



 Most of the more than 200,000 people displaced during fighting between government forces and the LTTE in the eastern Districts of Trincomalee and Batticaloa have returned home over the past two years. 

 However, returnees in the Batticaloa area report they increasingly feel intimidated and face restrictions on their movement, Redmond said. 



 "More than 50 families have already left their villages in some of the return areas in Batticaloa, due to fear and insecurity. Others are no longer sleeping in their own homes, but gather several families in one house at night," he said. UNHCR called on the government to investigate the security incidents and urged it to provide adequate security to all civilians living in these areas. 

 It was also concerned about the abduction of four refugee returnees from India in the Trincomalee District. 



 "UNHCR is heartened by the fact that more than 1,500 Sri Lankan refugees returned from camps in Tamil Nadu in southern India in 2008, either spontaneously or with our facilitated voluntary return programme," said Redmond. "We are keen to see this positive trend continue this year." 

 UNHCR is also keeping a close eye on the situation in the country's north, where some 250,000 people remain displaced due to intensified clashes in recent months. (UJ)



