BusinessDiamond Club, the exclusive loyalty club of Aitken Spence Hotels, announces its newest promotion, an offer which will captivate its members irrespective of their age. The promotion, launched on January 12, 2009 will offer Diamond Club members staying at Aitken Spence Hotels or Heritance Hotels & Resorts on their birthdays, a discount on their room bill equal to the members' age. 

 In keeping with the Diamond Club tag line "Welcome to a world of extended privileges," this offer is valid exclusive to Diamond Club members at Aitken Spence Hotels and Heritance Hotels & Resorts in Sri Lanka. 



 "If you are celebrating your 60th birthday at one of our hotels, you are entitled to receive a 60% discount on your room rate. This is our way of thanking our loyal members and what better way to say it than this" said Manager Public Relations and Promotions for Aitken Spence Hotels, Renusha Gomis. 



 Diamond Club, launched in April 2008, consists of an elite member base, and exclusive promotions will be one of the many privileges offered to its loyal members. Membership can be obtained by spending a minimum of Rs.10,000 at any one of the Aitken Spence Hotels or Heritance Hotels & Resorts in Sri Lanka. Alternatively you can also pay Rs.10,000 at the Head Office and obtain membership. 



 Exclusive privileges granted to Diamond Club Members include redemption of points on future bookings, free stay against reward points at any of the Heritance Hotels and Resorts and Aitken Spence Hotels in Sri Lanka, room upgrades against reward points, special recognition to all members at the hotel, purchase of gift vouchers against reward points and the ability to make priority reservations. 



 In addition, the Diamond Club's website www.diamondclub.lk allows members to log in and monitor guests' stays, points earned and redeemed, update personal info and view special offers as well. This interactive website is inter-linked with the terminals at the various hotels thus enabling the online updating of member information. 



 Diamond Club is the only such hospitality loyalty club in Sri Lanka. Aitken Spence Hotels' expertise in hotel design, building and management is complimented by its dedication and commitment to excellence. The resort operator has continuously set industry benchmarks and has received an array of international awards for high quality cuisine, service excellence, building conservation and environmental care at their hotels. Cathay Pacific Sri Lanka rewarded their agents who achieved outstanding performance when it comes to ticketing to China, by whisking them away for an unforgettable 8-day visit to the China International Travel Mart in late November. The tour helped to strengthen the business relationship with the agents by giving them a first hand experience of China. It also helped to promote China as a holiday destination and establish tour packages to the mainland. 



 The agents who participated in the tour were Hasitha Peiris from Aitken Spence Overseas Travels, Rodzia Wijemanne from Gabo Travels, Dilshan Godfred from Classic Travels and Fiona Ziegelaar from Hemas Travels. They were accompanied by Cathay's Passenger Sales Supervisor Pravinth Thavarajatheepan. 



 The group visited the Zhou Zhuang of Jiang Su Province that has a long history of building wooden boats, the famous Su Zhou gardens with its museum and Buddha statue and experienced a night tour of Hao River as well as the Museum of reckoning and the Tian Ning Temple in Chang Zhou. 



 "The familiarization tour was a memorable experience for our agents who were successful in promoting China although they have never visited the country before .They successfully sold the wonders that the mainland offered to our discerning passengers thus they certainly deserved to see China for themselves, and Cathay is pleased to extend the opportunity" said Passenger Sales & Marketing Manager, Cathay Pacific Sri Lanka, Ms Ruhan Abbas. Dazzling Dubai hosts its 13th Dubai Shopping Festival (DSF) from January 15 to February 15, and key sponsor Emirates is offering shopaholic leisure seekers an opportunity to be there for as little as US $ 55 a night.

 The award-winning Dubai-based international airline has unveiled new three-night accommodation packages for the world's biggest shopping extravaganza, at a choice of 20 selected hotels during the month-long extravaganza.



 Easily the finest festive experience in the region, the DSF attracts hundreds of thousands of visitors from around the world who are drawn by its emphasis on exclusive world-class shopping and great family entertainment.



 Emirates Sales Manager in Sri Lanka, Devika Ellapola said: "The sheer size, scope and flair of the DSF is phenomenal. We understand that DSF 2009 will be even bigger and better than before. This is a great opportunity for Sri Lankans to experience a world class event at amazing value for money prices."



 The accommodation packages provide Emirates passengers on all classes of travel with a choice of accommodation to suit all pockets, and are for a minimum stay of three nights with the option to extend. The price includes breakfast and personalised meet-and-assist on arrival. All accommodation-related taxes and service charges are also included. 

 Visitors also receive an Arabian Adventures Welcome Pack with Privilege Discount Card and an additional baggage allowance of 10 kg on their return or onward flights from Dubai. For onward-bound passengers breaking journey in Dubai to experience the DSF, stopover charges will be waived.



 To be eligible for these packages, all travel must be on Emirates-operated flights.

 Besides the incredible shopping bargains that have made it famous, the DSF hosts the world's biggest gold raffle, the world's richest luxury car raffle and many other opportunities for the thousands of visitors to win fantastic prizes. The entire city takes on a carnival atmosphere, with plenty of entertainment and things to do for the entire family.



 Emirates, which has been a major contributor to the success of the DSF since its launch in 1996, operates 17 services a week between Colombo and Dubai. Emirates, the award winning Dubai based international airline has commenced the New Year with an irresistible accommodation offer for its passengers to San Francisco. 

 Passengers on Emirates' super-luxury First Class to San Francisco from 1st of January 1, 2009 to March 31, 2009 will receive two nights' free accommodation in a California King Room at Campton Place, a five star hotel in San Francisco. Business Class passengers during the same period will get one night's free accommodation at the same hotel.



 This offer is valid for passengers holding return tickets who have booked travel on or after December 22, 2008 and is on a room only basis. Free accommodation is subject to availability at the time of booking and will be made available on a first come first served basis.



 "This is yet another tempting offer from Emirates," Emirates Sales Manager in Sri Lanka Devika Ellepola said. "Campton Place has been a sanctuary for sophisticates and discerning business travellers visiting San Francisco and our passengers will enjoy a delightful time there."



 The offer includes room, taxes and service charges. Up to three adults can share one room and two children under 16 years of age can share existing bedding in the parents' room. The hotel will permit passengers booked on this offer to check-in by 15:00 hrs. and check-out by 12:00 hrs.



 Emirates launched non-stop services between Dubai and San Francisco on December 15, 2008. The airline has deployed the state-of-the-art Boeing 777-200LR, one of the most fuel-efficient aircraft operating today on this route.

 Emirates' Boeing 777-200LR offers 226 seats in a three-class configuration and provides up to ten tons of cargo capacity. The airline operates non-stop flights between San Francisco and Dubai three times a week – on Mondays, Thursdays and Saturdays.



 With 110 rooms, Campton Place hotel has a distinctive boutique ambience. A historic site, the hotel marries two early twentieth century buildings and has a classical European charm. Located along Stockton Street, on the prestigious Union Square, this serene retreat is a short distance from the financial district, premier art galleries, renowned museums and the city's best known stores and restaurants.



