SportsIndia opener Gautam Gambhir said last year's Sri Lanka tour rejuvenated his career and helped him cement his place in the Indian Test team. 

 Gambhir had been a regular for India in the One-dayers and Twenty20 format but his Test spot was not secured before the Sri Lanka tour in July-August last year. 



 In that three-match Test series which India lost 1-2 he became the second highest run-getter behind his opening partner Virender Sehwag, amassing 310 runs, and he felt that performance cemented his place in the Test team. 

 Gambhir said negotiating the deadly Sri Lankan spin duo of Muthiah Muralitharan and Ajantha Mendis had instilled confidence in him that he was a Test material. 



 "I feel that turning point in my career was the Sri Lanka tour. I was the second highest run scorer for India, after Veeru (Sehwag). The way I faced Murali and Mendis gave me confidence and with that I felt that I could play well in Test cricket also," Gambhir said. 



 "I was playing well in One-day cricket. So I was thinking that even if I won't prove myself in Test matches, at least my place is fixed in the ODI team," he added. 

 The year 2008 witnessed a rejuvenated Gambhir as the left-hander made his transition from shorter version of the game to Tests. He accumulated 1,134 runs from just eight Tests last year, thereby ending the debate over his ability to carry his limited-over form into the Test arena. 



 Calling himself a team-man, Gambhir said pressure doesn't have any negative affect on his game. 

 "Pressure is a gift of god, this is a part of profession. For me initially it was playing for the team, then it was for establishing me as a part of team. Now it is for winning and getting success for the team. Pressure is a part of game; it will always remain the same," he said. 



 "I m not playing just to survive in the team but playing for the team. I always focus on the game; that is the only reason why Veeru and I are being noticed. Our mind is set for the game. My ultimate goal is to see my country at the no.1 position." Gambhir said. 

 The aggressive opener, however, rued that missing out on a berth in the Caribbean World Cup team in 2007 was the worst moment of his career till date. 



 He admitted that his personality has also transformed. "Those days I was very reserved and spoke very less but now it is not like that. I have completely changed myself." – [PTI] All rounder Romesh Eranga (34 and 5/41 & 4/66) put up a solid performance to steer BRC to their third outright win by nine wickets over Lankan CC in a Premier Tier 'B' match at Havelock Park yesterday. BRC resuming at 135-7 went onto to make 241 in their first innings in reply to Lankan CC's 137. Leg-spinner followed his five wickets in the first innings with four in the second to restrict Lankan CC to 146. Pubudu Ranaweera (62) and Tharaka Silva (23) made vain efforts to withstand the bowling attack of BRC powered by Eranga, Marlon Madhushanka (2/31) and Demuwan Fernando (2/23). BRC were left with a target of 43 runs and scored 47 losing a wicket. 



 Left-hander Kasun Bodhisha scored a fluent 179 to take Saracens to a strong position at 352-5 against Panadura SC at the Panadura Esplanade. Panadura SC made 184 in their first innings. Police were desperately fighting for salvage their match against Seeduwa/Raddoluwa CC at Police Park. They had two wickets in hand and trailed by 54 runs from a certain innings defeat. Seeduwa/Raddoluwa having passed the first innings score made by Police (129) went on to total 321 with Tharaka Waduge (127) scoring a century. Right-arm seamer Dinesh de Silva who claimed 4/37 in the Police's first essay returned with 6/36 for Seeduwa/Raddoluwa. 



 Left-arm pacie Neville Liyanage captured 7/36 to have the Airmen in trouble when they were shot out for 99 in reply to Singha SC's 155 at Maitland Crescent. Singha SC scored 236 in their second innings. Air Force were 48-1 at close. Bottom seeded Sebastianites returned to action with a strong total against Moratuwa SC at De Zoysa Stadium. Sebastianites declared at 410-4 following hundreds from Kelum Fernando (101) and Bradman Ediriweera (101). Moratuwa SC were badly placed at 127-6 at close of play. All matches will resume play at 10.00am today. At Havelock Park: Lankan CC 137 and 146 (37.3) (Tharaka Silva 23, Pubudu Ranaweera 62, Raju Gayashan 18, Romesh Eranga 4/66, Marlon Madushanka 2/31, Denuwan Fernando 2/23) 

 BRC 135-7 contd 241 (67.5) (Supun Devinda 42, Pubudu Seneviratne 38, Romesh Eranga 34, Marlon Madushanka 51, Denuwan Fernando 30, Chanaka Perera 3/75, Tharaka Silva 2/8, Isuru Gunasena 2/59, Pubudu Ranaweera 2/31) and 47-1 (10.1) (Supun Devinda 18, Malinga Maligaspe 20 n.o.) At Panadura Esplanade: Panadura 184; 

 Saracens 12-0 contd 352-5 (99) at close (Rishan Silva 20, Sashrika Pussegolla 23, Samith Dushantha 40, Kasun Bodhisha 179, Chamara Soysa 66 n.o., Surendra Kumara 3/33) At Police Park: Police 129 and 138-8 (35.5) at close (Tharindu Weerasinghe 18, Anura Priyantha 16, Dinesh de Silva 6/36) 

 Seeduwa/Raddoluwa CC 142-2 contd 321 (80.1) (Tharaka Waduge 127, Geeth Kumara 25, Buddhi Samarawickrama 24, Neil Priyantha 26, Chirantha de Silva 23, Anushka Ramanayake 2/54, Rashmi Jinan 2/91, Anura Priyantha 2/18) At Maitland Place: Singha SC 155 and 236 (63.2) (Rishan Kavinga 50, Thilina Rajakaruna 25, Asela Wewalwala 30, Matheesha Ranasinghe 26, Neville Liyanage 45, Sampath Perera 23 n.o., Abuthahir Rizan 3/50, Chamila Gamage 2/30, Suwanji Madanayake 2/68, Yasith de Silva 2/22) Air Force 61-3 contd 99 (Achira Eranga 25, Sameen Kandanaarachchi 29, Neville Liyanage 7/36, Matheesha Ranasinghe 2/6) and 48-1 (9.5) at close (Marlon Fernando 25 n.o.) At De Zoysa Stadium: Sebastianites 244-2 contd 410-4 decl (113) (Bradman Ediriweera 101, Kelum Fernando 101, Ruwin Peiris 77, Hemantha Boteju 53 n.o., Dhanushka Indunil 43n.o.)

 Moratuwa SC 127-6 (43) (Sudeepa Perera 43 n.o., Hemantha Boteju 3/28) - (MNA) A record-setting 122 not out by New Zealand debutant Martin Guptill brightened an otherwise dismal day here Saturday as the fourth one-day international against the West Indies was washed out.

 Guptill, starting in his specialist opening position after Jesse Ryder was dropped for disciplinary reasons, batted right through the innings as New Zealand made 275 for four.



 Along the way he set the highest one-day international score by a New Zealander on debut, the second-highest maiden innings in the history of ODI cricket, behind West Indian Desmond Haynes 148 against Australia in 1978, and the highest unbeaten debut. "I can't really describe the emotions," he said when reflecting in his achievement. I was a bit nervy getting that first run was a weight off my shoulders." 



 He was also anxious when he took the long handle to Chris Gayle on 97 and brought up his century with a towering six. 

 "It was a spur of the moment thing, at first I thought I'd got under it too much but then it kept going." 

 But his heroics were not enough to snap the series deadlock as the match was abandoned with the West Indies 64 without loss chasing a revised target of 235 in 40 overs when rain sent the players off for a second and final time.



 The first match in the series was also abandoned because of rain, the West Indies won a rain-shortened second match and the third match, won by New Zealand in Wellington last Wednesday, is the only game to go the full distance.



 Weather permitting, the series will now be decided in the fifth and final match at Napier on Tuesday.

 Guptill was originally selected for the New Zealand team when Jamie How, who had been struggling for form at number three, was dropped from the side after the third match.



 But 22-year-old was then promoted to opener on the eve of the match when Ryder, who has a continuing battle with alcohol, was dropped from the side after a late-night drinking session.

 Determined to make the most of the opportunity, Guptill showed no sign of first-match nerves from the time West Indies captain Chris Gayle won the toss and made New Zealand bat in conditions ripe for his battery of quick bowlers.



 He was dropped three times, batted at nearly a run a ball, faced 135 deliveries and struck eight boundaries and two sixes.

 "Martin's innings was one of the best I've seen in a long time," a delighted New Zealand captain Daniel Vettori said.

 "Just the composure of a guy to come in for his first game and not look to accelerate at any stage, he played in a controlled manner the whole time." 



 When the New Zealand innings ended, another debutant Neil Broom was also starring at the crease with two sixes in a rapid 24 off 17 deliveries as he and Guptill plundered 59 off the final 35 balls.

 But the West Indies suffered from wayward deliveries and some sloppy fielding in which the Guptill benefited from dropped catches on 16, 21 and 33.



 New Zealand also profited from 26 extras including 11 wides and two no balls which gave them an additional 13 deliveries to score from.



 Guptill opened the innings with the experienced Brendon McCullum but rather than play a support role he scored as freely as his senior partner from the start.

 They took the score through to 68 in the 15th over before the West Indies finally made a catch stick when McCullum flailed at a Lionel Baker outswinger and was caught behind by Denesh Ramdin.



 The recalled Mathew Sinclair, one of four changes to the New Zealand side which won the third ODI on Wednesday to level the series, found that international cricket still does not agree with him.



 He lasted two overs before being dismissed in similar fashion to McCullum as Baker and Ramdin repeated their double act.

 Ross Taylor then set about righting the New Zealand innings, piling on 144 with Guptill for the third wicket.

 But when they began to push the score in the final 10 overs, Taylor went to belt Fidel Edwards out of the park only to completely miss the ball which crashed into his off stump.



 Daniel Flynn came and went for a duck in the space of two balls, bringing Broom to the crease.

 Baker was the most successful and most economical of the West Indies bowlers, taking two for 29 off his 10 overs, although he also contributed five wides.



 Gayle led the West Indies run charge, racing to 46 from 37 balls -- including four fours and three sixes -- while Sewnarine Chattergoon was left not out 17.



 Scores: New Zealand 275-4 (50) (B McCullum 26, M Guptill 122 n.o., R Taylor 75, N Broom 24, L Baker 2/29)

 West Indies 64-0 (10.3) (C Gayle 46 n.o.) MELBOURNE: Lonwabo Tsotsobe and Vaughn van Jaarsveld will make their South Africa debuts on Sunday in the first of the two Twenty20 games against Australia. 

 Herschelle Gibbs is recalled but there is no place for Hashim Amla, Neil McKenzie or Morne Morkel in Melbourne. 

 Australia have added Luke Ronchi to their squad as a late replacement for rested wicketkeeper Brad Haddin. 



 Also included is 22-year-old David Warner, who has shone in one-dayers but has yet to make his first class debut. 

 Cricket Australia announced on Saturday morning that Haddin, 31, was being rested in order to manage his "heavy workload". 

 Ronchi, 27, has played four one-day internationals and hit 36 in his sole Australian Twenty20 appearance. Selector Andrew Hilditch said he had been given a "deserved opportunity". 



 Australia: tbc 

 South Africa: Herschelle Gibbs, Jacques Kallis, AB de Villiers, JP Duminy, Vaughn van Jaarsveld, Mark Boucher (wk), Albie Morkel, Johan Botha (capt), Dale Steyn, Makhaya Ntini, Lonwabo Tsostobe. – [BBC] MELBOURNE: Australian batsman Brad Hodge is taking the national selectors head on with his caustic comments after being ignored for the One-day and Twenty20 ties against South Africa. 



 The 34-year-old Hodge questioned the selectors' logic, claiming players with lesser records had been favoured over him. 

 "The idea to be selected for Australia is to score runs, isn't it? And that's what I've done. Maybe they might change it and score less runs and I might get selected," said Hodge sarcastically. 



 Hodge, who last played for Australia during their West Indies tour, has scored 264 runs at an average of 52.8 in six Ford Ranger Cup matches this season and he leads scoring in the Twenty20 Big Bash with an average of 65 from four games. 

 In contrast, 25-year-old Shaun Marsh, who has secured berths in both the squads, has averaged 25.16 in the One-day tournament and has scored 68 runs in his past four Twenty20 matches. 



 "I think that if you look at the criteria, there's some guys in that side who mightn't have done as well as I have. Unfortunately, that's the way it is," he was quoted as saying by the 'Sydney Morning Herald'. 

 "As I say, the criteria is to score runs, and I've done that heavily for a number of years. Unfortunately, it doesn't seem to be working for me. Maybe I'll play for Australia in lawn bowls in the future, maybe tennis, maybe rowing. I'm not sure yet," he said. Hodge felt he was no longer wanted in the national set-up. – [PTI] MELBOURNE: Kevin Pietersen let England down as he failed to act responsibly but coach Peter Moores was no better and lacked the spark to excel, feels noted Australian cricket columnist Peter Roebuck. 

 "Kevin Pietersen has let down his adopted country. Given the honour of captaining the England cricket team, he failed to act responsibly," he said. 



 "Instead, he tried to impose himself, using his power as a match-winning batsman and appointed leader to remove a lackluster coach and install his own staff," he wrote in his 'Sydney Morning Herald' column. 

 Roebuck felt Pietersen was impressed by Shane Warne's approach with the under-dogs Rajasthan Royals in the Indian Premier League "yearned to instill the same freewheeling yet competitive outlook in his players and knew his sincere but unimaginative coach blocked his path". 



 "None of these ideas was bad. Pietersen has always sought to surround himself with success. After all, he went to England and moved to Hampshire for that reason, and chose Clive Rice, Warne and Ian Botham as his mentors. His ruthlessness sat beside the sense of destiny and insecurity often detected in these superficially daredevil types. 



 "Doubtless, he felt England were doomed to a long spell of mediocrity unless attitudes changed off the field. He might be right about that. Peter Moores was a hard-working fellow but lacked the spark needed to excel," he said. – [PTI] ADELAIDE, (AFP) - A police security team will shadow cycling superstar Lance Armstrong during his time at Australia's Tour Down Under next week, reports said Saturday.

 Given the extraordinary interest surrounding the seven-time Tour de France winner's comeback to elite cycling, organisers said they would be taking extra security measures to protect Armstrong.

 Armstrong is expected to arrive here over the weekend from Hawaii ahead of the January 18 start to the tour, according to the reports.

 Adelaide's Advertiser newspaper said the 37-year old American and his entourage would have the services of a dedicated police motorcyclist, an unmarked car and two patrol vehicles for his training rides.

 Police and race organisers would not comment on the security arrangements in place for Armstrong. MELBOURNE: For unruly fans trying to create trouble at Australian cricket grounds, punishment may soon be just an SMS away. Cricket Australia (CA) is planning to introduce a service through which fans can complain against hooligans via text messages to the security guards, who would take just minutes to reach the spot and take action against the troublemakers. 

 CA public affairs manager Peter Young said the innovation was trialled during a recent game in Brisbane and it could well be used nationally next year. 

 "We are very keen on the idea ... if not this year then for next season," Young was quoted as saying by 'The Sydney Morning Herald'. 

 The move may not find much favour among the spectators, who are already complaining of overbearing security at matches. 

 But Young said the planned innovation would make the atmosphere better and to avoid any prank messages, the phone number to which the SMSs would be sent will be given out only on the match day. "The CCTV footage is now so extensive that there's nowhere to hide, and if the call comes in from a fan, security can then use the CCTV to have a look at what that caller is complaining about," Young said. 

 "If it's a legitimate call they (security guards) turn up quickly," he added. – [PTI] Australian Tom Moody dead-batted suggestions linking him with the vacant England coaching position Friday, and said he doubts Shane Warne has time to commit to one of world cricket's most demanding jobs.

 Andrew Strauss was Thursday confirmed as England's new Test captain after the exits of former skipper Kevin Pietersen and coach Peter Moores.



 Moody, who has coached English county Worcestershire and Sri Lanka and currently oversees Western Australia, said Friday he had not been approached by the England and Wales Cricket Board.

 He also said he would be reluctant to move unless an offer emerged that was too good to be true.

 "In this day and age you are not going to turn your back on any opportunity, but ... I'm very happy here in Perth, the family's settled, I've got a great job, enjoying what I'm doing," he told reporters.

 "I've got no reason to look further afield."



 Warne, 39, has been linked with the England coaching position given his friendship with Pietersen, but he has been critical of the role of coaches in cricket in the past.

 Moody said he also doubted whether Warne had the inclination or time to commit to coaching the country he tormented so many times with his peerless leg-spin, particularly in an Ashes year. 



 "It's an interesting one given Shane's public feelings about coaches and how they fit into the scheme of things," he said.

 "There's no doubt Shane's a great leader, a great motivator, but whether he would want the job, whether he would be effective 24/7 or just as a consultant - maybe (that's) a better use of Shane Warne.



 "He's got a few games of golf and a few hands of poker to play I think, so he may not have the time."

 While the prospect of Warne coaching England would dismay many Australians, his former Test team-mate Justin Langer said times had changed.



 "I guess when Rod Marsh went and coached the academy in England and I saw Rod Marsh in an England tracksuit, if I could see him in it then I could see anyone in it," Langer said.

 "It's a professional world and a professional set-up today, and if it happens, it happens." ADELAIDE, (AFP) - A police security team will shadow cycling superstar Lance Armstrong during his time at Australia's Tour Down Under next week, reports said Saturday.

 Given the extraordinary interest surrounding the seven-time Tour de France winner's comeback to elite cycling, organisers said they would be taking extra security measures to protect Armstrong.

 Armstrong is expected to arrive here over the weekend from Hawaii ahead of the January 18 start to the tour, according to the reports.



 Adelaide's Advertiser newspaper said the 37-year old American and his entourage would have the services of a dedicated police motorcyclist, an unmarked car and two patrol vehicles for his training rides.

 Police and race organisers would not comment on the security arrangements in place for Armstrong.

 The newspaper said Armstrong was also expected to have a personal security guard accompany him as he leaves his city hotel each morning for the walk to the nearby tour village from where he will ride out on training runs or drive to the start line.



 Events South Australia general manager Hitaf Rasheed would not comment about specific security arrangements.

 "What a great situation to have with Lance Armstrong coming to Australia," Rasheed told the newspaper.

 "And as an organisation we will put all the (security) measures in place to make sure the event runs as smoothly as possible."

 Armstrong confidante and official photographer Elizabeth Kreutz was quoted by the newspaper that Armstrong was fully focused on riding success and spreading his cancer awareness message.



 Kreutz said Armstrong and his entourage expected the frenzy surrounding the athlete in Adelaide to be around "10 times" the magnitude of his Tour de France appearances because it was his comeback ride.

 "It is going to be crazy, it is always crazy with the fans and the media but with this being his comeback race and because everyone is so enthusiastic about Australia we think it will be great," she said.

 Kreutz said Armstrong's personal team would fly into Adelaide separate from his Team Astana cycling team, which will converge from different parts of the world.



 She said the size of the entourage reflected the fact Armstrong had dedicated the Tour Down Under not only to his comeback but his anti-cancer fight through the Lance Armstrong Foundation, which was formed in 1997, one year after Armstrong was diagnosed with testicular cancer.



 Armstrong successfully battled the cancer in 1996, retired from riding in 2005, but has dedicated his comeback to his "Livestrong" cancer prevention campaign. Former US international defender Alexi Lalas said he would not be surprised if David Beckham did not return to his club Los Angeles Galaxy after his loan with AC Milan.

 Beckham recently moved to Milan on a short-term loan deal and could make his Serie A debut against AS Roma this weekend. He is due to return to LA Galaxy in March. 



 However Lalas, the former general manager of MLS side Galaxy, believes Beckham's stint at star-studded Milan could alter the way he feels about returning to the US, where he signed a five-year deal with Galaxy in 2007. 



 "If I was still at the Galaxy, yes, I'd fear it,'' Lalas told BBC Radio Five Live. He has to do what he feels is appropriate for his career. I think he wants to do well with the Galaxy but you only have one career. 

 "The experience he's going to have at Milan will benefit him individually, how much it benefits the Galaxy and the people that are ultimately paying the majority of his wages remains to be seen. 



 "He's back in his comfort zone at AC Milan, playing with one of the biggest clubs in the world, with a tremendous amount of talent around him, with incredible money out there on the field so it must be, in a weird way for him, a relief to get out there.'' 

 Beckham made his Milan debut midweek when he played the first half of a friendly in Dubai against German side Hamburg. 

 That was the first in a potential series of performances that Beckham hopes will convince England coach Fabio Capello that he is worthy of an England shirt. 



 Capello said last year that inactivity during the MLS off-season would result in his likely omission from the next squad. 

 Lalas said that whether Beckham returns to the USA or not will not change the ambitions of Galaxy. 

 "Any manager, to a certain extent, wants David Beckham on their team but I also think David Beckham is not bigger than the Galaxy, nor is he bigger than Major League Soccer,'' said Lalas, who once played for Padova in Serie A. 



 "The Galaxy will go on and do tremendous things, as will Major League Soccer, well beyond David Beckham's time. 

 "The Galaxy will survive without David Beckham, whether that is three years from now or three months from now. Either way, they will survive. 



 "I hope he comes back rejuvenated, but I also hope it doesn't catch up with him in the middle of the season if he does come back to MLS, that's a danger and that's something I'd be wary of.'' [AFP] Renovations at Pakistan's main cricket stadium in Lahore ahead of the Champions Trophy set for September have been halted after massive irregularities were found, cricket authorities said Friday.

 The Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) said in a statement that chairman Ijaz Butt had "taken serious note of the cost overrun of the construction work at Gaddafi Stadium," adding: "On his instructions, the work has been stopped."



 The stadium is the PCB's headquarters and is to be renovated ahead of the Champions Trophy, which was cancelled last year due to security fears and has been rescheduled, subject to security clearance, for September-October 2009.



 Butt accused the previous PCB line-up under ex-chairman Nasim Ashraf who resigned last August of awarding part of the renovations contract to a friend of a PCB officer and ordered an independent inquiry into the irregularities.

 The PCB statement said the inquiry team would report back in two weeks.



 Cricket authorities said the cost of the project had ballooned to a "staggering" 471 million rupees (6.28 million dollars), and the point of the inquiry was to ascertain the "actual cost."



 The PCB said the contract to build the new VIP section at the stadium had been given to an architect who was a "close buddy" of Shafqat Naghmi, the former PCB chief operating officer.



 "The design is faulty -- huge columns have been constructed which have blocked spectators' view," the board said.

 "Hospitality boxes have been ill-conceived and huge dining room areas have been left at the back of the boxes which have very little utility," it said.

 The board called the project a "monumental disaster" and a "tribute to the management's ego and vision of grandeur." South Africa plan to rotate their fast bowlers through the two Twenty20 and five one-day matches against Australia.

 Proteas coach Mickey Arthur said the tourists had to be wary of not burning out Dale Steyn, Makhaya Ntini and Morne Morkel, who did a power of work to help win the recent Test series. 



 Morkel will not play in Sunday night's Twenty20 clash at the MCG. 

 Arthur said Proteas wanted to have the trio fresh and fit for the return Test series against Australia in South Africa, which starts next month. 



 "We're going to rotate our quick bowlers," Arthur said on Saturday. Dale Steyn, Morne Morkel, Makhaya Ntini won't play in all the games. 



 "They've had a huge amount of bowling and we've got to keep them fresh for the return Test series in South Africa." 

 Arthur said Proteas expected Australia to be desperate to bounce back after losing their first Test series on home soil in 16 years. 

 "This is going to be their chance of salvaging a little bit out of their summer," he said. 



 "They're going to come out extremely hard, we're expecting a huge backlash from them during this series and they have to start as favourites." [Agencies]



