Sports

 Handball became a household word with the movie 'Machan'. The film was based on a true story. It was all about how a group of locals managed to creep into Germany with falsified documents going as the Sri Lankan National Handball team. Few years back the issue took the country by storm with Hemasiri Fernando, president of the National Olympic Committee, having to make an official statement which said that handball in Sri Lanka doesn't exist, not even at club level.

  

 Ironically it is again Hemasiri Fernando who has come forward to form a governing body for this Olympic sport which is to be introduced in Sri Lanka. According to Fernando, all the ground work has been done to kick off the latest member of the local sporting arena. "As the first step, I have reached the world body of handball. They are quite willing to send a few coaches here to train a set of local coaches. That will be the first thing that we'll do" he said.

  

 Handball also known as team handball, European handball, or Olympic handball is a team sport in which two teams of seven players each (six players and a goalkeeper) pass and bounce a ball to throw it into the goal of the opposing team. The team with the most goals after two periods of 30 minutes wins. Goals are quite common in handball; usually both teams score at least 20 goals each, and it is not uncommon to have a match end 33-31.



 In the modern financial setup, handball can be called as one of the few economical sports in the arena. "With hardly any equipment needed, handball can be the ideal sport for a country like ours. The World Handball Federation allocates 10,000 USD for its member federations. It's a big boost for us," he said.



 Fernando further added that they will be taking the game to the schools very soon. "School level is the heart and soul of every sport. Apart from schools, an encouraging number have come forward to form several clubs as well. It's a good trend when compared to the plight of most other sports in the country" Fernando added.



 Handball which is played indoors has two variations. One is field handball which was more common in the past. The other is beach handball. The modern game is very popular in Europe where it has the greatest following after football.

  

 Being an Olympic sport and considering the amount of countries that take part in the game, Fernando stressed that the country has a great chance of participating at the Olympic Games under the wild card system. "It's a rare opportunity for us to take part in future Olympics which most other sports don't get. India is the powerhouse in the South Asian region and they have vowed to give the much needed international exposure to us. So at the moment I confirm that the progress in introducing handball here is going smoothly," he said. 

 Dilanka Auwardt is one of those rare spinners Sri Lanka cricket could look forward to in the future. The reason to call him a rare spinner would be logical with his exceptional bowling figures in an under-19 school cricket match last week. Dilanka captured 8 wickets conceding 40 runs to cause S. Thomas' a major collapse in the first innings forcing a follow on. His 8/40 comes as the best bowling figures in an innings in the ongoing under-19 school cricket season. In addition to this great feat Dilanka has captured 53 scalps so far in 7 matches. 



 Dilanka succeeded in becoming a successful spinner over the years since he took to cricket at the age of 11. "The first impression of playing cricket came to my mind from my father. He is really keen on cricket and also played and captained St. Anne's, Kurunegala in the 1980s. After seeing players like Aravinda de Silva and Sanath Jayasuriya I really wanted to go further. With that hope I began my cricket at Basilica College, a school close to my home in Ragama," Dilanka recalled his beginnings at cricket. 



 Dilanka launched his school cricket career at Basilica as a bowling all-rounder. With the successes he enjoyed as a left-arm orthodox spinner Dilanka got a break to move to St. Benedict's College, Kotahena where he further refined his bowling abilities. But his batting skill also developed along with his bowling as time went on proving to be a fine all-rounder. "In 2002 I got a break to join St. Benedict's. It was during the time I was performing well as an all rounder, especially as a bowler. Then I got opportunities to get coached by specialised spin bowling coaches like Ruwan Kalpage which improved my career as a bowler," he added.



 Any bowler would like to have 5-wicket hauls as much as possible to his credit. But Dilanka has to be born with talent to have six 5-wicket hauls to his name in seven matches that he has played during the ongoing season. All of these 5-wicket hauls have been in the first innings of the opponents' batting essays helping his side to achieve 4 outright wins so far. "I always wanted to be a good bowler. Finally I can be happy with my achievements. I managed to grab 8/40 against S. Thomas' last week though the match ended in a draw. That was my best in bowling so far. All credit should go to my present coach, Mr. NIC Silva for motivating me and teaching me new tricks with the ball," Dilanka further said. 



 The highlight of his best bowling figures was an excellent hat-trick which kept the opponents helpless. Apart from claiming 8 scalps in an innings Dilanka made his first half-century of the season with a 50 in the match against S. Thomas'. He has constantly scored between 20 and 30 runs in each of the innings in the ongoing season to total over 250 runs. These achievements as Dilanka said is most vital as he is playing the final year in school as a cricketer. "Last season I achieved 67 wickets in 12 matches. But this season has been better so far, with 53 wickets in 7 matches. And I have improved with the bat too. These successes are very important to me as a cricketer who is looking for a bright future. I think my school career has helped me a lot in paving the path for a fine future in cricket," further added Dilanka hopefully.



 He has already earned a slot in the Sri Lanka Under-19 squad this year, which Dilanka related as a huge achievement. The ambition of this young cricketer is to go further in cricket by taking one step at a time. "I have already played an under-23 season with Colts. I have received offers from a few clubs which is good news for a cricketer in the final year at school. I will do everything I can until I reach the helm of representing Sri Lanka one day. That is my ultimate dream," he added.

  

 Players in the calibre of Dilanka would end the drought of well settled spinners for the country's cricket in the future. Dilanka would be a fine orthodox spinner Sri Lanka will look forward to accommodate in the bowling department in the absence of senior contenders in time to come. He also indicated the likes of introducing a new delivery which he claims to be experimenting on. "These days I have been successful with three deliveries that I have developed. There are two variations of spin with the ball going away from the wicket and going to the wicket. Apart from that delivery I bowl an armer which creates top spin. I do a lot of variations. With the help of my coach Mr. NIC Silva, I'm developing a new delivery which will be useful in creating an identity for myself and my future career as a spinner," Dilanka also said he hopes to continue his higher studies successfully.



 The recently held Sirasa Twenty20 tournament has created a spotlight over Dilanka's cricketing career. He said he received the exposure a cricketer would need when looking for a bright future. "I came from the bottom as a human being and I'm happy of what I am now. Nothing would be possible without the support of my father, mother and my only sister. They are my greatest strength. I have to thank all my coaches who taught me the basics in cricket and helped me to shine my talent: Roshan Silva, Bandula de Silva and NIC Silva are some of them. St. Benedict's College has been a great power behind me. I will make my school proud someday," he concluded.



