News Features

 Bangladesh marked its re-entry into the democratic mainstream with its General Elections on December 29 last year, ending a near two-year caretaker regime. The elections resulted in an overwhelming victory for former Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina-led Awami League which won 229 out of 295 seats in Parliament. 



 Hasina's main rival, former Prime Minister Khaleda Zia who led the Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP) could only win 27 seats. The election is believed to have been free and fair by previous Bangladesh election standards. Over 200,000 election monitors, including several dozen international observers gave the election an all clear, even though there were some incidents reported. 



 The landslide victory of the Awami League is mainly attributed to the overwhelming support it received from the first-time voters. According to Elections Commission statistics, 31% of over 81 million registered voters were fresh voters. These young voters are believed to have voted with the Awami League due to their disillusionment with the corruption that crippled the BNP government that ruled from 2001 to 2006. The Awami League also did its part to woo younger voters by presenting its 2021 vision for Bangladesh, which at least in paper gave much hope for the young voter base. Also, the Awami League had a better track record on corruption with far fewer of its members being tainted with misdeeds, compared to their main rivals. 



 The election marked another demographic landmark in Bangladesh as well. For the first time, female voters outnumbered male voters and number of female candidates who contested the polls and won was higher then ever before. Though mostly a conservative Muslim nation, Bangladesh has made significant progress in ensuring female representation in politics. In 2002, the country introduced legislature that ensured that at least 15% of all elected members of Parliament were women. 



 The election would mark an end to a turbulent period in Bangladesh politics, which culminated in the elections that were scheduled for 2006 being cancelled. The caretaker government that was due to hold the elections was accused of biased towards the BNP by Hasina and her coalition. Nationwide protests and riots broke out forcing the head of the caretaker government to step down in January 2007. Many believed that the country's military which has a history of interventions and coups had a role in the resignation of the caretaker government. 



 Later, Fakhruddin Ahmed was named as the 'Chief Advisor' to the caretaker government with the full backing from the military. Though it was not a formal coup d'etat by the Army, it was definitely an intervention by the forces to prevent the country from descending into chaos. Ahmed, an eminent economist, is credited with delivering on his promise of improving Bangladesh's record as one of the most corrupt nations in the world. The country was named the most corrupt country for five consecutive years by Transparency International prior to the caretaker government taking over its rule in 2006. Over 150 politicians and civil servants have been taken into custody since on allegations of corruption while a countrywide campaign was launched to root out corruption while the emergency law was in force. 



 Last year, Ahmed's administration attempted to reform the political parties by exiling the leaders of the two main parties, Sheikh Hasina and Khaleda Zia. However, this move was subsequently turned down due to domestic and international pressure. The interim caretaker government had always promised an election by the end of 2008 and there was no option but to revert to the established parties, whatever stains of corruption they may carry from their past. A watershed moment came when Sheikh Hasina was arrested in July, accused of assassinating four political rivals. The action provoked an angry outcry from the public with even her rival Khalida Zia joining in the protest calling for the release of Hasina. 



 Hasina and Khaleda have been dominating Bangladesh politics since the early 1990s with either ruling in alternation. Khaleda, the widow of former Bangladesh leader Ziaur Rahman ruled from 1991 to 1996 and then later from 2001 to 2006. She had the dubious honour of presiding over what Transparency International called the most corrupt country in the world for several consecutive years. 



 Hasina also brings along with her the weight of her family into politics, being the daughter of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, the first Prime Minister of Bangladesh. In August 1975, Hasina survived the massacre of her family including her father by the Army. Hasina, who was out of the country at that time, survived this fate. She became Prime Minister for the first time in 1996 defeating Khalida's BNP. 



 This time around, Prime Minister-designate Hasina pledged to end tyranny and introduce a new political culture to her country. She has requested her supporters not to engage in any sort of violence against their defeated political rivals. This attitude in a country known for political victimisation and vengeance against defeated foes, might bring about a degree of stability at least in the short run. 



 Incoming Prime Minister Hasina has her work cut out in one of South Asia's most impoverished nations. According to the World Bank, over 40 million Bangladeshis were added into the ranks of the poor due to the country's worsening economic conditions in the recent years. The challenge facing Hasina is to prove to the donor community who will be essential in bringing Bangladesh out of its economic woes that her government meets the standards expected of a development partner. With more emphasis of the donor community on good governance, transparency, human rights and minimum corruption, Hasina has to prove that Bangladesh is a reformed country from what it was in 2006, if she expects to get any assistance from the rest of the world. 



 In recent times there has been concern raised by many over the violence unleashed on minorities of this mainly Muslim country. Among them are the tribal communities that had lived in the Bengali region for centuries and the small but significant Buddhist community that continues to live in the hill areas. They continue to face intimidation and discrimination from the state. If Hasina wishes to showcase her administration as any different to those which have been ruling her country for decades, she needs to make a concerted effort to ensure the rights of these minorities are protected. After a brief interlude, Bangladesh's two main political parties are back in government and opposition. Whether the recent elation has established the previous status quo or has ushered in a new era of change would only be answered in time.



