BusinessUnregulated Finance Companies to find it tough in 2009 due to lagging customer confidence and illiquid assets 

 A possible bail out by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka on the troubled Seylan Bank, could ward off the looming threat of a contagion effect that could cripple the entire financial system in the country, analysts stress.



 "There has been a break down in customer confidence following the Golden Key issue which eventually resulted in a run on deposits of Seylan Bank. If Seylan is allowed to fall, the implications could create a contagion effect over the entire financial system" JB Securities MD, Murtaza Jafferjee told The Nation Economist. 



 The erosion of credibility along with widespread inter-bank exposures, would make the situation even worse, referring to a recent media report which stated that one of the state banks in the country has lent money to the troubled Golden Key.



 "The level of exposure of the other banks to the troubled entity is an important factor when we talk about a contagion effect. We still have no idea of the level of exposure of other banks in the country to the Seylan, Golden Key and other finance companies that belong to the Ceylinco Group" he said.



 Agreeing with the idea expressed by Jafferjee, another analyst on the ground of anonymity told The Nation Economist, that if Seylan falls, a threat of a contagion is imminent. He however conceded, that since the Sri Lankan financial system was not as well developed as those in the US, Europe or even the Indian financial system, the possibility of a contagion could be just a notion at this juncture.



 "The late President D B Wijetunga once said in Parliament, one of the key state banks had gone bankrupt. In the recent history we saw the collapse of the Pramuka Bank. Though people panicked, a contagion did not take place. So I think it is too premature to predict anything" he said.



 He however predicted out that since the world was facing the worst financial crisis after the Great Depression in 1930s, the fate of local financial companies, specially the unregulated ones, would definitely be affected by the panic situation that had been created by the Golden Key saga. 



 As he pointed out, most of these finance companies have been aggressively investing in assets like property and motor vehicles, which are non liquid in nature. Difficulties in short term fund raising and asset and liability mismatches, will hamper them further amidst eroding customer confidence. Increasing non-performing loan ratios would also trouble their balance sheets, he said 

 "2009 however would be a good year for state banks" he predicted. -Even after recent price revision the company is making a profit of Rs 4 million a day by selling domestic cylinders at Rs 900 each - CPC official Shocking revelations were made by the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (CPC) to The Nation Economist, about Laugfs Gas Pvt Ltd selling domestic Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) at an undue profit of Rs.900 per domestic cylinder of LPG following the recent price revision on December 31, 2008.



 According to a highly placed CPC official, CPC has sold LPG gas to Laugfs Gas at Rs. 37.25 per kilogram in December 2008. "The cost of 12.5kg cylinder sold by CPC to Laugfs Gas comes to about Rs. 463.63. Even after the recent price revision the company is making profit of Rs. four million per day," he said.



 The sources said CPC approximately sells 4500 LPG cylinders to Laugfs Gas for each day., "The Corporation does not include the freight and storage charges when we sell LPG to Laugfs Gas."

 The CPC sources said that that Laugfs Gas Pvt Ltd has imported 18 639 metric tones of LPG while it has purchased 21 900 metric tones from CPC for the last year. The cost of importation from January to December 2008 amounts to Rs. 20 104 061 53 while the tax paid is Rs. 60 312 370.



 However, Laugfs Gas Pvt Ltd, Chairman, W K H Wegapitiya said that the company imports 70 percent of its total production of LPG while only 30 percent is brought from the CPC. 

 According to CPC sources, the cost per kilogram for Laugfs Gas imported LPG amounts to Rs. 111 and the cost per 12.5kg cylinder amounts to Rs. 1387.50 during the period of 2008.



 Meanwhile, the highly placed CPC official said that from January this year, the CPC would revise its LPG prices and reduce them further. "CPC will be further reducing LPG prices in January ," the source said.

 However, Laugfs Gas Chairman, Wegapitiya told The Nation Economist that his company was not making any undue profit and all its accounts were audited. "We are not making any undue profits as claimed by the CPC officials. Our prices are adjusted by the Consumer Affairs Authority according to a pricing formula," he said.



 He added that LPG products of CPC were used for the domestic gas cylinder (12.5kg), "CPC products amounts to 30-40 percent of our total demand. CPC's LPG is used for the domestic cylinder," he said.

 The Nation Economist attempted to obtain statistics of Laugfs Gas Pvt Ltd. However it failed, since the company was unable to provide this information. (AE) Shaw Wallace & Hedges PLC (SW&H) is to sell its stake in Shaw Wallace Marketing Limited (SWML) to cover the debts incurred by its fully owned property subsidiary, the company said in a stock exchange filing.



 SW&H wishes to make an offer to all local shareholders of SW&H and SWML to sell 131, 600 Ordinary Shares (Voting) and 394,800 Ordinary Shares (Non-Voting) in SWML held by SW&H, representing 10.3 percent.

 Taking into consideration the aggregate of Voting and Non-Voting shares, as per March 31 audited accounts, the net asset value per share is Rs.51.05.



 According to the stock exchange filing, SWML has showed satisfactory growth and achieved impressive results by recording a turnover of Rs.2.6 billion for 07/08, and is achieving substantial growth in 08/09 despite adverse economic condition experienced in the country.



 SWML further expects to enhance its market share for all its brands in the consumer and the automotive divisions.

 Through this offer, SW&H expects to partly reduce the debt incurred by its fully owned subsidiary, Pioneer Propoerties and Lee Hedges Limited in its development projects of the construction of the Mayfair City apartment complex..

 The construction work of Mayfair City complex is currently interrupted due to the lack of prospective investors and high cost of borrowing.

 The offer is scheduled to close on January 20. (IS) 

 Central Bank of Sri Lanka expects the country's inflation rate to fall to 8 from 9 percent by mid 2009.

 CBSL Governor, Ajith Nivard Cabraal speaking at the ceremony to announced "Road Map: Monetary and financial sector policies for 2009 and beyond," said that the CBSL expects the declining trend in inflation to continue in the period ahead, and for the inflation rate to reach a single digit level by mid 2009.



 He added that the inflation has been coming down since July 2008, and that the inflationary expectations show signs of moderating.

 He added that Sri Lanka's economy was expected to grow from 5.0 to 5.5 percent during the year. However, he also noted that the growth could exceed upto 6 percent due to the recent introduction of the policy stimulant package by the Government.

 The Governor also said that with the decline in inflation, the Central Bank may have to ease its monetary policy to a certain degree in 2009 to stimulate the economy. 



 The overall budget deficit is expected to fall to 6.5 percent in 2009 from seven percent in 2008.

 "The decline in based on the expected increase of 21 percent in Government revenue, while expenditure and net lending is expected to increase by 17 percent," he said.

 Cabraal noted that CBSL expected the Balance of Payment (BOP) situation to improve during the year due to the easing of commodity prices and stabilisation of crude oil prices in international markets, and the continuous inflow of worker remittances to the country.



 "The BOP is estimated to record a surplus of around USD 450 million for the year. This would support the improvement of gross official reserves of the country," he said.



 Control

 He also warned that the Government sector would have to keep a tight control of its spending if the monetary policy programme was not to be disrupted. 



 "The realisation of monetary aggregates depends on the credit use of the public sector. So it is important that the Government and public corporations adhere to their spending limits to avoid crowding out the private sector." 

 He further added that Sri Lanka plans to enter into bilateral swap arrangements with other central banks to shore up reserves. 

 "Some Central Banks have already responded positively and CBSL is currently negotiating such arrangements," he announced.

 Encourage



 Mr Cabraal also said that CBSL hoped to encourage more foreign remittances, and to attract steady foreign investments from Sri Lankan expatriates.

 He explained that CBSL would appoint commercial banks as lead managers to promote treasury bills and bonds among Sri Lankan expatriates, and it would also offer an additional bonus interest to supplement the interest income provided by commercial banks to NRFC and RFC account holders.



 He further noted that CBSL would encourage Sri Lankans to bring in their foreign currency savings abroad, by paying a reduced tax as the final income tax. 



 The Governor added that CBSL intended to develop a framework for detecting and assessing risks to the banking and financial system, and to establish mechanisms to mitigate such risks.

 "We expect to carry out stress tests on bank specific or market specific scenarios, to evaluate potential effects on the financial conditions, profitability, and capital adequacy of the banks and other financial institutions," he said. Lanka Indian Oil Company (LIOC) has assured that the company would not be affected, as a result of the expiry of the five year agreement of the formation of Ceylon Petroleum Storage Terminal Ltd (CPSTL) on December 31, 2008.

 According to LIOC, Managing Director, Suresh Kumar, the termination of the agreement would not have an impact on the company since it had purchased one-third of the shares of CPSTL.

 "We have paid for the ownership of shares of CPSTL and also for the 100 petrol sheds. The agreement would not have an effect on LIOC," he reiterated.



 During the week, Minister of Petroleum Resources informed Ceylon Petroleum Corporation trade unions that he would present a cabinet memorandum seeking approval to divest the one third shares of CPSTL and the remaining 107 filling stations under the treasury to CPC.



 Meanwhile, the Attorney General in his report has said there would be no legal obstacle in handing over the shares back to CPC after the completion of the agreement.



 The five-year pact expired on December 31 last year. According to an agreement in 2003, the storage and pipeline facilities of CPC was formed into one company called the Ceylon Petroleum Storage Terminal Ltd (CPSTL) of which, each of the three players owned 1/3 of shares. (AE)



