BusinessCustomers at Keells Super were rewarded beyond their expectations as they received double of what they had spent in total at Keells Super. The Keells Super Magic Draw was held daily from 15th November – end December 2008, and it has proved to be an extremely popular promotion for the supermarket chain which is renowned for their wide range of quality products and service offered to customers. 



 Customers walked away with free shopping ranging from Rs.4,498 to Rs.175,380. Some of the names off winners and amounts won are given as follows:



 Mrs.Inoshi De Silva won Rs 175,380, Mr Kavitha Hari Fernando won 62,933.20, a customer from Kiribathgoda won 70,000, Ms Fernando won 45,126.76 to name a few. There was so much of excitement created for this promotion, as customers were spending more and more at Keells Supermarkets, to receive higher rewards.



 Keells Super also had more than 350 products on fabulous offers which enabled customers to save when they shopped for their groceries and festive food products.



 Unbeatable offers were given on rice, dhal, canned fish, oil, chicken and wide range of food products which also included Keells meats. Keells Super will continue to offer super discounts every month during the year 2009, so that their valued customers can obtain a great saving.



 Kids too were not left out as there were magic shows and Santa Clause to keep them entertained when they visited Keells Super outlets with their parents. 

 Due to the popularity of the Keells Super Magic Draw Promotion held in November and December 2008, the management of Keells Super is considering of having a New Magic Draw Promotion at all Keells Super outlets during the month of January 2009. Seven years after it commenced operations as Sri Lanka's centre of excellence for screening for many forms of cancer, the Ceylinco Healthcare centre says it has helped thousands of Sri Lankans protect themselves against the dreaded disease by opting for early detection.



 Now a well-known landmark on Park Street, Colombo 2, the Centre which celebrated its 7th anniversary this month said it was particularly pleased with the progress it had made in combating the spread of breast cancer, having performed nearly 9,000 mammograms over this period.



 Close to 26,000 people have visited the centre for screening over the past seven years, about 14,000 of them in the last three, the Centre's Senior Medical Officer Dr. Shyama Fernando disclosed this week. Some 275 people who tested positive for cancer have had or are undergoing treatment. To mark its 7th anniversary, the Centre organised a get-together for regular visitors to offer them a day full of fun and knowledge. Participants had an opportunity to have a free consultation with an Oncologist. The programme also included presentations on hydrotherapy, beauty culture and cookery. The invitees were provided a healthy breakfast and a lunch and enjoyed a musical session.



 Dr. Fernando said that although the Centre at commencement primarily targeted cancer patients, its services were extended to screening packages for a variety of health problems including diabetes and heart problems, making it a comprehensive health centre. She said the Centre has also become popular among people in the outstations, where medical screening facilities are virtually non-existent. 



 The Centre has dedicated Wednesday to offer all services within a day for those who book early. "On this day, visitors can undergo screening, collect their test reports and also meet their doctor and discuss further management of disease," Dr. Fernando said. "We are the only Centre that does needle biopsies and gives reports on the same day thus helping the patient to see the surgeon and discuss further treatment according to the report." Further enhancing its services, an ultra-modern Radiation Treatment Unit was set up a year ago. This unit houses the country's first Linear Accelerator, the international Gold Standard in the delivery of accurate, intensity-modulated radiation therapy for the treatment of many forms of cancer. Set up in affiliation with the Washington Hospital Centre, the Ceylinco Healthcare Centre is equipped for oral, breast, colorectal, stomach and cervical cancer screening as well as for genetic testing to identify high-risk families. Bringing together the expertise of a breast surgeon, oncologist, radiologist, pathologist, counsellor and a team of trained support staff, the unit offers tests such as mammography, colonoscopy, endoscopy, laryngoscopy, ultrasound screening and x-ray at the centre in comfortable and pleasant surroundings. Harpic gets better with super toilet cleaner Harpic the toilet expert, has won the trust of the Sri Lankan housewives with its range of products emerging as the gold standard cleaning agent in the market. Recently Harpic announced its latest improvement to the premium toilet cleaning range, in the form of Harpic Optithick.



 "This latest innovation is a result of Reckitt Benckiser having the best interest of the housewife in mind, and our commitment towards the continuous improvement of our products. The undisputed leader in its category Harpic is indeed the toilet care expert," stated Reazul Chowdhury, Mallaging Director, Reckitt Benckiser. 



 Harpic enjoys market leadership in its category and won recognition as the Household Care Brand of the Year' at the SLIM-Neilson Peoples Award for the year 2008. Harpic is a household name in over 180 countries.

 Zakaria Ahamed, Marketing Director commented, "The new Harpic liquid comes with the optimum formulation; spreads the liquid evenly and lasts longer on the surface thereby removing germs, stains and odor. Hence the best just got better." 



 "As market leader in the toilet cleaning segment we owe it to our consumers to continue bringing new innovation to the product range. New Harpic Optithick is the outcome of this. We are confident that the new product with its unique formulation will prove very _ popular with our consumers." expressed Shenali Wickramaaratchi, Manager Surface Care Category. 



 Reckitt Benckiser is the world's No.1 in household cleaning with many renowned brands that have become essential items in the household. Brands such as Mortein, Dettol, Colman's Vinegar, Disprin, Gaviscon, Cardinal floor polish, Lysol all surface cleaner, Brasso, Fybogel, Robin liquid blue, Mansion wax, Colin glass cleaner, Veet hair removal cream and Airwick air freshener have won the hearts of the housewives not only in Sri Lanka, but the world over.  The heart fund organised by Nawaloka Hospitals, the Bank of Ceylon and Dr Soma Edirisinghe, received over Rs 1 million in donations from the Pancha Maha Balavegaya in Ratnapura (Sanga Veda Guru Govi & Kamkaru) at an event organised recently at the Ratnapura Mudduwa Sirisumana Temple Hall, amidst the presence of a large gathering of Rev.Sanga Nayaka's and Chief Priests of the temples and pirivenas of the Ratnapura District. Amongst them were the Mahanayake of Ekneligoda Sector Chief, Rev. Madalagama Vajira Buddhi and Chief Priest of Millapitiya Vidyabiwardana Pirivena, Scholar Rev.Kongasthanne Ananda, Professor of the Sinhala section at the Ruhunu University and Chief Priest of Mudduwa Sri Sumana Pirivena Vageeswara Pandith Keerthi Sri Abeyraja, Rev. Denagama Piyadassi Ratnapura and District Chief Adikarana Sanganayaka. 



 The Minister of Youth Affairs Pavithra Devi Wanniarachchi, Founder of the Punarjeewa fund Dr.Soma Edirisinghe, staff of Nawaloka Hospital and a crowd of over two thousand residents of the Ratnapura District also participated in this meritorious event.



 Over 33,000 heart patients are in urgent need of heart surgery in Sri Lanka and due to the long waiting lists at the National hospitals, the Nawaloka Hospitals together with the Punarjeewa Fund decided to launch a fund for urgent heart surgeries on World Heart Day.



 Of the temples and pirivenas of the Ratnapura District, Chief Priest of the Ratnapura Saddammalanka Pirivena, Rev. Denagama Piyadassi and Chief Priest of the Mulamahawihara Vidyabignani, Rev.Ahuliyadde Athula made a special contribution to this fund. Amongst the others who made special contributions were Dr. W.M Podimanike owner of the Katawala Danwanthari Medical Centrein Opatha and the Principal and students of Ferguson Girls High School, Ratnapura. A special street drama too was staged at the function.



 Another noteworthy feature was the active participation of the gem dealers of the area and by the general public who made generous contributions to the fund. In fact the gem dealers of the Ratnapura area had arranged a special awareness program about the Punarjeewa fund on the previous day in order to create further awareness of this worthy cause. 



 The Ratnapura District MP and Minister of Youth affairs Pavithra Devi Wanniarachchi and the founder of the Punarjeewa Fund Dr.Soma Edirisinghe addressed the gathering and explained the objectives of the fund. They expressed their appreciation to Deputy ChairmanJayantha Dharmadasa and staff of Nawaloka Hospitals for coming forward as a prime partner in support of the Punarjeewa fund. 



 Those wishing to organise a similar event in their respective areas could do so by contacting the Janasarana or Punarjeewa Fund office, or by contacting Dr.Soma Edirisinghe, the staff of Nawaloka Hospital and the staff of the Bank of Ceylon. Sweet taste of success to Emirates with daily flights to Cote D'Ivoire The sweet taste of Emirates' success has taken on a new meaning after the airline introduced daily flights to Cote D'Ivoire, a leading producer of cocoa and a key ingredient behind one of the world's favourite treats, chocolate.

 Just two years after Emirates whetted the appetite of travellers to Abidjan with a five times a week service, demand has called for operations to go daily, and now they have.

 Under the new schedule, effective December 1st, EK flight 787 leaves Dubai each day at 0740hrs and arrives in Abidjan, Felix Houphouet Boigny Airport, at 1455hrs. 



 As before, flights to and from Abidjan, served by a 3-class Airbus A340-300, are making a quick stop in Accra, Ghana.

 Abidjan is one of the 15 destinations to which Emirates flies in Africa with most passengers flying in from Paris, Beirut, Accra, New York and Dubai. 

 The extra flights will be of particular benefit to passengers with connections to GCC countries, the wider Middle East and the Far East. 



 Salem Obaidalla, Emirates' Senior Vice President, Africa, West Asia & Indian Ocean, said: "This represents a further push by Emirates into West Africa and brings new support to business, international trade and passenger travel, while strengthening the country's overall transport infrastructure. And to think chocolate is part of the equation will only serve to give us an even greater taste for Africa." 



 Obaidalla added: "The introduction of this daily service comes just weeks after we announced a double daily flight to Lagos from February 1st next year. This is such an exciting continent for us and are delighted to be playing a part in its prolific growth."

 The West African nation, which has Guinea, Mali and Ghana amongst its neighbours, is one of the world's major producers and exporters of cocoa beans, coffee and palm oil. Abidjan is also a large commercial sea port, forming a gateway for the industrial world to and from Western Africa.



 Emirates, supported by Emirates SkyCargo, has been flying to the African continent since 1986, the year after the airline was established. 

 In just 23 years, the Dubai-based carrier has quickly grown into a major player on the aviation stage, boasting a 123-strong modern fleet, the world's largest A380 order book and a six continent route network. 

 The travel and tourism conglomerate has won more than 400 international awards for its products and services, helped no doubt, by its various chocolate offerings....



 Enough to make you melt 

 • Onboard - Chocolates in First and Business Class are produced by Godiva. In Economy, they are made in Dubai by Le Chocolat using imported blocks of Felchlin 

 • Counter Culture - offering hampers full of goodies such as assorted home-baked chocolates, cookies and mince pies from within The Harbour Hotel & Residence in Dubai 

 • Check-in - Emirates is planning for passengers to receive special Godiva chocolates when they check in at T3 on January 1st, 2009 

 • Luxury Hotels by Dnata - a number of its hotels provide chocolate-based skin pampering, which includes wrinkle reduction treatments 

 • Terminal 3 - Emirates Lounges serve a delicious selection of chocolate treats such as white chocolate raspberry trifle, chocolate creme brulee and white and dark chocolate fig truffles 

 • Emirates' Executive Pastry Chef Lawrence J Wallace has an intriguing recipe for Chocolate Orange Ice Cream infused with chilli, available on request, also at Counter Culture. W. G. Thalpawala of Tangalle a 56-year-old father savouring his retirement, is buying lotteries to test his luck and to establish a business. With this motive he bought a ticket of Govi Setha of 671st and luck turned his way, by giving him the first prize of Rupees two million.

 The Director of National Lotteries Board Janaka Sri Warnasinghe is seen presenting him with his cheque, while Negombo Sales Agent of National Lotteries Board Ranjith Kuweju also participated. Australian, Japanese cities, to be first for new A330 operations Singapore Airlines will introduce its new Airbus A330-300 regional aircraft on routes to Australian and Japanese cities, progressively from end March 2009. 



 The first of 19 new A330-300s will be delivered to Singapore Airlines by Airbus in mid-January. Initially, the aircraft will be used to complete pilot conversion, and thereafter, operate some short sectors between Singapore and Kuala Lumpur, and Singapore and Jakarta, during late February and March. 



 Its full entry into commercial service will occur on 30 March 2009, and to coincide with the 25th anniversary of the commencement of Singapore Airlines flights between the two cities, the first route will be between Singapore and Brisbane. 



 From April, services between Singapore and Perth will be progressively converted from the existing B777 operations to A330; conversion will be completed in May. The daily flight between Adelaide and Singapore will be converted by June. 



 Also in June, following delivery of the eighth aircraft, the A330 will debut on Japan routes, with the daily service to Nagoya to be converted from B777 operations. By March 2010, the daily B777 service to Osaka will be replaced with the A330. 

 The A330-300 twin-engine wide-body aircraft will be configured with 285 seats in two classes – Business and Economy. A new Business Class seat, especially designed for regional and medium-haul flights, as well as other cabin product features, will be unveiled when the aircraft is delivered in January. 



 The Business Class cabin will consist of 30 seats, in a 2-2-2 configuration (distinct from the existing B777 on these routes, which is in a 2-3-2 layout). Economy will feature 255 seats, in a 2-4-2 configuration. All seats will feature the new KrisWorld, Singapore Airlines award-winning inflight entertainment system.



