InterviewsThere was a time when this man was renowned as an election winning machine; when whichever side S.B. Dissanayake happened to be on, was most likely to win any election. With his street fighter attitude and powers of oratory, it was Dissanayake that party leaders looked to when they badly needed an election win. Unfortunately for the UNP, their trump card failed to win the tricks for them since the resounding election victory of 2001. For Dissanayake, the political journey has been rocky since, with a contempt of court charge that landed him in prison for over a year and a dispute over his parliamentary seat and his civic rights that have kept him out of the election campaigns for almost four years. Having overcome the first legal hurdle in court recently, the UNP's National Organiser has accepted the leadership's request to be at the helm of the party's polls battle in the Central Province. The Nation caught up with Dissanayake, the main opposition party's Chief Ministerial Candidate for the Central Province at the February 14 poll, on the campaign trail.....



 Following are excerpts: 



 

Q: It's been a while since you contested an election. What does it feel like? 

 A: Yes, after the Supreme Court sentenced me to imprisonment, I lost my parliamentary seat. Actually, it is a failing on the part of the Speaker that parliament was unable to protect my parliamentary seat. I lost the seat on the basis that I was absent from parliament for over three months. But in fact, when we went to court about this matter, the Chief Justice clearly stated that the court never revoked S.B. Dissanayake's parliamentary seat. However back then we did not pursue legal action. When the Elections Commissioner sent me a letter stating that my name had been struck off the voter registry and that I could not contest an election, we went to Supreme Court. This time the courts gave leave to proceed and issued a stay order on the Election Commissioner's letter. So now I can contest, but this has not gone down too well with many sections of the government. On the day we handed in nominations, a whole set of lawyers appeared at the Elections Department armed with a heap of books to register their protest at my nomination. However it was as if fate intervened to thwart their efforts, because they ignored the half an hour that the returning officers provided for disputing the nominees on the list and attempted to rise and protest after the officers had publicly announced that all nominations had been accepted. The lawyers were then told that if they wanted to contest any person's nomination, it would have to be done in court. So they picked up their books and walked out. Having overcome that barrier as well, I have now commenced campaign work. 



Q: A question has arisen as to why you, being a national level politician, with big ambitions agreed to contest at this provincial poll. 

 A: I first experienced this phenomenon during Chandrika's time. When she contested the Western Provincial Council elections, everyone questioned the wisdom of the move claiming it was a 'little' poll and she was in fact a national leader. But at the time I backed her facing the provincial poll. Within the SLFP at the time, there was a huge struggle with Anura Bandaranaike and even the current President Mahinda Rajapaksa blocking Chandrika's entry into politics. I firmly felt that in order to overcome this barrier she was facing, the best option was to contest the provincial council poll. However, at the time she contested, Party Leader Sirimavo Bandaranaike had appointed Felix Fernando to lead the Gampaha District at the poll and the UNP had nominated Lalith Athulathmudali as its Chief Ministerial candidate for the Western Province. All Chandrika could do therefore was to simply enter her name in the nomination list. But as you know, Athulathmudali was killed during that election campaign and Chandrika won the provincial council election with a massive number of provincial votes, leading to her appointment as Chief Minister. Her win at the council propelled her towards national leadership, first as Prime Minister and then later as President. So I think provincial elections can be a springboard for greater heights on the national stage. 



 As you know, the Eastern Provincial Council election was a militarised election and despite contesting with an armed paramilitary outfit the government still only managed to get 22 seats while the UNP was returned with 21. In Sabaragamuwa and the North Central Provinces the government played the war card and the people accepted it at the time. They are now holding the Central and North Western council elections six months ahead of time, this too to attempt to win by dubious means. But I don't think so when UNP Leader Ranil Wickremesinghe asked me to lead the campaign in the Central Province, I gladly took on the challenge. I think that at some point, the journey of this government has to be reversed, it must be turned. This is why I have taken 'turning point' as my campaign slogan. I believe that the government's fortunes will turn in the Central Province. 



Q: Wouldn't it undermine your image in national politics, especially if you were to lose?

 A:I don't think we can lose this election. First of all, having learned that I was going to contest this poll, a great deal of our party members who have been disillusioned with the way the party has been functioning of late, have been rejuvenated. So many who have been sick of the path the UNP has taken, who have been left helpless n the fact of government victimisation have come forward to help and even the government knows this and it has disturbed them. Secondly, the Central Province has traditionally been a UNP stronghold. And thirdly, the only trump cards the government has is the decision of the Thondaman and Chandrasekeran parties – the CWC and the UPF – to contest with the government. But if you were to look closer at this, you will notice how much the positions of Thondaman and Chandrasekeran have been undermined in the Central Province especially since they have both been ministers for so very long. This became abundantly clear during the Sabaragamuwa election in August when they garnered a pathetic number of votes – less than 4000 combined. On the other hand, our candidates in the estate areas of Sabaragamuwa each got more than 10,000 votes. They currently have nine MPs but I don't think even four will be returned. In fact, the CWC and the UPF fought each other in the Central Province over the last two days. About 11 of their members are in hospital as a result. I met with Minister Thondaman and I attempted to meet with Minister Chandrasekeran to convince them to contest with the UNP. In the end they decided to contest with the government so we managed to divide each of the parties. The CWC's Sathasivam used to be a colossus in the party as well as Rajaratnam who was formerly a MP are now contesting under the UNP. And Chandrasekeran's greatest strength used to be Digambaran and Kariyappa ; they are both contesting with us. Mano Ganeshan's brother is contesting as well. The UNP's Estate Worker Association is also very strong in the area. So we are confident of breaking Thondaman's hold in the Central Province. 



Q: What in your view are the most pressing problems in the Central Province?

 A: The biggest problems in provincial councils is that power due to them have not been properly devolved from the centre, rendering them powerless to actually change much within their area. The constitution has vested a certain amount of power to the councils, which also means that this country is not an unitary state. The power being devolved to the councils have made this state more federal in nature, which I think is a good thing. But despite the powers being devolved to these provincial bodies, governments have not granted full powers to the councils. The first thing we will do is take the power that is due to the provinces from the centre. Secondly, provincial councils need to have a proper plan for the development of the region. This has not happened so far. I am hoping to formulate such a plan. In the Central Province has problems that are unique to the region and need urgent attention. The primary problems facing the people of the Central Province are unemployment and poverty. Studies have shown that in Sri Lanka, urban poverty has reduced by 50 percent in the last 15 years. Rural poverty has come down by 9 percent. But in the estates, poverty has increased by 51 percent. So the people need economic relief and this matter has intensified with the price of tea and rubber plummeting. The schools and roads in these areas are in terrible condition. Teachers are scarce. They are reluctant to come to these areas and walk on mountainous paths to reach their schools. We need to join hands with private investors and commence development programmes in these areas, leaving management to the private companies but overseeing the projects through the provincial council. It is important to increase the income of the province. Unemployment is at 8-9 percent in other parts of the country, but it's more than 12 percent in the Central Province. The provincial council needs to act on these things. I am in the process of gathering a team of retired public servants in the area to formulate plans to develop the quality of life in this area. I also have a great deal of support from the faculty of the Peradeniya University who are banding together to formulate a cohesive plan for improving the standards of education in the estate sector. The provincial council has the complete right to formulate these development programmes. 



Q: Your rival in the poll, the UPFA Chief Ministerial candidate Sarath Ekanayake has been Chief Minister of the province for almost two terms. Since you have been in political limbo for some time, do you think contesting against him will prove difficult? 

 A: I don't think Sarath was able to really do much for the province during his terms in office. He is in fact a very weak Chief Minister. The people of the Central Province are not too enamoured by him. On the other hand, S.B. Dissanayake is a hero in the hills. For one thing I hail from Hanguranketha and so I am a man of the area. Therefore I have a massive advantage, especially when going up against Sarath Ekanayake. I think even the government understood his weakness and attempted to get an MP to resign a parliament seat and contest the election as its Chief Ministerial nominee. But they were unable to do so and they were compelled to go along with Sarath. 



 Q: Do you think it will be a violent election?

 A : Well yesterday Central Province Governor Tikiri Kobbekaduwa and his goons had attacked the home of one of our female candidates – Shanthini Kongahage and broken billboards and things outside the house. They had also attempted to hoist the candidate's sister into a three-wheeler and carry her off but this had been prevented. I think the police have arrested these persons. In Nawlapitiya, it has been reported that Minister Mahindananda Aluthgamage is threatening UNP supporters and the like. And of course Lohan Ratwatte, the son of Anuruddha Ratwatte is notorious for his misadventures during elections. However, I believe that the police will remain independent through all this. The DIG is a very smart police officer. There was a move by the government to transfer the DIG out of the Central Province but the Elections Commissioner intervened and stopped the transfer from going ahead. The government is most likely going to try and make this election violent and threaten opposition candidates. But we must face these things. 



Q: The UNP has found an ally in the Western Peoples' Front led by Mano Ganesan at this election. Will Mano Ganesan be able to sway the estate sector towards the UNP? 

 A:Yes because since of late, with the estate economy in disarray and the children of parents who are estate workers doing better in school and at public exams, a lot of youth moved out of the estates and came out to the urban areas in order to engage in work. They engage in casual jobs in the cities, in homes, hotels or garages. However, with the resumption of hostilities and the Prevention of Terrorism Act in force, these youth have found themselves in a precarious position, especially when after a bomb attack or assassination attempt, Tamil people in a particular area are rounded up and detained for months. As a result these people have returned to the estates because life in the city has become too difficult and uncertain. So they return to the estates and suffer untold miseries. Their parents who are earning an estate workers' pay cannot support them and they are not equipped to engage in work on the estates. We have a small estate and most young people who went out to the cities looking for work have now returned to their homes. The UNP's Estate unions speak on their behalf and Mr. Ganesan too has been very vocal on this front. So I believe that the young people of the area are very fond of Ganesan and this will prove a factor at the election. 



Q: While you are the UNP's CM candidate, two of your siblings have pledged allegiance to the government and one of them is contesting under the UPFA in fact. Why? 

 A:One of my brothers helped President Mahinda Rajapaksa at the presidential campaign. He was not going to contest this time but a lot of senior ministers and even the President put a lot of pressure on him to contest. They also spoke to me several times. Finally I told him to go ahead and contest. I know for a fact that he will win. But the most popular sibling in our family among the people of the area is my youngest brother. He stays in Hanguranketha looking after the family interests there. He has been included in the UNP nominations list. Another brother of mine joined hands with my eldest brother to help him to campaign. I was very happy that he went, because I myself would be based in Kandy and it is very important to me that the election doesn't get messy and violent in Hanguranketha. So I firmly believe that with two brothers contesting this area the election process will be fairly peaceful. I am also very confident that both my brothers will be among the leading Sinhala candidates on the respective candidate lists of their parties. There is no bad blood in the family over this. I have given them both the necessary advise on how to conduct their campaigns peacefully and if either one needs help we are ready to give it to them. It all happened with my blessing.



 Q: There was once an understanding that whichever party you were a part of would win an election. You have not brought this luck with you to the UNP. Do you think this election will be any different? 

 A: No, I think honestly that we will win this election. The membership of the UNP is disillusioned, that is true. Although the party has been talking a lot about reform, no reforms that the people really want to see have been introduced within the UNP. We have failed in this regard and the people have criticised us as party leadership. But I believe that all this will play a lesser role in this election because the UNP membership in the Central Province has been reenergised with my decision to contest this election. 



 Q: Are you disappointed that you were not given the deputy leader position in the UNP? 

 A: No, Karu Jayasuriya has retuned to the party and this was his position before. We banded together with Karu Jayasuriya in fighting for reforms within the party. I am very fond of Karu Jayasuriya so I have no problem with his reinstatement. Also, Rukman Senanayake's appointment as assistant leader is an appropriate choice. The Senanayakes are the true heirs of the UNP and he is very deserving. The fact that the Party Chairman is our party's most senior member, Gamini Jayawickrema Perera is something we should all respect. They are our seniors and our leaders. So I have no reason whatsoever to criticise or challenge these appointments.



