BusinessWhere will the Road Map lead us to? The Central Bank (CB) last week presented its Road Map for Monetary & Fiscal Policy for the year 2009. It comes at a critical time when the economy is facing the fall-out from the global financial crisis and the consequent global recession.



 The CB having reviewed the current growth rate has scaled it down to 5% -5.5% for 2009. We will indeed be lucky to have such a growth rate when other countries are facing negative growth. The weakness in our economy stems from the external sector. Exports and imports contribute heavily to our growth rate and Gross Domestic Product. As we are net payers of factor income to foreigners, our GDP is reduced by the Net Factor Income which was Rs 2208 billion in 2007. The current account of the balance-of-payments showed a deficit of $3560 million in 2007.



 The export of goods during the first 10 months of 2008 slowed down to a growth of 9.5% over the previous year, while imports grew by a hefty 31.3%. 37% of our imports constituted of petroleum products- diesel, petrol furnace oil etc. We will benefit from lower oil prices in 2009 but to what extent? Large scale infrastructure investment projects which the Government has launched, would require larger imports of intermediate and capital goods. When domestic incomes increase consumption expenditure increases, and so will consumer expenditure on imported goods. So despite the fall in oil prices we will only run slightly smaller deficits on the Trade Account. 



 The CB expects imports to increase in the last quarter of 2008 by a mere 1%. But our exports will stagnate for the Rupee has appreciated in respect of the currencies of our competitors like Kenya and India, which depreciated by 20% while our depreciation is a mere 4% so far. The balance of trade in 2007 showed a deficit of $3560 million, and after setting off the remittances received from our migrant labour the current account deficit was $1369 million. A similar deficit in the current account for 2008 is also likely. 



 Inflows

 The current account deficit in 2007 was met by inflows under the Capital & Financial Account. But the 3rd quarter of 2008 showed a deficit in the over-all balance of payments. Yet the CB expects the deficit in 2009 also to be met by similar capital inflows in the over-all account. It expects net inflows at $491 million. This is indeed optimistic, given the current global financial crisis. This crisis has led to outflows of foreign exchange from the Government bond market and the stock market. 



 The CB says most of the hot money has already left. But there are still $ 212 million of foreign money in the bond market. There are no estimates of how much foreign money remains in the stock market. There are still commercial debts of the Government to be repaid, although the amount of such debt came down slightly in 2008.



 We cannot expect foreign commercial loans as the CB's efforts to raise such foreign loans have so far not borne fruit. Nor do we have Foreign Exchange Reserves to fund any current account deficit, plus such an outflow on the current account and debt repayments. The Official Foreign Exchange Reserves are down to $1600 million hardly sufficient for 1 1⁄2 months import. Will trade finance credit dry up?



 The CB blithely expects a surplus of $450 million in the over-all balance of payments for 2009. We do hope and pray that the CB is right and that this overall surplus will evenly spread throughout the year. What is more likely however is a serious balance-of-payments crisis in 2009.



 Currency swaps

 Despite its rosy forecasts the CB is exploring "currency swaps' with foreign central banks in the region similar to those entered into by China with the East Asian NICs. We hope the efforts of the CB will succeed. But would it not be more prudent to approach the Internal Monetary Fund as Pakistan and several other countries in Europe have already done? Such currency swaps for Rupees against convertible currencies are always available under the IMF arrangements. Of course the IMF will insist on laying down an austerity package which will include higher interest rates, faster depreciation of the Rupee and the removal of protectionist barriers to external trade. All these are necessary policy measures for we have lived beyond our means ever since 1977- the last year we had a surplus in the current account of the balance of payments. Where there is a deficit it means there are inadequate savings to fund the investments. 



 Budget deficits

 The Government has run budget deficits for the last several years and thus caused 'dis-savings'. The domestic savings investment gap in 2007 was Rs 368 billion while total domestic savings were Rs 628 billion. The private sector too needs savings to fund their investments. The Government is pre-empting resources from the private sector. The Government borrowing now exceeds the capacity of the bond markets to fund them. So the Government has to print money to fund public expenditure. 



 The Government ignores the need for cutting expenditure. The budget deficit to GDP ratio is coming down says the CB. But the magnitudes of such deficits are far too large and cannot be funded without either borrowing from abroad or printing money. The Government has now exhausted the possibility of borrowing from abroad. So it is constrained to print money unless it drastically reduces public expenditure both current and capital. It is not possible to increase taxation. The tax rates are already too high and are damaging the competitive position of our exports and domestic goods which have to face foreign competition. The latter may be protected by imposing high duties and cesses, but then the burden is on the consumer. The inevitable depreciation of the Rupee will increase domestic prices and incomes and worsen the current account deficit in the balance of payments and place undue downward pressure on the Rupee. The CB will no longer be in a position to protect the Rupee because it has more or less exhausted the Foreign Reserves. It needs to protect the present level of Foreign Reserves. So unlimited printing of money will mean the CB will lose control of the exchange value of the Rupee. 



 Flexibility

 Flexibility in the exchange rate, will be required to reverse the loss of international competitiveness that the country experienced during the artificial boom driven by the war, and Government infrastructure investment. Given the projected paths for monetary policy in 2009 it is difficult to foresee a stronger Rupee. This means that the necessary real exchange rate adjustment can only be brought about through changes in domestic prices and wages. 



 In other words, the "competitiveness channel" will be the key economic adjustment mechanism. For this mechanism to work properly, two things must happen. First, wage and price inflation have to ease to rates below those in our largest trading partners, and also below our competitor countries like India, Kenya, Malaysia, Thailand, Bangladesh etc. Since low (or even negative) inflation is projected in Europe and the United States, and in our competitor countries, this implies deflation is required and not inflation. Second, the improvement in competitiveness must affect trade performance. How likely is it that both these conditions will be met? The nominal effective exchange rate and output gap are important determinants of inflation differentials. It is not enough to prevent the appreciation of the nominal exchange rate of the Rupee. It must prevent such appreciation in the Real Exchange rate. 



 In addition, the CB forecast of economic growth for the economy is a contraction to 5-5.5%- a decline of at least 1-1.5%. The unemployment rate has come down to 5% owing to the recruitment to the forces and the export of migrant labour. But migrant labour is likely to come down and it will be impossible to prevent retrenchment in our industries particularly the export industries. Property prices are expected to drop significantly. There are no figures available of land and house prices- a lacuna that the CB must correct for better monitoring of the economy. Anecdotes by industrialists and other businessmen suggest that there will be retrenchment particularly as wages are heavily protected by labour laws. So nominal wages cannot fall and to reduce the wage bill the businesses will have to outsource their operations at best or retrench considerably at the worst.



 Employment is falling in some industries, especially construction and financial services. The Government has so far not taken any decisive action to lower public spending. As such the conditions for gains in competitiveness through deflation do not appear to be feasible. Real exchange rate depreciation will probably translate into noticeably faster export growth only when the global economy recovers. 



 The task for policymakers, therefore, is to convince the population of the need for a cut in wages (and living standards), thereby positioning the economy to benefit from that recovery which will eventually come. The Road Map has ignored this need for deflation 

 Sri Lanka Tourism recently announced their National Strategy aimed at increasing tourist arrivals to 1.5 million by 2016. The Strategy puts forward eight objectives aimed at developing tourism in Sri Lanka through short term and long term goals. 

 "We have informed the cabinet about the National Strategy," Ministry of Tourism Secretary, George Michael said at the media briefing where for the first time in Sri Lanka's Tourism history, a publication listing out the objectives and courses of action were handed out. "We have committed Rs. 1 billion for the plans listed out by the strategy and we hope this carefully formed strategy will resurrect Sri Lanka Tourism." 



 The National Strategy for Sri Lanka Tourism spells out strategies which aim at building a more diverse product range, making Sri Lanka more accessible to tourist, increase yield per tourist from US$ 80 a day to US$ 130 by 2016, grow domestic tourism, have 7000 additional rooms by 2016 and encourage new developments in the East and North West. 



 A Tourism Strategic Action Group has been formed based on the recommendations of the Minister of Tourism, Milinda Moragoda, which will bring together key stakeholders in the tourism industry enabling them to take quick decisions. The minister's opening statement lists out the major challenge faced by Sri Lanka Tourism. "Our small island has so much to offer that our common fault is not knowing which market to enter, which product to sell, and where we should place our limited resources."



 The objectives set out by the Strategy aims at meeting this challenge and as Michael explained deals with both long term and short term needs of the country. The eight objectives include improving and maintaining Short-Term Programmes, Marketing and communication, Services and hospitality, Training and development, MICE. Tourism, Domestic tourism, Grow the MSME (Micro, Small and Medium Sector Enterprises) Sector and finally a Ten-Year Plan aimed at a long term vision for tourism. 



 "We saw a dip in tourist arrivals in 2008," Michael went onto explain, "Arrivals were 432892 in 2007, but till November 2008 arrivals were only 389550." Michael is however confident that the figure would improve in 2009. "With our current promotional drive, we hope to reach 450000 arrivals this year."



 Tourism Development Authority Chairman Bernard Goonethilleke added his assurances. "The six markets we have targetted for intensive promotion are UK, Russia, China, Middle East, France and India, but we are seeing encouraging possibilities in Pakistan as well." Pakistan which is a market similar to the Middle East will be targeted with MICE and shopping promotions.

 With this objective in mind, Goonethilleke did not rule out the possibility of joining with budget carriers such as Mihin Air to promote tourism within the region. "We are also close to signing an MOU with the Indian States of Gujarat and Kerala where our state specific marketing campaign will be launched to promote Sri Lanka Tourism." On October 31, leaders of the Software and BPO industry came together to form the unified national IT/BPO industry association - Sri Lanka Association for Software and Services Companies (SLASSCOM) - to drive the advancement of the IT/BPO industry in Sri Lanka.



 SLASSCOM represents the fruition of a long felt need within the software and IT enabled services industry, for a unified, strong, and representative body that can speak with one voice, and provide inspired leadership to an industry that has tremendous potential to become the highest export earner for Sri Lanka. It is the culmination of months of deliberation, and a sustained effort made by a large number of committed individuals from the industry and the Information and Communication Technology Agency (ICTA) of Sri Lanka.



 The domestic and export IT/BPO industry in Sri Lanka is witnessing a tremendous growth due to the global IT/BPO market expansion, and growing domestic usage of ICT. The domestic IT adoption is also rising significantly driven by the eSri Lanka program and the initiatives taken by ICTA to re-engineer government processes, growth of telecom penetration, increase use of IT by corporations and strong focus on ICT education in schools by the government. 

 Although global recession has slowed down the growth in all sectors, use of technology and off shoring as means to reduce cost will continue to drive the growth of IT/BPO sector post the economic recovery. 



 This creates significant business opportunities for companies providing IT/BPO services in Sri Lanka. IT/BPO industry is well poised to take Sri Lanka to the knowledge economy to create wealth and employment for masses in Sri Lanka. It is the responsibility of the industry leaders, government and academia to make this a reality for the country. 



 To make this vision a reality, industry leaders have come together to create SLASSCOM, to pull together all resources and leadership capability to create a strong unified voice and a formidable execution engine to take affirmative and accelerated action to make the vision of IT/BPO industry becoming the number one industry in Sri Lanka a reality.



 Objective

 The primary objective of SLASSCOM is to act as a catalyst for the growth of the IT-BPO industry in Sri Lanka by facilitation of trade and business, influencing national policies, encouragement and advancement of research and innovation, propagation of education and employment and thereby enabling the growth of the Sri Lankan economy.



 Chairman of SLASSCOM and a recognised industry leader Ranjit Fernando said "While the setting up of SLASSCOM is a great step forward, its own objectives and that of the industry as a whole, can only be achieved, by focusing collectively and with a sense of urgency, on the many opportunities and challenges facing our industry."



 SLASSCOM Board consists of active industry leaders from leading IT and BPO companies in Sri Lanka.

 Industry leaders were unanimous in their views of the potential of the IT/BPO industry and the need for their collective effort to make this potential a reality for Sri Lanka.



 Potential

 "Sri Lanka has the potential to significantly expand its ITES capability, the formation of SLASSCOM represents a great opportunity to bring the focus and direction required to realize this potential" said Chris Rogers, Managing Director of HSBC Global Services Center which is the largest BPO operation in Sri Lanka.

 "SLASSCOM lays the foundation for the next phase of economic growth in Sri Lanka through the advancement of the IT/BPO industry" stated Mano Sekaram, CEO of Eurocenter. 



 Omar Fatha Rally, Chief Executive Officer, Hello Corp, Keith Modder, Managing Director & EVP Global Services, Virtusa Corporation, Dushan Soza, Managing Director, WNS, Naresh Ediriwira, Managing Director/CEO, Aranxa Software, and Sujiva Dewaraja, Executive Vice President, Head of IT Sector, John Keels Holdings, highlighted the need for urgent and bold actions from all stakeholders to drive the industry forward.



 Jayantha De Silva, Vice President South Asia and the Managing Director IFS Sri Lanka said "We are committed to bringing in significant growth for the Sri Lanka economy and high end technology jobs to our youth, thorough the growth of the IT/BPO industry". 



 "We have seen significant growth in the IT industry during the last five years. Despite the current temporary slowdown of global economies, IT and BPO sector will become one of the key sectors for Sri Lanka in the years ahead" Chief Executive Officer, hSehid and Vice President of SLASSCOM, Dinesh Saparamadu.



 Managing Director, Amba Research and Vice President of SLASSCOM said, "SLASSCOM aspires to become a driving force to make Sri Lanka a credible outsourcing destination and a centre of excellence for Financial and Accounting Outsourcing."



 Rationale

 SLASSCOM General Secretary and the General Manager of Virtusa Corporation, Madu Ratnayake said "The very rationale for setting up SLASSCOM, lies in the fact that collective effort benefits everyone. Every enterprise, big or small, adds strength to the cause, and we cordially invite all enterprises in the industry to become members of SLASSCOM. We are very encouraged by the strong response we have had up to now, and hope that every organization engaged in the IT/BPO industry will join SLASSCOM and contribute to make the industry vision a reality."



 The SLASSCOM General Council represents a wide cross section of companies from large to small in multiple sectors of the IT and BPO industry to ensure progressive thinking and wide representation of views direct the agenda of the association.



