BusinessIn estate transport, the production of palm bio-diesel based on waste oil and waste fats from biogenic origin can be used as fuel. The fossil fuel requirement will be displaced by this practice, thus effecting GHG emission reduction. There is already a UNFCCC methodology for such activity.



 The oil palm industry should also examine the applicability of Afforestation and Reforestation guidelines for oil palm plantations. As in the case of other tree crops, the existing plantations may not be eligible. But new plantations in abandoning chena land ( slash and burn cultivation) that have not been under forest cover on 31/12/1989, and also abundance of de-forested and logged over areas prior to this date that are available, are eligible 

 Climate change is considered as one of the most serious threats to sustainable development where its impacts on environment, human health, food security, economic activities, natural resources and physical infrastructure, are likely to be devastating. There have been, therefore, global plans to combat this menace since 1972, a period covering over 35 years. But still it remains a threat. 

 The first collective international political response really began in 1992, when the first treaty called the United Nations Frame Work Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) was adopted. This subsequently led to the creation on the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM).



 The Koyoto Protocol Clean Development Mechanism, has now passed the 1000th project milestone. This significant achievement reflected the success and redoubled efforts made to expand the mechanism. The CDM projects have thus far generated 135 million Certified Emission Reductions (CERs) and by the first commitment period from 2008 to 2012, it is expected to generate more than 2.7 million CERs. With the 1000 projects in 49 developing countries in just 2 1⁄2 years from 2005, the CDM has shown its potential, and is maturing to be a winner in the global field of Carbon Trading. It is clear that there is still much greater potential that can be realised while respecting the obligation of ensuring environmental integrity and making the mechanism as simple as possible. 



 Further, with the speed for market requirements to cut down the GHG emission, the ISO standards, ISO 14064 and ISO 14065 have been develop to quantify the GHG emissions in the entity, in project validation and verification. 



 Work is currently in progress to develop the Carbon Foot Print (CFP) standards for quantification and for communication on the eco-labels of products and services. With this CFP standards development, there will be harmonised methodologies for uniform measurements of carbon utilisation and reporting of carbon reduction efforts globally. This will progress further to less-carbon intensive products and services, thereby paving way for a low-carbon economy in the future. 

 Reductions in CFP in travelling is another area of priority.



 Oil Palm

 For the purpose of illustration, indicative values from Malaysia, one of the leading oil palm grower and oil palm CDM projects developer, are considered in this article.



 Malaysia produced around 15.88 million tons and 19.95 million tons of crude palm oil and palm kernel oil, respectively in 2006. This contribution is about 12% of the world production of 17 major oils and fats, which amounted to 22.8% of the world export of oils and fats, thus providing a steady supply of food, or oleo-chemicals and energy in global scenario.



 In the process of extracting these oils, a large volume of lingo-cellulosic bio-mass in the form of empty fruit bunches, fiber, shell and liquid effluent in the mill, while in the field, pruned fronds from harvests of ripe bunches and whole crown of fronds and trunks during replanting, are available.



 These cellulosic bio-masse especially those at the mills are readily available as steady sources of solid fuel for renewable energy production.

 The percentages of available bio-mass in every ton of fresh fruit bunches processed at the mill are illustrated in Table 1.

 The fiber and shell are usually burnt to generate steam and power for the mill. With more efficient boilers, it is expected that there will be excess shell and fiber available as solid fuel for other uses. 



 Surplus

 These surplus materials have in the past, returned to the field as dead mulches, but now, with increased demand for them as sources of renewable energy, they are utilised for such purposes. The fuel characteristics of oil palm bio-mass at the mill are indicated in Table 2. 



 Although in some aspects, palm bio-mass may not be as good as coal, it does not mean that it is inferior as a solid fuel, since in a different role, it may in fact enhance coal combustibility. 

 Based on the calorific value, it is estimated that, if the entire bio-mass produced in an year are used as energy source, it is equivalent to over 50 million barrels of oil ( Table 3).



 Renewable Energy

 As a potential renewable energy source available at the mill, greater use of it as an alternate fuel should be considered in view of the wide fluctuations in the price of fossil fuels. This has now dipped to around US$ 33 per barrel from US$ 145 per barrel in early 2008. With stabilistion of global economy by around end of 2009 or early 2010, the demand for fossil fuel is expected to rise, resulting in renouncing of fossil fuel prices- a very unstable scenario.



 Many mills have, therefore embarked on converting empty fruit bunches into more convenient and steady source of liquid and gaseous fuel for more specific uses based on techniques such as pyrolysis, gasification, bio conversation etc. Nevertheless as these technologies are still in the early stages of development, more R&D initiatives are required for commercialisation of such technologies. The CDM potential in such technologies are expected to accelerate R&D activities in the development of renewable energy program with the use of palm oil bio-mass. 



 Licences also have been provided to construct palm bio-mass power generation to the national grid in Malaysia, and it is expected that together with the incentive offered under CDM activity of the Koyoto protocol, this process will be accelerated.

 As it is, Malaysia has generated vast experience in palm oil CDM projects. To date, a total of 16 CDM projects involving palm bio-mass have been registered with the UNFCCC and CERs have been generated by fossil fuel displacement. 



 Since the introduction of CDM projects in Malaysian palm oil industry, a total of 21 projects have been submitted and to date 16 projects have been registered with UNFCCC, 6 projects under review and 11 projects are open for comments.



 The 16 registered oil palm bio-mass projects, have provided carbon credits in the region of 1,850,085 tCO2eq. The 6 other projects that have reached the review stage and 11 projects that are under comments from the public. When taken together, the potential CERs expected to be generated additionally in the near future is around 642,012. There are 40 more projects that are under consideration by the energy technical committee.



 The Annex 1, countries sponsoring the 16 registered projects are:- Canada / 4 ; Denmark / 3 ; Japan / 3 ; UK / 3 ; France / 1 ; Germany / 1 and Switzerland / 1.

 Some uses of palm bio-mass in emission reduction by fossil-fuel-displacement are listed in Table 4. A total of 428,045 CERs have been issued, indicating that the emission reductions were verified, certified and issued. All these are expected to, in addition to providing monitory gains, cause mitigating effects on the impact of climate change, a very significant contribution to environmental management. 



 Opportunities to limit GFG in plantations

 Although the opportunities in the palm oil mill have been discussed at length, there are also ample opportunities in the field in plantations for GHG emission reduction. 

  Plantations, with the use of leguminous plants, can reduce the use of nitrogenous fertilisers thereby minimising volatilisation of N2O, another potent GHG with 290 global warming units. In other words, 1 ton of N2O has the potential of global warming equivalent to 290 t of CO2.



  In estate transport, the production of palm bio-diesel based on waste oil and waste fats from biogenic origin can be used as fuel. The fossil fuel requirement will be displaced by this practice, thus effecting GHG emission reduction. There is already a UNFCCC methodology for such activity.



  The oil palm industry should also examine the applicability of Afforestation and Reforestation guidelines for oil palm plantations. As in the case of other tree crops, the existing plantations may not be eligible. But new plantations in abandoning chena land ( slash and burn cultivation) that have not been under forest cover on 31/12/1989, and also abundance of de-forested and logged over areas prior to this date that are available, are eligible.



  Tree-crops play a significant role in the carbon cycle of eco system. They transport carbon both into and out of eco system through photosynthesis, respiration and regeneration ( death, fall-off etc) CDM in plantations are therefore a complicated activity and several aspects need rationalisation.



  As CDM is a market mechanism, it is still under development. New areas are being explored and new rules are being established, so that the institutional frame work must remain efficient in order to promote as a key tool for GHG emission reduction and use it to combat climate change. 



 Challenges 

 The CDM projects are now distributed over 49 developing countries, and in the future it is likely that many new areas and very volatile markets for plantation producers will spur other plantation industries also to follow. Globally, there is already an effort made to expand the CDM projects in Africa. 



 The challenge for CDM activities is to promote positive impacts and avoiding risk of negative effects during the design, implementation and monitoring process. The positive socio-economic impact includes improvement of local income, diversification of production, improved land tenure and participation of local groups in planning, decision making and increased access to capacity building. Likewise, positive impacts of CDM activities on environment are better bio-diversity conservation, improvement in bio-diversity index and reduction of soil degradation.



 CDM in plantations is workable in Sri Lanka. The oil palm industry although small, should follow the lead given by oil palm industries in other countries e.g. Malaysia. Other tree crops sectors should take advantage of the valuable experience gained by the oil palm industry and follow the lead given by this industry. There are several avenues open for diversified activities. 



 Unfortunately for rubber, another potential plantation industry for CDM project, there has still not been a single rubber CDM project registered with the UNFCCC. The CDM potential in rubber sector includes, besides the CO2 sequestration or sink in plantations, primary processing of dry rubber ( bio-mass gasifiers ), methane emission reduction from processing effluents-biogas production, avoidance of deforestation by using rubber wood as alternative source of timber and fire wood and in the rubber product manufacturing sector e.g. energy efficiency during mastication, NR-SR substitution, rubberized bitumen for road construction, NR seed oil as bio-diesel, reducing rolling assistance of tyres etc.



 Way Forward 

 There may be much excitement as we move forward to the post 2012 period. There is a need for hard negotiation, and the focus will be on the development of the Carbon Foot Print standards. A Carbon Foot Print program should include the CFP emissions from production, processing, manufacturing, distribution and end product uses over the whole life cycle of the plantation products. This will then pave the way for the plantation industry to go for less carbon intensive technologies and products, and ultimately to move the industry into a low-carbon economy. The challenge is, how soon can the industry adapt to this change?

 Agencies in plantations development should work together to mobilise the industry to set-up the regulatory frame work, so as to utilise the CDM and other changes that are made to this mechanism from time to time, and to ensure that environmental integrity is enhanced. 



 Email : dr.yoga@yahoo.com



