Politics• UNP delays debate on no faith motion

 • Army Chief refutes Ranil's views on Kili victory

 • Future of green party symbol hangs in balance The UNP last month submitted a no confidence motion against the government, charging that by entering into an oil hedging deal with five commercial banks, the government had lost revenue to the tune of Rs. 25 billion. 

 UNP Leader Ranil Wickremesinghe, General Secretary Tissa Attanayake, Chairman Gamini Jayawickrema Perera, Chief Opposition Whip Joseph Michael Perera and MPs John Amaratunga, Dayasiri Jayasekera and Renuka Herath signed the no faith motion. 



 The no faith motion was included into the Parliamentary agenda, without a date being specified for it to be taken up for debate. However, as soon as Parliament was reconvened after the December vacation earlier this week, the UNP at a party leader's meeting demanded that the no confidence motion be taken up for debate immediately. 

 Joseph Michael Perera told the House that the UNP needed at least two days to debate the motion. Leader of the House Nimal Siripala De Silva retorted that the government was ready to face the debate that very week. Although two subsequent party leaders' meetings were held over the week, no decision was reached about the matter. 

 Finally, the decision was left up to Speaker W.J.M. Lokubandara who set the date as Friday (9) for the debate. The Speaker told party leaders that he had reached this decision after having studied the standing orders of Parliament and the precedents set in the British Parliament. 



 Date change

 However, the UNP then requested a date change claiming that the party did not have enough time to summon his MPs and also because the Opposition Leader was to go overseas in the near future. Leader of the House De Silva refused to agree with Perera's request for postponement. As a result, the debate was scheduled for Friday (9) and the UNP MPs decided that they would stage a boycott of all Parliamentary debates in protest. De Silva charged that the UNP was unable to face the debate because of the government's recent military victories, the standoff between the executive and the judiciary with regard to the Supreme Court order on the petrol pricing and the inability of the UNP to obtain the support of the JVP and other opposition parties for its no faith motion. However, UNP MP Dayasiri Jayasekera claimed that the UNP was boycotting to protest the recent attack on the MTV/MBC studio and the killing of senior Journalist and Editor of The Sunday Leader Lasantha Wickrematunga. 



 Although the UNP requested two days for the no faith debate, the government had decided to finish the debate within a day. At a recent government parliamentary group meeting, President Mahinda Rajapaksa had instructed his MPs to debate till nightfall if necessary but conclude the debate within the course of one day. 



 However, ironically, UNP MPs themselves were overheard saying that going by the experience of the third reading of the Budget in December, it was unlikely whether the UNP could sustain the debate for even half a day's session. Joseph Michael Perera requested that the debate be put off for the third week of January claiming that he was finding it difficult to gather his MPs together for the debate. The argument proves incongruous since the people's representatives are duty bound to attend Parliament on days it is sitting, given the vast amount of public funds that are being spent towards keeping the complex open and preparing it for the day's session. 



 As it is, a meagre number of UNP MPs attend sittings on ordinary Parliament days. Under the circumstances, it is impossible to think that the main opposition will be able to sustain, let alone pass, a vote of no confidence against the government. 

 The first item on the Parliament agenda on Friday was the no confidence motion. However, not a single UNP MP stood up to present the motion. Instead, the UNP MPs staged a massive protest in Parliament over the killing of Lasantha Wickrematunga. 



 As the rest of the country was celebrating the armed forces victory in Kilinochchi last week, sentiments expressed by UNP Leader Ranil Wickremesinghe and several senior members of that party became the cause of public disdain. While the TNA has expressed mixed reactions to the capture of the strategic LTTE stronghold and de facto capital, the reaction has been one of jubilation from all other sections of the populace. 



 After Kilinochchi

 However, the day after the Kilinochchi capture, Wickremesinghe was to tell a Central Province candidate fundraiser in Kandy: "The troops have now captured Kilinochchi. The government has run out of excuses. Now there is no excuse to not lower the prices of petrol, diesel and kerosene immediately!" 



 Meanwhile, a statement made by UNP MP Ravi Karunanayake in Parliament where he said that the government was making up the military victories and claiming to have caught 'Alimankada' when it has only secured 'Pamankada' was replayed over and over on the state controlled Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation. UNPer John Amaratunga although praising the Kilinochchi victory went on to severely criticise Army Commander Lt. Gen. Sarath Fonseka, which seriously upset the people who were celebrating the military victories. 



 However, Party Assistant Leader Rukman Senanayake wholeheartedly congratulated the armed forces for their victory in the north. 



 Making matters worse, Wickremesinghe at a recent media conference was to state that the capture of Kilinochchi became possible only because of the 2002 ceasefire that afforded Sri Lankan troops foreign training and allowed the Army access to weapons procurement from overseas. Wickremesinghe was also to state that the Karuna Amman split was a by-product of the 2002 CFA. 



 However, in an interview with a newspaper recently, Army Commander Fonseka was to refute all these charges saying that the ceasefire gave the LTTE ample opportunities to regroup and arm themselves. The Army Chief said that while in the past the Army only recovered small arms and ammunition from Tiger hideouts, now they were contending with an air wing, heavy artillery and two fully fledged TV channels being broadcast in the north east. As for the Karuna Amman split, the Commander was to tell the newspaper the questions were better posed to the TMVP leader himself. 



 To protest the statements made by Wickremesinghe and Karunanayake, government supporters in the Kaduwela and Kotte areas held a demonstration at the Parliament round about on Tuesday. 



 The Grand Opposition Alliance comprising the UNP, SLFP Mahajana Wing, SLMC and Western People's Front has run into troubled waters about a dispute over the party symbol. The alliance partners led by Mangala Samaraweera and Tiran Alles are demanding that the UNP's elephant symbol and green colours be changed to a more neutral one, which would attract SLFP and other parties to the alliance. However, senior UNPers are vehemently opposed to doing away with the elephant symbol or the traditional green party colours. 



 Working Committee

 Last Tuesday, Wickremesinghe held a Working Committee meeting at Cambridge Terrace to discuss the matter. However, party insiders told this column that shortly before the meeting, Wickremesinghe held talks with loyalists John Amaratunga, Akila Viraj Kariyawasam and Sagala Ratnayake about the dissolution of the UNP's Political Affairs Committee. However, during the Working Committee meeting none of these members were to make any mention of the discussion. 



 However, party sources indicate that Wickremesinghe and his loyalists are keen to dissolve the Political Affairs Committee because it is believed the committee is blocking the changing of the party symbol to the Samaraweera prescribed white lotus. UNP members are of the view that the party symbol need not be changed to accommodate SLFPers. They argue that even when S.B. Dissaanayake broke away from the SLFP with seven others, none of them demanded that the UNP's symbol be changed. 



 At the Working Committee meeting on Tuesday, Wickremesinghe said that although 23 committees had been appointed to look into various matters, nothing was being done in this regard. He said that in order to arrest this situation the tasks would be assigned to individual members. "Three people in the Political Affairs Committee are leaking everything discussed in the committee to the press. Therefore, we must also dissolve the Political Affairs Committee. Please tell me your views on this," Wickremesinghe said, but was met with stony silence by the Working Committee. 



 The UNP's Political Affairs Committee is appointed each year by the Party Leader. However, Sirikotha sources say that for 2009 the committee is yet to be appointed. The sources add that because of these delays, the new opposition alliance cannot be registered as a political party.



