BusinessThe market demonstrated a lackluster trading week with low level of investor participation and thin volumes. Key, All Share Price Index (ASPI) recorded 1,523.3 losing 46.2 points WoW and more liquid Milanka Price Index (MPI) depicted 1,635.4 shedding 61.5 points WoW. Uncertainty erupting from the global economic conditions continued to pressurize the indices. Gloomy outlook dominated throughout the week except on Wednesday where the market revived with low gains. Foreign participation represented only 9.6% of the total market activity and ended as net buyers of Rs.35.6mn. Average daily turnover for the week stood at Rs.70.1mn.



 Monday, the first trading day of the week ASPI decreased 17.5 points to 1,560.9 while MPI declined 28.5 points to end at 1,668.3. The market saw active trading in the morning session yet could not sustain the momentum towards the latter part of the day. Turnover was recorded Rs.139.2mn with Ceylinco Insurance (Rs.59.2mn) significantly contributing to the day's turnover. Active trading was witnessed from Lanka Cement, John Keells, Chemical Industries, Janashakthi Insurance, Touchwood and Seylan bank.



 The market continued the negative trend on Tuesday, where ASPI diminished 11.5 points to 1,549.5 and MPI stood at 1,654.4 losing 13.9 points. Declined prices of blue chip counters as John Keells,

 Commercial Bank and Distilleries impacted adversely on the indices. Ceylinco Insurance recorded a crossing amounting to Rs.19.0mn (100,000 shares at Rs.190 per share) and pumped up the day's turnover of Rs.53.0mn.



 Colombo bourse revived on Wednesday, with both indices recording gains, where ASPI recorded 1,550.1 with a marginal gain, and MPI augmented 18.6 points to register 1,672.9. Price levels of most blue chip counters as SLTL, Dialog, John Keells and Commercial bank remained flat at the end of the day. The turnover for the day was Rs.46.8mn while Ceylinco Insurance dominated the turnover for the third consecutive day. Lanka Cement, Vallibel and John Keells Holdings were the actively contributed counters for the day.



 On Thursday, the turnover recorded Rs.92.9mn and both indices recorded losses. ASPI closed at 1,542.40 declining 7.7 points and MPI dropped 24.5 points to close at 1,648.5. Low market sentiment dominated throughout the day with investors remaining in sidelines. Ceylinco Insurance continued to top the turnover with recording Rs.50.4mn. John Keells and Seylan non voting actively contributed to the turnover.



 Both the main indices further came down on the last trading day of the week with turnover recording only Rs.18.5mn which is the lowest in the week. Lack of liquidity was evident with low volumes. ASPI ended low at 1,532.3 losing 10.2 points and MPI shed 13.1 points to close at 1,635.4. Tea Small Holders was the highest contributor to the turnover.



 Trade deficit narrowed in November 2008 for second consecutive month

 Sri Lanka's export income grew 11.6%YoY to US$645.1mn in November 2008, however recorded the lowest monthly earnings since May 2008. Improved earnings from the key textile and garment exports were the main contributor to the growth with a 22.6%YoY growth to US$287.1mn during the month.



 This is mainly due to increased contributions from the garments exported to the USA and the UK. Tea lead agricultural exports declined 8.9%YoY to US$125.9mn in November 2008 with the global



 commodity bubble burst that resulted in low prices for tea, rubber etc. Tea exports plunged 10.7% in November 2008 to US$87.1mn due to weakening income levels in the key Middle East countries following hampered crude oil prices. Total industrial exports grew 18.7%YoY to US$512.5mn in November 2008, resulting in a 9.7%YoY increase to US$7,456.0mn in Jan.-Nov.2008.



 Expenditure incurred on imports recorded a 3.1%YoY decline for the first time in 2008 to US$977.7mn in November 2008 to the lowest monthly value since March 2008. This is mainly due to low investment goods imported to the country. Imports of investment goods came down by 28.5% YoY to US$199.8mn following the stagnating construction industry in the country which resulted in low demand for machinery and equipments. This is also the lowest monthly investment goods reported since May 2007 (however in Jan.-Nov.2008 it has increased 11.3%YoY to US$2,685.2mn). In addition, reducing crude oil prices also have partly contributed to the positive trend. Cost on petroleum imports declined 29.6% in November 2008 (+45.2%YoY to US$3,173.3mn in Jan.-Nov.2008). Imports of consumer goods rose 6.1%YoY to US$175.6mn in November 2008 and 31.5%YoY to US$2,357.1mn in Jan.-Nov.2008 mainly due to importation of wheat in November 2008. Success due to customer satisfaction and excellent delivery says CEO "Tigo is proud to have touched 2 million subscribers last year. Our success is because we give our customers what they expect from a mobile service provider, simplicity and honesty delivering the best value today and tomorrow" said CEO Dumindra Ratnayaka.



 The company's growth can be attributed to network expansion, the strength of the brand and excellent customer service.

 2008 saw heavy investment by the company to expand the network adding an average of 40 towers a month. Tigo customers can now enjoy an excellent coverage where ever they travelled within the country.

 After Tigo's launch two years ago the brand has stayed true to its core values of simplicity and honesty, whilst launching benefits that clearly resonated with customers such as:



 * Per second billing – pay only what you use

 * Life time bonus with every reload – rewarding customers for their loyalty up to 30% bonus

 * All incoming free – paying for what you use having the freedom to communicate.

 "We have continuously demonstrated Tigo's commitment to enable customers to freely express themselves at very affordable rates, central to Tigo's global theme in delivering Affordability, Accessibility and Availability to our customers." added Ratnayaka.

 Customer focus



 Tigo's strong customer focus has paid off well for the company. A research carried out by Nielson, reveals that Tigo tops the list for best customer satisfaction, across several factors including value for money, network quality and customer service.

 "This simply means hat our customers are the happiest customers. Satisfied customers bring in other customer, that's why we grow continuously".



 "The way we define a customer is the strictest in the country, which is why we normally do not disclose the size of our customer base. At Tigo,a customer is only called a customer if he has received or has made a phone call during the last two months. Because of this strict definition, all at Tigo can be particularly proud of achieving this benchmark" concluded Ratnayaka.

 Tigo Sri Lanka is a subsidiary of Millicom International Cellular S.A., a global telecommunications group with mobile telephony operations in 16 countries in Asia, Latin America and Africa. It also operates cable and broadband businesses in five countries in Central America. The Group's mobile operations have a combined population under license of approximately 291 million people. 2009- 'Year of Battle for Customers' for airline industry 

 The Airline industry around the world will face severe challenges during 2009 in spite having benefits of fuel reduction, said SriLankan Airline Chief Executive Officer, Manoj Gunwardene.

 Addressing the media later in the week, Gunwardene explained that airlines around the world were facing large drops in customers, and that several companies in the industry had commenced capacity cuts to avoid large scale losses.

 "Even though there are large benefits available for the airline industry such as the drastic reductions in fuel, the industry is facing a large drop in the number of customers travelling abroad," he said.



 Gunawardene added that year 2009 has been dubbed as the 'Year of Battle For Customers' in the industry since many airlines have started trying to attract more customers. " Although SriLankan airlines will not be affected drastically, we cannot take our customers for granted. At this point, the industry has to reward our customers with benefits," he said.



 He added that the majority of customers are reluctant to spend much on travelling when they are facing an economic downturn. The Government has decided to open the Rupee denominated Treasury bill and Treasury bond market for the Sri Lankan diaspora and migrant workforce with effect from 6th January, 2009. This new initiative was announced in the Central Bank's 'Road Map: Monetary and Financial Sector Policies for 2009 and beyond'. Through this scheme, it is expected to widen the investor base, diversify the Government Securities market, make it more convenient for Sri Lankans living abroad to access Government Securities, and to create a more stable Government securities market. This scheme will also provide a safe and highly liquid investment opportunity for Sri Lankans living abroad, while providing them with an attractive return on their investments. 



 To facilitate this endeavour which is expected to cover almost the entire globe, six Joint Lead Managers, namely, Bank of Ceylon, Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC, National Savings Bank, NatWealth Securities Ltd., People's Bank and Sampath Bank have been appointed. This programme initially be launched in selected regions from January, 2009 onwards. The regions will include the Middle East (Dubai, Abu Dhabi, Kuwait, Jordan, Lebanon, Qatar, Bahrain, Saudi Arabia and Oman), Europe (Italy, France, Switzerland, Germany, The Netherlands and UK), North America (USA and Canada), Asia (South Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, Japan, India and Bangladesh). In addition, the programme will cover Australia and New Zealand.



 Investments in Treasury bills or Treasury bonds could be channelled through any one of the Joint Lead Managers, using the Treasury bill/bond Investment External Rupee Account-D (TIERA-D) to be opened by the investor for that purpose. Remittances into and out of TIERA-D accounts would be free from exchange controls.



 Through this scheme, Sri Lankans living abroad, including: (a) Sri Lankans who have made their permanent residence overseas (Non-residents), (b) citizens of Sri Lanka who have taken up overseas employment or set up business abroad, (c) citizens of Sri Lanka with dual citizenship living in Sri Lanka or abroad, (d) Sri Lankan professionals living in Sri Lanka or abroad who earn income in foreign currency, and (e) banks acting in a fiduciary capacity on behalf of the above categories, would, from now onwards, be permitted to invest in Treasury bills and Treasury bonds, as well as receive interest, capital gains and maturity proceeds to the credit of any bank account in Sri Lanka or abroad. Filling a vital gap in debt management services, the Sri Lanka Banks Association is launching a social initiative in the form of a Credit Counselling Centre commencing 19th January 2009. Aptly titled "Upadeshana", the centre will be located at the Central Bank's Centre for Banking Studies in Rajagiriya, with services extended to locations in provincial towns. Borrowers who are facing difficulty with their payments, will have a team of specially trained advisors with skill, understanding and knowledge in banking and finance to help them manage their funds and repayments and get back on track. Their services will be made available free of charge. 



 "The need for Credit Counselling is being strongly felt in this country, and financial management is relevant to both individuals who borrow and institutions that lend," said the Secretary General of the SLBA Upali de Silva. The service will be a boon for small and medium scale entrepreneurs, as well as individuals who have obtained personal loans or credit card facilities without much thought of the practical aspects of paying back. 



 The "Upadeshana" Centre will help defaulters to review their financial situation and come up with a viable solution to meet their obligations. What they will not do however is to get loans negated or waived. Nor will the Counselling Service make recommendations of various credit schemes on offer. The service is primarily to get the borrower to re-look at his or her resources and re-channel them in a way that would get the payments and business back on track. 



 "The service comes at a time where there is global concern about credit and financial stability" said Ms. Siromi Wickramasinghe who will head the Upadeshana Centre. "The SLBA has the support of the Central Bank as a part of an endeavour to strengthen Sri Lanka's financial services sector."



 Assistant Governor of the Central Bank Ms. Rose Cooray, speaking of the need to provide "financial education" for borrowers said: "The Central Bank has identified the concept of credit counselling, as a vital step in helping both the membership of the Banks' Association, as well as the customers who have obtained credit and find they are unable to pay back, perhaps because their financial circumstances have changed."



 Several countries operate credit counselling services to keep defaulting in loan repayments to a minimum. While Sri Lanka is ahead in banking compared to other Asian countries, till now there has been little help to minimise the defaulting of loan repayments or the misuse of credit card facilities. Notwithstanding the adverse circumstances brought about by the global economic downturn, exports grew by 11.6 per cent in November 2008, year-on-year, to record earnings of US dollars 645 million. This was led by the 18.7 per cent growth in the industrial exports, particularly the textiles and garments exports, which grew by 22.6 per cent. While a major portion of these textiles and garments reached the USA (41 per cent), a significant quantum was exported to the UK (27 per cent) and the other European countries (23 per cent). Within the industrial exports, the food, beverages and tobacco as well as the diamond and jewellery categories too performed well, compared to the corresponding period last year. 



 Subsided

 However, year-on-year growth in many other sub-sectors, including machinery and equipment, subsided in November 2008 in view of the dampened global demand for goods and services. 

 Earnings from agricultural exports slumped by 8.1 per cent in November 2008, year-on-year, largely due to issues in the tea and rubber sectors. Earnings from tea exports slumped by 10.8 per cent mainly due to price reductions in the international market. However, the Colombo auction prices remains higher than at other auction centers. Despite the 10 per cent increase in export volumes, earnings from rubber exports also dipped by 7.7 per cent in November, year-on-year, due to the 16.1 per cent reduction in prices. 



 The minor agricultural crop exports, which have been a significant contributor to export earnings in recent times, depicted a reversal of its growth trend in November 2008, sliding 22.7 per cent, year-on-year. Cumulative exports proceeds in 2008 amounted to US dollars 7,456 million, upto November, reflecting an increase of 9.7 per cent over the previous year. The Government intervention in the form of a stimulus package will help shield the export industries from the impending global recession.



 Declined

 Imports, which have shown significant increases in recent months, have declined by 3.1 per cent in November 2008, year-on-year to US dollars 977.7 million, over 50 per cent of which was intermediate goods comprising textiles, petroleum products and fertilizers. Reflecting the trends in the petroleum sector, the expenditure on petroleum products decreased by 29.6 per cent in November, year-on-year. The substantial increase in fertiliser imports in November, amounting to US 72 million, is largely due to enhanced import volumes. Consumer goods increased in November 2008, led by imports of wheat, which was not imported in the corresponding month of 2007. Imports of investment goods subsided by 28.5 per cent in November 2008, year-on-year, mainly due to the contraction in imports of machinery and equipment and building materials. The cumulative expenditure on imports during the first eleven month period amounted to US dollars 12,960 million, which reflects an increase of 27.9 per cent over the corresponding period of 2007. 



 As a result, the trade deficit contracted for the first time in 2008, by 22.9 per cent to US dollars 332.6 million in November 2008. The cumulative deficit in the trade balance expanded to US dollars 5,504 million during the first eleven months of the year, compared to the deficit of US dollars 3,338 million for the corresponding period previous year. The low import growth witnessed during the last two months is expected to prevail throughout a greater part of 2009.



 Private remittances, which increased during the period January-November 2008 to US dollars 2,682 million, helped contain the current account deficit. Consequently, the gross official reserves with and without Asian Clearing Union (ACU) funds, recorded US dollars 2,608 million and US dollars 2,030 million respectively, by end November, 2008, which were sufficient to finance around 2.2 and 1.7 months of imports, respectively.



