SportsSri Lanka's chance of getting India down for a five-match one-day series next month rests solely on the appointment of a new interim committee chairman to administer Sri Lanka Cricket. The Board of Control for Cricket in Sri Lanka (BCCI), as reports suggest, is keeping a close watch on the developments in Sri Lanka before committing themselves to the tour. 



 The BCCI already has a bitter experience during Arjuna Ranatunga's 11-month tenure as interim chairman where cordial relations built between the two Cricket Boards over the years became strained by the unwarranted remarks and actions made against them by the former captain.



 The BCCI certainly want to make sure that Ranatunga who is also a member of parliament won't be allowed to make a comeback as chairman of SLC. Ranatunga was sacked as chairman of SLC and the interim committee dissolved by the Sports Minister on December 23. Sri Lanka cricket is at present run by a Sports Minister appointed competent authority, S Liyanagama, who is liaising with SLC CEO Duleep Mendis until such time a proper chairman is installed and a new interim committee appointed.



 A news report in 'The Telegraph' quoting BCCI sources stated: "a 'commitment' must first be made on the availability of Sri Lankan players for edition No.2 of the Indian Premier League (IPL), from April 10-May 24." The other factor is Ranatunga. The BCCI made it quite clear that it would have no dealings with SLC as long as Ranatunga was its chairman which would have been detrimental to SLC because it needs India's support if they are to boost their dwindling coffers. 



 More than two weeks have elapsed since Ranatunga was removed from the high pedestal and in that time he has turned down the offer of a deputy ministership and is making attempts to stage a comeback. The longer the delay in appointing a new interim committee the more advantageous it is going to be for the former captain to draw public sympathy by coming up with various ruses which he has been performing behind the scenes.



 The latest one is through parliament to accuse SLC's CEO of malpractice while extending the television contract with Taj Television. By doing that Ranatunga is trying to destabilise the running of the day to day activities of SLC. Once Mendis is immobilised as CEO on alleged charges it would pave the way for a Ranatunga appointed individual who is presently head of cricket operations to succeed him. 



 Mendis has subsequently denied the charges brought against him and issued a press statement to the effect: "Further to the various media articles that have appeared with allegations against me. I would like to categorically deny these baseless and irresponsible allegations. To date, I have not been given any kind of a formal charge sheet by any person in authority. 



 "As such I wish to state that I am very proud to have represented my country from the commencement of my cricketing career as a national player, national captain, team manager/advisor and development manager at Sri Lanka Cricket and assumed my present duties as the Chief Executive of Sri Lanka Cricket in the year 2004. 



 "I also wish to state that I have carried out my duties honestly and diligently and with the best interest of Sri Lanka Cricket, the players and the staff at Sri Lanka Cricket and the country at heart."



 Sad to say, the media manager appointed by the Ranatunga administration went to great lengths to discourage certain newspapers from carrying the clarification. He has been asked by the CEO to tender his resignation following the sacking of Ranatunga which he has not done hoping that the 'big man' would return. 



 Another ruse adopted by the former captain is to get sufficient signatories from former Sri Lanka cricketers to present a petition to the government to reappoint him as interim chairman. The Nation learns a meeting to this effect was held at Ranatunga's residence where the majority present was Sri Lanka cricketers who had made only a handful of appearances for their country. They were not aware of what the meeting was all about until they arrived at the destination. 



 What all this implies is that sooner the government appoints a new interim committee the better it will be for Sri Lanka cricket who otherwise will lose the opportunity of getting India down for a one-day series which would certainly boost their virtually empty reserves.



