InterviewsFrom 1944 every political party has been selfishly taking decisions that give scant regard to the future of the nation. This is why the country is still bleeding, says Constitutional Affairs Minister D.E.W. Gunesekara Constitutional Affairs Minister D.E.W. Gunesekara says Sri Lanka has a history of missed opportunities. Going back as far as 1944, he says when the State Council first recommended that Sinhala and Tamil be made official languages, the various political parties at that time could not reach a consensus on it. From there on, he says, every political party has only been selfishly taking decisions, giving scant regard for the future of the nation. "This is why the country is still bleeding. Even now, why can't the so called major political parties – the UNP and the SLFP, agree to agree on something common, at least for the sake of the country? Take for instance the APRC. What has gone wrong? Why can't political parties reach a consensus, so that we can find a settlement to the ethnic question?" he queried, during an interview with The Nation. 



 Following are excerpts 

Q: The fall of Kilinochchi has been the week's hot story. What is your opinion about the fall?

 A: This is not the first time that Kilinochchi has fallen. The fall of Kilinochchi took place earlier also. The significance in the military operation at present is that from the time the operation actually started in August 2006 with the Mawilaru attack, the Government troops had been able to go on steadily without any major hiccup, until they captured Kilinochchi. 

 Now to me, this is unprecedented in the history of the military operation. The Government Forces have been able to reduce LTTE's land area, which has never happened before. If I may say further, I think this is purely due to political leadership.

 Unlike in the past, this time there has been proper political as well as military leadership to the ongoing conflict. And this is why we were able to see some positive results. Firstly the political leadership did not interfere with the Armed Forces. For the first time the Armed Forces and the Police acted together. And they decided upon their military strategy. Earlier there were internal problems within the Armed Forces. Also this time the Armed Forces tried various methods and strategies to defeat the LTTE. The LTTE at times resorted to conventional war, then guerrilla type of war and then they were using their suicide cadres. This was followed by holding innocent civilians as human shields and so on. But nevertheless, our Forces were able to counter every measure accordingly. For instance, if I may say further, the Forces also tried guerrilla type of war at some stage. I think the present Government has formulated its defence strategy from the past experiences. 



Q: Conversely, the LTTE has been losing not only the land space but mass support as well. Even internationally, there has not been any sympathy to the group. Why do you think?

 A: Simply because of LTTE intransigence and belligerence that the people thought it was best to distance themselves from the LTTE. This also worked to the advantage of the Government Forces. So internationally also there were no support. India did not want to support. Whoever who comes to power in India, in my view will not help LTTE. You see, the international community by and large, for the last three decades or so have been trying to build the gap, and find a solution. But the LTTE only overestimated its own strength, and paid no heed to the call of the international community. This was also seen as an insult to the international community. I don't think the LTTE was ready for an alternate settlement. All over the world, guerrilla groups do have political as well as military leadership. But in the LTTE, it is only the military leadership that has been taking decisions for a political struggle. As a result the cause they were fighting for, also got shifted. That is why all these factors were playing in favour of the Armed Forces.



 Q: Could this defeat be described at least as a partial solution to the Tamil question? 

 A: I think opportunities are being opened for a political solution. We should not miss this opportunity. We have a history of missed opportunities. In the task of nation building, some of these problems could have been resolved by the earlier Heads of State. In 1944 the State Council recommended that Sinhala and Tamil be made official languages. But this recommendation was not taken seriously. If they had done so, this problem could have been finished by now. Subsequently there had been several political pacts like Dudley-Chelvanayagam pact and Bandaranaike-Chelvanayagam pact and Indo-Sri Lanka act and so forth. But nothing worked. So I think it is high time that we grabbed this opportunity to find a solution. 



Q: The Government, while being elated with the initial military victory in the north, has not so far spoken about a political package. Why do you think?

 A: I think as I said earlier, we must not miss the opportunity this time. But my worry is that this time there are additional actors to the claim. For instance the JHU and JVP are a force to reckon with, to play to the gallery. So the Government also finds it very difficult to come out with a concrete proposal on anything. But yet I say that the responsibility to build the nation lies in the hands of the two major political parties – the UNP and the SLFP. Very unfortunately these two parties do not see eye to eye. So then the problems in the country will go on unabated. The fact is, 85 % of the voters are from the two major parties and if they don't move together nothing can happen. Primarily it is that. Let me cite one classic example. When Sirimavo was the Prime Minister, Dudley Senanayake was the Opposition leader. When the Premier wanted to find a solution to the citizenship problem of the plantation workers, Senanayake willingly helped her. And today, these people are able to vote and enjoy life in whatever possible manner. If this problem was not solved that day, terrorism from the hill country too would have come to our door steps. This is called the statesmanship. So my question is why can't these two major parties think alike for the sake of the country?



 Q: What is the progress of the APRC? 

 A: There is no progress, and this is again for the same reason. The political parties are not able to reach a consensus on certain issues. APRC Chairman Prof. Tissa Vitarana the other day in Parliament, made an appeal to the political parties not to sit on their policies, but to come to a compromise to solve the problem. But I don't think the political parties are willing to cooperate.

 Q: Does finding a solution to the ethnic question only depend on the outcome of the APRC findings? Can't the Government evolve a different mechanism to ease the tension of the minority? 

 A: APRC need not be the only way to find a solution. We can introduce another method. But what will happen? Don't you think that the same political parties will have to sit together and give their consent? And do you think that there again, there would be a consensus? This is ridiculous. The same people who opposed the APRC, will do the same thing there as well. So we must learn to first agree on something. This is the view of the President also. This is why the President appointed the APRC. Otherwise he could have suggested something.



 Q: What is the Government's immediate next step in the fight against terrorism?

 A: Well we have to concentrate on the people's aspirations, and then the speedy economic and social development for the Northern Province. Today, the Western Province accounts for 51 % of GDP while Northern Province accounts for only three percent. The East is about between four to five percent. Even in the Uva Province the GDP is around five percent. From the dawn of independence, it is only the Western Province that has been developed. All the key ministers in our history have been Colombo based. At the time of independence the agriculture sector accounted for 60% of the GDP and now it is 12 to 13%. The service sector which was 12% is today 60% and it has worked in favour of urban areas and Colombo areas. These are major factors which have contributed to the ethnic and other social problems that we face today. 



 When Hector Kobbekaduwa contested the Presidential election against J.R. Jayewardene, he secured more votes and support in the Jaffna peninsula. Now Kobbekaduwa was unknown to the people of Jaffna but yet he defeated Jayewardene in Jaffna. This was simply because of Kobbekaduwa's agriculture policy. People voted for policy. Mind you this happened barely nine months before the 1983 riots. So see the mood of the Tamils prior to the infamous Black July. The ordinary Tamil men are not chauvinistic or anti Sinhala. This is why I say a speedy economic growth in these areas can be the best thing and the Government should concentrate on the infrastructure development soon. 



Q: Notwithstanding heavy fighting in the north, the Government has again invited the LTTE for talks. Will the Tigers, in your view, accept this invitation?

 A: No. Unless they take a 180 degree, it will not happen. They are still harping on the separate state concept. At this stage the Government will also not call for unconditional talks.



 Q: How significant is the ban on the LTTE in the context of the Government's march towards eliminating terrorism? Can this block future talks?

 A: Two years ago this question of banning the LTTE came up but the cabinet did not agree to it. We wanted to give more chances, but there was no response from the LTTE. This year, we thought of banning the LTTE because it will strengthen the military. This also will prevent people from supporting directly or indirectly the LTTE. For instance people supporting the LTTE will think twice before doing so, because it is a banned organisation. It will also psychologically affect the LTTE. For instance public servants will be prevented from helping the LTTE and the ban will isolate the LTTE from the people.



