News

 The alleged contamination of Milco products with hydrogen peroxide has stirred up a war of words with the government denying the practice, and the Sri Lanka Standards Institution (SLSI) insisting that ISO certification could be withdrawn following an investigation if the charges are proven. 



 Following newspaper reports of alleged rampant hydrogen peroxide usage as a preservative in the milk products produced by Milco (Pvt) Ltd, which includes the popular 'Highland' brand, the Livestock Development Ministry adamantly stressed that the practice was annulled in 2000. 



 Meanwhile, Sri Lanka Standards Institution (SLSI) who is the local representative for ISO certification expressed concern over the allegation, and plans to conduct an investigation if the practice is proven. As the Ambewela milk factory is an ISO 22000 Food Safety Management certified factory SLSI Director General Dr. L.N. Senaweera said that the Authority annually holds an investigation, but could call for an additional inquiry provided that there is a critical failure. The penalty would be the ISO certification being withdrawn if standards are not being met. Nonetheless the process has not been initiated as yet. 



 However, Quality Assurance Manager of Milco R.A.J.N. Lakshman told The Nation that there was a possibility that hydrogen peroxide is used by farmers in rural areas, particularly in the East where hostilities have destroyed chilling facilities in milk collection centres. Nonetheless, he pointed out that it was done rarely, and was not as rampant as reports indicated. According to Lakshman the milk is brought to the Ambewala factory and milk that is tested positive for hydrogen peroxide, is blended with Ascorbic Acid to negate its effect. Milk boiled at high temperatures evaporates hydrogen peroxide. 



 "The documents that have come to light alleging the mixing of hydrogen peroxide were compiled before January 2008. For most of the past year we have maintained stringent quality control and have created awareness regarding the use of hydrogen peroxide. This practice was first introduced to developing countries across the world by the World Health Organisation to increase milk production," he said. 



 Subsequently in 1994 it was actively discouraged, and the practice was limited only to preservation in emergencies. With the turn of the millennium it was banned completely and the process of "Lactoperoxidase" was introduced in its stead. This enzyme has antimicrobial and antioxidant properties. It is fairly heat resistant and was widely used as an indicator of over pasteurisation of milk, and therefore was deemed as a more health conscious preservative. The procedure is used extensively in India but was not adopted by Sri Lanka as officials were not certain of its long term effect on health. 



 Lakshman emphasised that Sri Lanka had followed global best practices consistently and had distanced itself from hydrogen peroxide for over eight years. "Even in the Eastern region NGOs have reconstructed chilling centres, but there are a few instances when farmers out of negligence resort to the older practice," he admitted, but assured that these consignments were tested and used for animal feed. 



 With the international furor over melamine, the market share of Highland had increased and authorities assured that they would not deviate from a hydrogen peroxide free product.



