BusinessIf you thought 2008 was bad for the world economy, just wait for 2009. After a year when leading economies slid into recession, the forecasts paint an even grimmer picture for the 12 months ahead.

 The slowdown in global demand will mean more job cuts, factory closures and bankruptcies, as well as budget-stretching rescue plans and government bailouts running into the hundreds of billions of dollars (euros), economists said.



 "We see 2009 as really being a bad year, with recession for most advanced economies and growth decreasing for emerging economies," the head of the International Monetary Fund, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, said earlier this month.

 The IMF's chief economist, Olivier Blanchard, urged world governments to spend more in order to boost domestic demand "if we want to prevent this recession developing into a Great Depression" like the downturn of the 1930s.



 In the past 12 months, the OPEC oil cartel has implemented record cuts in production amid plummeting demand, stock markets have plunged and the world financial and auto sectors have been reshaped by state intervention.

 The Institute of International Finance, a Washington-based association of 375 leading world banks and financial institutions, has predicted a contraction for the world economy in 2009 for the first time since at least the 1950s.



 The IIF said the global economy will shrink 0.4 percent in 2009 after 2.0 percent growth this year, with IIF managing director Charles Dallara calling it "the most severe, globally synchronised recession in modern economic history."

 A report on Friday by the Centre for Economic and Business Research in London forecast contraction of 2.9 percent for the British economy over 2009 -- the worst full-year growth figure for Britain since the end of World War II.

 It was just the latest in a relentless round of depressing 2009 forecasts.



 The world's biggest economy, the United States, will shrink by 0.9 percent, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development said this month despite hopes that US President-elect Barack Obama will help stimulate growth.

 Obama has promised a "bold" stimulus plan of vast public works to pull the US economy out of recession after he takes office on January 20, drawing parallels to the 1930s New Deal that helped end the Great Depression.



 Germany's Ifo economic institute said Europe's largest economy will contract by 2.2 percent and the Japanese Government has forecast zero growth for 2009 as Japan's export-oriented economy takes a hard hit from the slump in demand."We need to take unprecedented measures when in an extraordinary economic situation," Japanese Prime Minister Taro Aso said this week soon after his cabinet approved a record-high budget aimed at stimulating the ailing economy.



 While all the growth forecasts remain positive for the world's leading developing economies -- Brazil, Russia, India and China -- these recently booming giants have also been hit hard by the decline in global demand.



 The Russian Government is forecasting a budget deficit for 2009 for the first time since the chaotic 1998 financial crisis and wage arrears and layoffs have prompted Russian officials to warn about the prospect of popular unrest.



 In a rare admission of trouble ahead, China's top economic planner, Zhang Ping, said this month: "We are confronted with great challenges resulting from a dramatic change in the world economic and financial situation."

 In Iceland and Ukraine, the two European countries worst hit by the economic and financial crisis, 2008 has seen street protests and bank closures.



 Both countries are predicting their economies will shrink massively in 2009 despite getting IMF loans, with Iceland forecasting a contraction of 10 percent.

 "We are protesting against the arbitrariness of the government," said Irina Kulich, 46, in a crowd in Kiev this month as protesters held placards reading: "No to the Impoverishment of the People!" and "Patience is not Unlimited!" (AFP) IMF gives tentative OK to 2.5 bn dollars rescue for Belarus The International Monetary Fund said Wednesday it had tentatively agreed to an emergency 2.5 billion dollar loan to help Belarus cope with the global financial crisis.

 IMF managing director Dominique Strauss-Kahn said an IMF staff mission and the Belarus authorities had reached agreement on an economic program to be supported under a 15-month IMF standby loan.

 "The strong measures that the authorities are taking justify the exceptional level of access to Fund resources ... and deserve the support of the international community," he said.



 The agreement is subject to approval by the IMF management and the executive board.

 The IMF said the loan agreement could go before the executive board in mid-January, and Belarus could draw on about 800 million dollars immediately after board approval.



 The United States, by far the largest voting power in the 185-nation institution, has branded Belarus "Europe's last dictatorship."

 Gordon Duguid, a US State Department spokesman, declined to comment on the IMF action but said Washington has been working to improve its relationship with Belarus for more than a year.



 "The Belarussians have a long way to go, particularly on their human rights record. However, the engagement that we've started with the Belarussians has produced some results," Duguid told reporters, citing improvement in treatment of its dissidents.

 "Their process for starting a more representative form of government needs to be much improved," he added.

 The tentative IMF loan is unusually large, representing about 420 percent of Belarus's quota, the maximum amount an IMF member country pays to finance the Washington-based institution.



 Normally an IMF member country can draw up to 100 percent annually of its quota, and 300 percent cumulatively. However, the IMF has granted exceptional access to financing to distressed countries, such as a loan to Georgia in September after its armed conflict with Russia.



 Strauss-Kahn said that Belarus's international reserves had tumbled due to falling demand from trading partners and difficulties in accessing finance as the credit squeeze sent economies into a tailspin.

 "The authorities are now taking strong actions to stop the decline in reserves, restore economic stability, and lay the groundwork for a resumption of high growth," he said.



 "The Fund-supported programme will help Belarus achieve an orderly adjustment to the external shocks that it is facing and offer protection against its most pressing vulnerabilities."

 Strauss-Kahn said the agreement with Belarus includes a strengthened monetary and exchange rate policy framework, cuts in public investment and directed lending by banks, public-sector wage restraint and an improved social safety net.

 The central bank of Belarus, a former Soviet republic with a Soviet-style economy, indicated on October 22 that the country had sought an IMF loan of two billion dollars.



 Belarussian President Alexander Lukashenko in mid-November threatened to quit the IMF if the loan request were rejected, saying such a refusal would be politically motivated.

 Lukashenko recently has outlined plans to privatize hundreds of companies and attract foreign investors. According to the World Bank, the private sector drives less than 10 percent of the economy.



 But the president also has emphasized that there will be no overnight shift from the country's economy to private ownership as happened in Russia, saying his country will follow the Chinese model instead.

 In a report published in September, the World Bank said Belarus was "a global leader in regulatory reforms" and elevated the country's ranking as a good place to do business to 85th from 115th in 2007, higher than Russia's ranking. (AFP) The two companies have attracted several significant manufacturing and content allies in the attempt to bring new smarts and interactivity to a part of the electronics world that has remained a more passive part of people's digital lives.

 Intel and Yahoo showed off Net-enabled TV prototypes in August, but the companies' technology will be presented in more finished form at the electronics show within products by Samsung, Toshiba, and a number of new partners that have signed on since the debut.



 What exactly are they trying to achieve? For Yahoo, it's establishment of the Widget Channel, a software foundation that can house programs for browsing photos, using the Internet's abundant socially connected services, watching YouTube videos, or digging deeper into TV shows -- and through which Yahoo will be able to show advertisements. 



 For Intel, it's a foothold in an industry whose microprocessors have typically been cheaper, less powerful, and less power-hungry.

 Yahoo is confident the products will catch on, in part because it's set "very low" licensing requirements, said Patrick Barry, vice president of Yahoo's Connected TV initiative.



 "We do not see it as a niche offering in a few high-end models. We see this as moving into the mainstream. In 2009 we're going to see good penetration into the product lineups of the consumer electronics companies," Barry said. "Beginning in 2010, I think, you're going to see Internet-connected consumer electronics devices dominating the lineup."

 But for both companies, TVs are terra incognita. "We emerged from the ocean of the PC," Barry said.



 An anthropologist's view 

 Despite years of effort, the idea to put media-centric PCs in the living room hasn't caught on widely. But Intel, stung by its poorly received Viiv brand, has been taking the challenge seriously.



 It even dispatched its top anthropologist--yes, the chipmaker employs anthropologists--to carefully study how people use TVs. In other words, Intel is trying to adapt to reality, not foist its ideas on an unwilling market.



 Some people like to watch TV, but anthropologist Genevieve Bell, director of user experience for Intel, likes to watch people watching TV. Specifically, Intel concluded that unlike the PC, TVs are social. People watch it together, and what they watch turns into what they talk about. Another difference from PCs: it must be simple and reliable, she said.

 When bringing the Internet to the TV, "You couldn't just turn it into a PC," she said. Alstom boss says world should not buy Chinese trains: Report Alstom Transport, the world's second-largest train-maker, is calling on nations not to buy Chinese-made trains, accusing the country of shutting foreign firms out of domestic bids, a report said Friday.

 Alstom chief executive Philippe Mellier told the Financial Times that China is also exporting trains with some foreign technology that was supplied on condition that it not be used outside China.



 "The (Chinese) market is gradually shutting down to let the Chinese companies prosper," Mellier said.

 "We don't think it's a good idea for other countries to open their markets to such a technology because there's no reciprocity any more."



 He said tenders for high-speed trains for a new link between Beijing to Shanghai included specifications that they be entirely Chinese-built and designed.



 "We're starting to see Chinese companies answering tenders around the world with Chinese freight locomotives, some of them being based on transferred technology," he said.

 As China upgrades its railway network and expands metro systems in major cities, it is consolidating its position as one of the world's main markets for rolling stock.



 China recently approved a two-trillion-yuan (290-billion-dollar) plan for investments in its railway infrastructure as part of a spending package aimed at lifting growth in the face of the global slowdown. (AFP) (AFP) - The Suez canal will not announce its tolls for 2009 until next week because of the uncertainty in the shipping industry caused by piracy and the global financial crisis, a canal authority official said on Thursday.



 The new tolls will be announced at a press conference on Monday, the state MENA news agency said.

 Any changes are normally announced in December but a canal official told AFP that this year's announcement had been delayed because of "big fluctuations in the shipping market and world commerce."

 But he predicted that they would be kept the same or even cut because of the impact on traffic of the economic slowdown and the threat of piracy in the Gulf of Aden.



 Arms manufacturers in particular have rerouted their shipping round the Cape of Good Hope in recent months to avoid the pirates preying on vessels en route between the Suez Canal and the Indian Ocean.



 Officials predicted that traffic volume would be seven percent down in December compared with the same period of last year.

 The canal is Egypt's third-largest source of revenue after tourism and remittances from expatriate workers. Satyam's loss is HCL's gain, according to global research firm Forrester. While HCL's acquisition of Axon helps it build strengths in the 

 lucrative package implementation space, Satyam's current problems weaken its position in this area, which also happens to be its biggest strength, the Forrester researchers pointed out. 



 "It helps new competition like HCL-Axon attack Satyam's sweet spot — SAP services... HCL is raising debt to strengthen its IT services business through a stronger SAP capability, and incumbent SAP services leader. Satyam is spending its mountain of cash to diversify out of the IT services business," the report said. 



 The announcement of Satyam's plan, incidentally, happened within 24 hours of the formal finalisation of HCL's purchase of Axon. 

 "The stark contrast between the two players' approaches highlights Satyam's mistake," the researchers concluded in their report. While customers expect their IT vendors to be developing state-of-the-art processes and tools, industry specific expertise, and other means that improve delivery and service capability, Satyam's move raises questions regarding its focus on IT. 



 In today's environment, this could trigger a competitive feeding frenzy, they warned, noting that peers like Tata Consultancy Services, Infosys, and Cognizant Technology Services are gearing up to take advantage of Satyam's misstep. 



 "Shared accounts will use this to take share and consolidate spending," the report added. In addition, it also makes it easier for these companies to hire an experienced pool of candidates from Satyam. Its staff is now vulnerable target to poaching from different competitors as they question how committed the management is to IT business, their particular business unit, and their overall career development, in addition to the fact that Satyam itself is now becoming a takeover target. 

 Stock market data shows many India-based players have also started accumulating Satyam shares. L&T, which has interests in IT through L&T Infotech, has reportedly been buying its shares through a group firm. So is Cognizant. 



 Already some marketplace developments indicate that Forrester's forecasts on customer churn could happen sooner than later. For instance, Citigroup, one of Satyam's major clients, has entered into outsourcing relationships involving a minimum commitment of revenues with TCS and Wipro. 



 Wipro, which was not a major vendor to Citigroup, is now banking on growing business from this client. A senior Wipro executive recently told ET that it plans to increase business from Citigroup more aggressively. "Citi's IT budget is about 8% of its revenues," he said. TCS has a $2.5 billion revenue commitment from Citigroup and Wipro has $500 million. Wipro is also now a preferred Citi vendor for application development and maintenance services.

 (The Economic Times, India) Chinese textile firms see first profit fall in 10 years: State media Profits at Chinese textile firms fell in part of 2008 for the first time in 10 years due to a drop in overseas demand amid the global financial crisis, state media reported Thursday.



 Textile companies made an overall 104.2 billion yuan (15 billion dollars) in profits in the first 11 months of last year, a fall of 1.8 percent compared to the same period in 2007, the official Xinhua news agency quoted the National Bureau of Statistics as saying.

 "This was the first decline in profits for the country's textile sector in 10 years," Wang Qianjin, chief editor of webtextiles.com, a Chinese website specialising in textiles, told Xinhua.



 China's textile industry suffered last year -- even before the financial crisis hit -- due to a strengthening of the yuan against the dollar and rising costs of labour and raw materials.

 In the first quarter of 2008, exports of textiles and clothes fell 11 percent to 81.86 billion dollars. (AFP)



