Sports

 Beset by injuries and a loss of form by key players, Australia's cricketers were swept aside in the Melbourne Test by South Africa. 

 Graeme Smith's side won by a handsome nine wickets, even though the hosts had enjoyed such a dominant position after two days that few could contemplate anything other than a home win. 



 The result gave South Africa a 2-0 lead, with the final match to come in Sydney - and there are very real fears that the Australians could suffer a previously unthinkable whitewash. 



 It is only seven weeks since India beat Ricky Ponting's team by 172 runs in Nagpur for a 2-0 series victory, and Australia's long-established dominance in Test cricket is under serious threat. 



 Australia has been the official world number one team for all but eight months of the last 13 years. But the loss of Shane Warne, Glenn McGrath, Adam Gilchrist and others in the past two years has robbed them of players rated as all-time greats. 



 Is the current slump merely a blip or a major crisis? How will Australia fight back? And should Kevin Pietersen and his England team be getting their hopes up for the Ashes? To help us answer those questions BBC Sport spoke to four Australians. 



 DEAN JONES, who won 52 Test caps as a batsman, began his career when Aussie cricket was at its previous low tidemark, in the mid-1980s; former captain IAN CHAPPELL inherited a side which was also struggling in the early 1970s but never lost a series; JIM MAXWELL is a respected cricket broadcaster and has commentated on more than 200 Tests; GREG MATTHEWS is a former Test all-rounder. 



Q: What's been happening to Australian cricket in recent times?

 IC: "It's been coming for a while, it was always going to happen when Glenn McGrath and Shane Warne left - and it's probably taken a little bit longer than some of us thought. But it's come home to roost now and you look at the two results in this series, South Africa won by six wickets in Perth and nine wickets in Melbourne, and that's Australia's problem, they're struggling like hell to get wickets." 



DJ: "We've lost Warne, McGrath and Adam Gilchrist - it takes time to replenish those stocks. In the Test match just gone, our team had 430 Test wickets to their 900. Australia's bowlers are very inexperienced, and I think it will be a whitewash by South Africa now, who have played very attractive cricket." 



JM: "Teams around the world are realising that Australia aren't quite the force they were. They are going through a period of change which will continue beyond this match, with Matthew Hayden's career nearly at an end, Brett Lee out through injury and Andrew Symonds also having a major injury. There's going to be a shift in personnel." 



GM: "It's not a crisis, we've just lost a couple of series against teams who are second and third in the ICC rankings. And we've never had great success against India in India. But I was disappointed with how we lost." 



Q: Does captain Ricky Ponting shoulder some of the responsibility?

 IC: "Ricky Ponting had a very ordinary game as a captain in this last Test. He has lost two of his last three series and it could be three from four before they pick the team for England because they're going to find it very hard to turn it around in South Africa against a very confident line-up. 



 "He'd want to improve his captaincy on the game he had in Melbourne. If he keeps having games like that, then you've got to put a real query against his captaincy. He's obviously the stand-out batsman. The problem is you might have a very aggravated player on your hands if he loses the captaincy and he's still in the side." 



DJ: "He's not used to losing. He's a smart cricketer and what's going on is not affecting his batsmanship. Normally he attacks like hell but he'll have to learn to defend a bit more. I still like his mentality in that he would prefer to try to win a Test, and is willing to throw away a Test in so doing. The potential replacement is obviously Michael Clarke. I think it's a bit too early for him, he's just starting to become a good player." 



Q: Matthew Hayden is in poor form. Should he have been dropped?

 GM: "I really respect Matty, but he's spent the entire year struggling and that makes me think he's been a little bit fortunate. It might have been time for a change for the third Test." 

 DJ: "[Chairman of selectors] Andrew Hilditch has said he's in our plans all through 2009, but because the team is playing so badly it really exaggerates his problems. It's not as if he's getting out to nicks, it's caught at mid-wicket doing silly stuff. Hayden is 11th in the list of all-time Test batsmen so the selectors have to treat him with a fair amount of respect, but he is worrying them." 



 IC: "If you take your mind back to 2005, Matthew Hayden was trying to bully the bowlers early in the Ashes series and was having no success at all doing that. He's still trying to now, but he's aged a bit, he's not in the best of form and I think he's got to rein it in a bit. 



 "I'm surprised in a dead rubber that they haven't tried the young Phil Hughes - it would have been a good time to have had a look at him and let Hayden go back to domestic cricket, make a few runs and rebuild his confidence that way. Australia badly needs him for the Ashes in 2009, but they need him in good form." 



 Q : Do other changes need to be made, and if so who should be dropped, who comes in?

 JM: "Phil Jaques, who's out injured, made a hundred in his last Test so you have to think he'll be coming back into the side at some point. They've still got [currently injured seamer] Stuart Clark but they do have a big issue about the spin bowling. They don't know which way to go, and there aren't too many alternatives. They've tried Jason Krejza, they've got Nathan Hauritz, they'll probably go back to Krejza." 



GM: "I have been disappointed with some decisions, like taking Cameron White to India as a specialist bowler, then Krejza was dropped after his second Test in Perth having taken 12 wickets in his first in India, the fourth-best debut in history. That's hard to work out. 



 "I see an enormous amount of talent for the selectors to pick from. Mitchell Cook at Sydney University, who bowls off-spin and bats, is about as good as I've seen. And if we're talking about players slipping up to Test match level, Western Australian off-spinner/batsman Marcus North rips it and gets a lot more runs than me. Dougie Bollinger is as good a fast bowler New South Wales have had since Mike Whitney and Geoff Lawson. Victoria's Dirk Nannes is an animal, he's ugly, you wouldn't want to face him. So there are a lot of options and I'm really confident. 



 "We've also got New South Wales opener Phillip Hughes and Victoria opener Chris Rogers who could both slip in, as well as [Western Australia fast bowler] Steve Magoffin and [Queensland fast bowler] Ashley Noffke. [Tasmania fast bowler] Ben Hilfenhaus can also bowl fast for Australia, and I think [paceman] Mark Cameron of New South Wales will play for Australia this year." 



 IC: "It's a good time for Brett Lee to take a break. He's got an injury which needs fixing anyhow; he's had the marriage breakdown which obviously caused him a lot of mental grief, he wasn't really ready physically for the India tour. 



 "They're saying he needs to rebuild his strength, I think this is the perfect time for him to go away and do all those things and clear his head. But they've got to stop urging him to try and bowl faster. The extra pace he once had has gone - he's at that age where you lose a little bit of pace. He's got to adapt to being a bowler who does things at a slightly reduced pace." – [BBC] Calendar years 2006-2007: Australia played 14 Tests and won all 14 (100% success rate)

 Calendar year 2008: Australia played 13 Tests, won five, drawn four, lost four (38% success)  Smith dreamt of leading Proteas since he was 12 SYDNEY: Graeme Smith became South Africa's skipper at the age of 22, fulfilling his dream that he saw since he was 12. 

 Smith was never the studious except when it came to one task. At the start of each year, he would lock himself away for a few hours, put pen to paper and devise a list of objectives that would be pinned to his bedroom wall. 



 "From the age of 12, cricket was going to be his life," the Sydney Morning Herald quoted his father Graham, as saying. 

 "His goals were very important to him, and it showed to us just how determined he was. They changed from time to time, but one thing that was always there was that he wanted to captain the South African cricket team," he said. 



 By then, Graham Smith knew full well that his son's ambition would lead him away from the family's engineering business. 

 "It was a nightmare. You could never get him out. We used to have garden matches with all our friends around, but Graeme would just bat all day. I think even at that age he was thriving on all of our frustration," Graham said. 

 Tales of Smith's resolve are the stuff of legend in his native Johannesburg. In his early teens, Smith once attended a provincial spin academy and asked the coach whether he could oppose the bowlers in the nets. 



 "He was in those nets for two whole days. He could have gone forever," a friend recalled. 

 Jimmy Cook, a former Test batsman who would become Smith's coach and mentor at the King Edward VII School in Johannesburg, recalled his first meeting with the man who would go on to captain his nation. 



 "He was bowling in the nets when another boy came up to him to chat. Graeme looked at him and said quite sternly, 'Leave me alone, I'm bowling'. He was that focused that he would not let anything distract him," Cook said. 

 "He tore strips off the team at his first training camp as captain in Pretoria because some of the bowlers went off for a drink while the batsmen were doing shuttles," Cook said. 



 "He made it known to them that they would do everything as a team from here on in ... He came across as arrogant ... [but] I think that he never would have survived in that team as a 22-year-old captain without putting his foot down," Cook added. [ANI]

Over the years at the BBC Sport website we have had a go at predicting players on the cusp of making an impact on the international cricket scene.



 The tradition is to go for one player from each of the two teams touring England in the summer, three up-and-coming players on the county scene attempting to break into the national senior side, and a member from the England women's team.



 No player can be selected if they have already appeared on our "six to follow".



 We have had some success over the years, with the likes of Virender Sehwag, Kevin Pietersen, Graeme Smith, James Anderson and - last year - Dale Steyn all confidently tipped for the top. Inevitably, there have also been one or two players who have not quite lived up to expectation.



 Have a look at our selections from 12 months ago if you like - you can also link from there to many of the previous picks - and most importantly have a go yourself.



 I'll be back on the blog later to compile a "popular choice" selection if there are enough replies! 

 For Australia to retain the Ashes, someone will need to step into the shoes of the retired Glenn McGrath and that man could be Johnson.

 Not afraid to seek a full length in an effort to get the ball to swing - and with that happy knack of taking wickets with so-so deliveries - he bowls at a lively pace and is learning fast on the international stage.

 After a slightly disappointing first year in Test cricket, he was one of the few bright spots on the tough tour of India. Having survived that examination, he picked up easier wickets against New Zealand in the home series and took 11 more in a single Test against South Africa in Perth. 

 The West Indies selectors seem, for the time being, determined to keep giving Marshall chances since many are convinced this man has so much raw talent that one day he must succeed.

 He has a truly dreadful record in one-day cricket - in 19 completed innings he has suffered 13 dismissals while still in single figures. And while he managed to smash an unbeaten 157 against Canada, his next best score is 35.

 And yet, far from banish him to regional cricket, the selectors put him back in the Test side in June, and an innings of 85 in the fourth innings in Barbados showed him at his best. There is something there - he must now channel emotions which can get the better of him and he could yet emerge as a talent on the world stage.

 His ability to strike the ball cleanly may make him one to watch at the ICC World Twenty20 in June - especially as he would have had the chance to get used to English conditions by then. 

 The conveyor belt of fast bowlers from the north-east appeared to have left Davies behind when others like Steve Harmison, Liam Plunkett and Graham Onions gained England recognition, while he did not.

 Davies's handicap was his fitness. He took 97 wickets between 2004 and 2005, and yet was injured for periods of both of those summers before spending three months in a body brace in 2006.

 He began to recover in 2007 and took 39 wickets in 11 matches in the Championship-winning squad last summer. That haul included a stunning spell on a flat deck at Old Trafford, when he had Andrew Flintoff caught at slip first ball after seeing off Mark Chilton, Mohammad Yousuf and Mal Loye.

 Davies's career bowling average of 21.17 is very good indeed and he could be approaching his best years now. 

 Hailing from the Caribbean, Joseph was cleared to play for Kent in 2004 after arriving in the UK as a schoolboy aged 15. But he found himself very much a fringe figure at Canterbury for a number of seasons.

 That all changed in 2008, however, when he emerged as one of the best English-qualified one-day bowlers in the country with some dazzling spells in pressure situations, and some handy returns in the Championship too.

 He removed Ravi Bopara and Alastair Cook in consecutive deliveries in the Friends Provident Trophy final, where he demonstrated his natural ability to run the ball away from the right-handers.Those in the know say he has also added a few crucial yards of pace, and the ECB have taken note by including him in their most recent performance squad. 

 Durham University has already provided four top-order batsmen who went on to play for their country in Nasser Hussain, Andrew Strauss, Graeme Fowler and John Stephenson. Will Smith, who will captain the county champions this summer, could be the next.

 Always a name to look out for in scorecards featuring the university sides between 2002 and 2005, sheer weight of runs forced his inclusion in Nottinghamshire's Twenty20 side in the fourth of those summers.

 Quite how Notts let him go at the end of 2006 - they essentially swapped him for the Essex giant Will Jefferson - is a bit of a mystery. And in his second season at Durham he racked up 952 Championship runs from 12 matches to be the club's player of the year - no mean feat in that particular side.



 

 Having tipped the likes of Isa Guha and Sarah Taylor long before they made a major impact, women's cricket is an area we have some confidence in. Marsh is an interesting performer who has switched from seaming the ball to spinning it under the tutelage of Jack Birkenshaw.

 I must admit I was tempted to go for Lydia Greenway, the batsman who has been in the team for a while, but in this area I defer to my colleague Paul Grunill, who knows much more about women's cricket than me.

 So good luck to Marsh and the rest of the England team as they travel to the World Cup in Australia in March and then defend the Ashes in the summer (following the World Twenty20, also in England). It will be a very busy year for them but after a great summer in 2008 they have a decent chance of success in both tournaments. [BBC]



