SportsSelf belief is the key — Mahela "One thing that Test cricket has taught me is to work hard at practice and make sure my preparation, concentration and focus is good getting to my zone." 

 Playing a century of Test matches for your country does not always happen. To appear in 100 Test matches was considered a rare achievement prior to 1981 because upto that point only two cricketers, England's Colin Cowdrey and Geoffrey Boycott had played in a century of Tests.



 The number of cricketers who have made over a hundred Test appearances multiplied over the years after the number of Test-playing nations was increased from six (since South Africa's isolation from Test cricket from 1970-71 till 1991-92) to ten with Sri Lanka, Zimbabwe and Bangladesh becoming full members within a period of nine years (1981-2000) and South Africa's readmittance to the Test fold in 1991.



 Captain Mahela Jayawardene became the 48th player in the world and the fourth Sri Lankan to appear in 100 Test matches when he took the field in the second Test against Bangladesh at Chittagong yesterday. Of the three Sri Lankans who have achieved this feat before Jayawardene, two of them Muthiah Muralitharan and Chaminda Vaas are still playing for their country while Sanath Jayasuriya, the first Sri Lankan to play in 100 Tests retired last year.



 Jayawardene made his Test debut in the record breaking Test in 1997 against India at the R Premadasa Stadium. When he went out to bat the scoreboard read 790-4 and his maiden contribution of 66 went a long way towards helping his country achieve the highest total in Test history – 952-6 declared. He has not looked back since but continued from strength to strength despite several disappointments and pitfalls. 



 Jayawardene's career reached new heights when he was named captain for the tour of England in 2006 when Marvan Atapattu was forced out with an injury. He led his team to a 1-1 draw in the Test series and an emphatic 5-0 whitewash in the ODI series. He followed this up with a Sri Lankan record of 374 against South Africa at the SSC adding a world record 624 runs for the third wicket with Kumar Sangakkara. 



 Jayawardene is considered the best batsman Sri Lanka has produced since Sanath Jayasuriya and compared as the next Aravinda de Silva, arguably the best batsman produced by the country. So far Jayawardene has lived upto that expectation although much more is desired from the outstanding talent he possess. 

 The Nation caught up with Jayawardene for an exclusive interview via telelink from Chittagong, venue of the on-going second Test against Bangladesh. 



 Q: How does it feel to play in your 100th Test match for your country? 

 MJ: You don't target that you would be playing in 100 Test matches but it is something special. Not many Sri Lankans have achieved it and not many cricketers in the world have done it either. I am really proud to have played for my country but at the same time it is just another Test match. I want to make sure that we do well and get another win for Sri Lanka.



 Q: What has Test cricket taught you? 

 MJ: It is tough but with the talent you have it is much more a mental thing, how you prepare yourself and how you adapt to certain situations. How to go through your ups and downs, good times bad times and treat them equally by making sure you work really hard. One thing that Test cricket has taught me is to work hard at practice and make sure my preparation, concentration and focus is good getting to my zone. I've learnt so many things in that time it is amazing. Still I am learning to do things in a different way.



 Q: Your highs and lows in Test cricket?

 MJ: The high point would be playing my first Test match for my country. You cannot take that away from you. I had so many other good achievements but playing my first Test was a 'dream come true' for me. I have gone through a couple of bad periods where I haven't been consistent getting out in the 30s and 40s. I knew what was required of me was much more than that. I felt disappointed. Whenever you are not getting runs you feel that you haven't contributed to the team. Those would be the low points.



 Q: When you began your career did you think you'll come this far? 

 MJ: Honestly not. You never know whether there will be a tomorrow for you. It all goes how you perform. I have been blessed with very few injuries in my career. I never thought that I would come this far but at the same time I am very pleased because not many people get this opportunity and that I am one of the privileged few.



 Q: To what do you attribute your success in cricket?

 MJ: A lot of people have helped me during my career, coaches, team-mates, family, friends everybody. But for me believing who I am and not changing from it is the most important thing. The way I went about things and never changed. I wasn't going to be confused trying to be somebody else. Even through my failures I still played the way I wanted to play and came out of it. Now I understand that if I go in for another bad trot how I can get out of it. That comes by not changing from who I was and keeping it right.



 Q: What personal goals have you set yourself from here onwards?

 MJ: I don't look that far ahead. For me it's all about keeping the distance at the moment. If I keep doing what I am doing right now I should be able to go on for a little longer. I don't have big goals but I think about the next couple of tours. When you focus on that whatever you need to achieve will come your way you will be happy. Then you move on again. If you set targets and goals far ahead you probably forget about what you need to do to get there. I rather concentrate on the processes right now and once I get there I probably be happy. This 100th Test match I never thought about it. Now that it has come I am pretty.



 Q: Not many, only six batsmen have scored a hundred in their 100th Test. What chances of you joining that select band?

 MJ: It all depends on how focussed I am. But I will give it my best shot. Getting a hundred doesn't mean it becomes easy. Every innings you need to do the hard work. Just because you have the experience or the numbers behind you doesn't mean its going to happen in the middle just like that. Coming from Zimbabwe I knew that I had to spend more time in the middle so I made a conscious effort to just keep on batting. Once you do that you get into your zone, and groove and continue the way you know best with big runs. I am quite happy with the hundred (166 in first Test at Dhaka) and it came in a winning match. That's the most important thing.



