News

 The Sri Lanka Bureau of Foreign Employment (SLBFE) is to introduce a new grading system for all foreign employment agencies from this year.

 "The main objective of introducing such a system is to give due recognition to the agencies, which are performing well, to encourage their businesses by way of rewarding and appreciating them and to have an unbiased system of introducing the agencies to foreign job aspirants and to foreign principals," said SLBFE Chairman Kingsley Ranawaka. 



 According to him, there are 11 sequences in the criteria of grading, which includes recruitment, dispute settlement, recruitments to new destinations, ratio between job orders and departures, payment of Cess, renewal of licence, evaluation of human resources of licensed agents, legal cases, complaints, having paper advertisement no first approvals and having first approvals no recruitments.



 "The proposed grades for all agencies are from 'A' to 'E'," he added.

 Ranawaka further stated that the agencies that are convicted for the offences of submitting false documents, that engaged in underage recruitment, has more than 10 pending legal cases, has got 100% of complaints rate and has not been recruited single worker during the relevant period would be disqualified for the grading scheme.



 "Preference will be given to 'A' grade agencies in overseas promotional campaigns, special identity card will be issued to 'A' grade agencies and many other benefits will be given with the assistance of the Ministry of Foreign Employment Promotion and Welfare and through the government," said Ranawaka.

 He further stated that last year's expenditure for monitoring and controlling the overseas Workers' Welfare Fund (WWF) was Rs. 212 million. 



 He also said that total number of foreign employment agencies that was suspended and blacklisted during last year mounted to 103.

 Ranawaka emphasised that they are hoping to take emigrants' children on a foreign educational tour, who are sitting for the Grade Five scholarship examinations this year and passing with highest marks from each district.



 "We have kept Rs. 35 million for this project," said Ranawaka.

 According to Ranawaka, they are reserving a sum of Rs. 8 million for housing assistance including, loans which they are giving for emigrants, and they are going to have a separate law council for the employees who die abroad and the proper dispersal of money which they have earned.



