NewsWho done it? 

 A UNP Kotte Municipal Council member has been arrested on suspicion by the Police in connection with the recent attack on MTV/ MBC network at Depanama, Pannipitiya, inflicting heavy damages to the buildings and equipment there, running into hundreds of millions of rupees, and threatening its staff. 

 The Municipal Councillor was produced before Gangodawila Magistrate Wasantha Jinadasa, on Friday and remanded till tomorrow.



 The arrest had been made on a tip off received by the Police Emergency line 119. Police Spokesman SSP Ranjith Gunasekara told The Nation, two special Police teams were deployed to carry out investigations along with Maharagama Police into the incident.



 Meanwhile, President Rajapaksa on Friday pointed to a conspiracy behind the recent attack on MTV, and vowed to reveal all soon. The government also vehemently condemned the attack on Sirasa.

 However, accusations were made by several groups that somebody badly wanted to silence Sirasa TV for a long time.

 Two days prior to the massive attack on Tuesday's pre-dawn attack, another small attack was carried out by some group the previous Friday night.



 There were no damages caused to the station as a result of the first attack, but three glass bottles filled with an inflammable liquid and pieces of cloth had been thrown at the guard room by some unidentified persons, according to the Police Spokesman.

 Police sources said, no suspects have been arrested on the previous incident and no security has been called by the MTV/MBC authorities from the Police following the previous incident.



 Allegedly a fully armed gang of around 15 persons that have arrived at the complex in three vehicles, of which one was a white van, carried out the destructive second attack



 Apparently the internal video cameras that were fixed inside the complex had not been in operation at the time of attack, even though they were previously attacked on January 6. 



 Meanwhile, denying allegations that the UNP is behind setting fire to MTV/MBC station, Attorney-at-Law Nissanka Nanayakkara said that the government is attempting to put the blame on the UNP and wash their hands off.

 Speaking at a media briefing yesterday, Nanayakkara said that the plan of the government is to somehow create an unwanted issue by getting UNP Parliamentarian Ravi Karunanayaka involved.



 "We can prove that there is no evidence to prove the involvement of Parliamentarian Ravi Karunanayaka or the Opposition Leader of the Kotte Municipal Council," he added.

 Meanwhile, Attorney-at-Law Upul Jayasuriya said that the government is taking all possible steps to blame the UNP, without punishing the criminals who have done it.









