News

 As the first step in a series of measures to pre-empt election violations, monitoring teams will begin coordination at district level with Police tomorrow. 



 People's Action For Free and Fair Elections (PAFFREL) Chairman Kingsley Rodrigo told The Nation that they would deploy over 3,000 monitors with the bulk as stationary monitors a day before the election. The remaining 600 will act as mobile monitors. However, with Senior DIG Gamini Navaratne, who is in-charge of elections, reportedly revealing that politicians have deployed armed gangs in the Central and North Western Provincial regions, the onus is on the monitors to ensure that violations are reported consistently. 



 Meanwhile, Campaign for Free and Fair Elections (CaFFE) are also gearing up with an estimated 300 to 500 monitors expected to be deployed in each district. Officials are still having discussions with civil society members to place this framework at grassroots level. They will also train district leaders to coordinate with the Police on election violations, according to CaFFE Convenor Nimalka Fernando.



 Following a meeting between the political parties and the Elections Commissioner on Friday (9) PAFFREL has also decided to deploy multi party election monitors at their centres. A representative of each political party will be made a member of these teams, and the organisation will also train polling officials in accordance with the decisions made at the meeting. 



 "Only the UNP have asked for election violence monitoring so far. At the moment we have only received four complaints, but we are prepared to extend as much support as possible to ensure that the democratic process is safeguarded. Training of polling booth officials will be done in the North Western Province on the 17 and 18 of this month, and we have requested Police transfers to be halted during this time," he said. 



 However, Senior DIG Gamini Navaratne is reportedly planning to deploy special Police teams within the next few days to arrest the alleged gangs that have infiltrated the election regions. It was previously reported that these groups were working for both government and opposition politicians, and that they were from Borella, Mutuwal and Maligawatta areas. They are reported to be armed and already working with politicians in the guise of supporters. 



 "Their plan is to instigate violence against the other party, while pretending to be supporters of their respective employers. The Police will conduct impartial investigations into gangs irrespective of party affiliations," Senior DIG Navaratne has assured in media reports.



