News FeaturesContrary to speculations that the people living in the conflict areas have been inadequately fed by the government, reports released by various organisations, including the respective Government Agents (GA) strongly indicate there has been a steady flow of essential food items to these areas.



 However, there are still doubts with regard to the proper distribution of food items inside the Tiger controlled areas, which according to many aid workers, has been a difficult task.



 Notwithstanding the many obstacles, the government agencies, including the Disaster Management Ministry and other relevant ministries have managed to send food to the doorstep of the Tamils who today are internally displaced due to the ongoing war.



 Three main agencies have successfully supplied essential food items to the uncleared areas. They are the Commissioner General of Essential Services, the Ministry of Resettlement and Disaster Relief Services and the Ministry of Nation Building, which works with the World Food Programme of the UN to supply food and other relief items. The Commissioner General of Essential Services ensured the supply of food for the general populace. 



 During 2008, his office has sent in 1,551 truckloads of supplies into the Kilinochchi District. This includes over 13,000 MT of food and over 1,700 MT of non-food items. Mullaitivu District has received 1,463 truckloads, which consisted of nearly 13,700 MT of food and 2,951 MT of non-food items. 



 The Ministry of Resettlement and Disaster Relief Services has provided cooked food as immediate relief for displaced persons and has spent Rs.13 million for this service in the Northern Province in 2008. The Ministry has also supplied the so-called 'old IDPs' with food items. These are persons displaced before 2006. 



 From a total of nearly 12,000 MT supplied to the north in 2008, 3,700 MT had been sent to Kilinochchi and nearly 4,300 MT of food was supplied to IDPs in the Mullaitivu District. In addition to the above, the Ministry of Nation Building and World Food Programme (WFP) have sent in nine convoys in last three months to the uncleared areas. 



 They have also assisted in the purchase of locally produced rice in the uncleared areas. In the October to December period some 395 truckloads have been sent into Kilinochchi and Mullaitivu for distribution amongst the IDPs. This has included 5,800 MT of food. Nearly 780 MT have been purchased locally, making a total of over 6,500 MT food supplied. These convoys also carried non-food items. 



 Medical supplies have also been sent into these areas. The Ministry of Health has spent over Rs. 115 million on medical supplies to Kilinochchi and Mullaitivu Districts in 2008 out of a total of Rs. 466 million for the entire north. 

 In addition to the foregoing, the ICRC has also supplied food and other relief with Indian assistance. Shelter has been a concern in the context of the recent rains. The Ministry of Disaster Management has sent in 93,000 cadjans for the usage of IDPs. (WG)



