BusinessAnalysts fear this could trigger off a negative drift, Sri Lanka can ill afford to have, given the present economic scenario... 

 The recent de-listings that have been proposed by several medium sized listed entities are likely to have negative implications to the already troubled Colombo bourse, analysts point out.

 These possible de-listing processes would affect the market capitalisation negatively and might create a trend which several other listed companies may follow in the near future, they fear.



 During the last few weeks, Associated Motorways PLC (AMW), Commercial Leasing PLC (COML) and Associated Electrical PLC (AEC) have offered to de-list their companies from the official list of the Colombo Stock Exchange. 

 "Though these companies altogether account for just 3.12 percent of the market capitalisation, as far as the formation of the market cap of the bourse is concerned, this is a significant amount" Lanka Securities, Research Head, Srimal Liyanage told The Nation Economist.



 As per January 9, AMW had a market cap of 1.93 percent and COML and AEC had 0.28 percent and 0.96 percent respectively.

 As Liyanage pointed out more than 30 percent of the market cap of the bourse is with four companies, namely Sri Lanka Telecom, Dialog Telecom, John Keells Holdings and Distilleries Company of Sri Lanka, and the balance 70 percent is accounted by the remaining 232 companies.



 "So when you take things in that perspective, even 3.2 percent is significant. Earlier the 4 companies mentioned used to dominate the market cap as they accounted for nearly 50 percent of the market cap. But now this trend is reversing and small and medium sized companies have started gaining market cap largely due to lagging performance of the three of the large four " he pointed out.

 He also said de-listing was not something a small market like Sri Lanka can afford and could aggravate the lagging investor sentiments further, due to the current global financial gloom.



 Liyanage also fears this would trigger off a negative drift, encouraging several other listed entities to de-list.

 "At present there is hardly any movement in the bourse, and due to the hardships the businesses are experiencing, they try to employ all the possible cost cutting methods. Though being a listed entity doesn't mean a costly affair, certainly there are some charges involved. In addition, the company has to conduct its operations adhering to the rules and regulations of the CSE and the SEC. Since the incentives for being de-listed overwhelms the merits of being listed in the present state of the affairs, there is a tendency for several other companies to follow the example of those three companies" he said.



 Sharing his views over the matter, Research Analysts of Asha Phillip Securities, Charuka Waththegama said that in a developing economy, instead of de-listing existing companies, people expect more and more companies to come forward and list with the stock exchange.



 As he pointed out, some evaluate market performance by looking at the market capitalisation. For market capitalisation to remain healthy, more and more companies should list. But for the whole of last year, we've been able to witness the listing of only 3 companies, namely Janashakthi Insurance, Renuka Holdings and Capital Reach Leasing.

 He also pointed out that AEC, one of the companies that have opted to de-list, is probably the top performer in the market for 2008. Says the bank is stable and can tackle the current issues without much difficulty Even though some Rs.700 million worth of deposits have been withdrawn from the distressed Seylan Bank PLC during the last two weeks, the Bank's new director board showed confidence over meeting the Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital requirements, with the success of its debenture issue which closed on December 23, 2008.



 "The run on deposits have stopped, and we are confident that with the successful conclusion of the debenture issue we'll be able to meet the capital adequacy requirement of 10 percent" Seylan's CEO/MD Ajita Pasqual said.

 In the latter part of 2008 Seylan Bank issued five year debentures to raise Rs.400 million with the option for the Bank's Board to go in for three more trenches of Rs.200 million each.



 According to Seylan's new Chairman, Eastman Narangoda, the initial issue of Rs.400 million has been oversubscribed, and the first Rs.200 million trenche is also fully subscribed.

 Seylan Bank's capital adequacy ratio had slipped below 10 percent to 9.98 percent in the September quarter of last year.



 New strategy

 Seylan new Chairman Narangoda also said the new director board will introduce a new strategic plan to overcome the current difficulties the Bank is undergoing due to its indirect exposure to the crumbled Golden Key credit card company.

 "The new director board will be mainly looking into the credit quality, expenses and off balance sheet items. We also plan to do an organisational transformation to introduce the employees to the new environment" he said.



 However, due to sensitivity of the information, he refused to disclose details on the off balance sheet items.



 Coping with NPLs

 Though the Bank's present non performing loan ratio is around 12 percent, somewhat high for a private sector bank, the Bank's CEO Ajita Pasqual said that with the new board of directors, he was working towards bringing down the NPL ratio.

 According to the 07/08 annual report of Seylan Bank, the chapter on loans shows 30 percent of the loans the Bank has given as specified and the balance 70 percent unspecified. 



 A possible buy out

 When the new Chairman was asked about a possible buy out of the bank in the future by already speculated interest parties, he said they will go by the instructions of the Central Bank over such a matter. (IS) Acuity Partners to kick off with new board Acuity partners (Pvt) Ltd., the long awaited joint venture between DFCC and HNB, is poised for operational take off as a full service investment bank in the latter part of January, DFCC said in a stock exchange filing.

 CEO of DFCC's stock brokering arm, Ray Abeywardene, has been appointed as the Chief Executive of Acuity Partners, while Deva Ellepola has been appointed the head of stock brokering operations of the company.



 Acuity Partners is the group holding company for the subsidiaries of the two banks involved in the equity and debt capital markets i.e. DFCC Stockbrokers (Pvt) Ltd., HNB Stockbrokers (Pvt) Ltd. and the primary dealership business - HNB Securities (Pvt) Ltd.



 Concurrent with these new appointments, Jayantha Perera will step down as the MD of Acuity Partners to assume a role of non-executive director of Acuity board and will revert to his substantive role as a Senior Deputy GM at HNB.

 Likewise G.Ramanan will assume a role of non-executive director and he too will revert his substantive role as a Asst. GM at HNB, the filing says.



 The corporate finance teams of HNB and DFCC will also be assigned to Acuity Partners under non-executive director Tyrone De Silva, who currently serves as a Senior Vice President of DFCC

 The new venture also plans to move into a new location Dharmapala Mawatha, Colombo 7 by the end of January.

 Ray Abeywardena, Deva Ellepola and Amal Fernando will serve the Acuity Partners in the capacity of Executive Directors and DFCC chief, Nihal Fonseka will serve as the Chairman.



 Earlier it was made public that Acuity Partners will have an initial capital of about Rs. 500 million, and was expected to provide the broad service range of a fully integrated investment banking operations. This includes corporate finance and advisory, equities, fixed income, loan syndications and structured finance, derivatives and treasury products and capital markets. (IS) Desiccated Coconut Millers Association President Felix Fernandopulle speaking The Nation Economist said that the Desiccated Coconut (DC) industry was awaiting positive action from the Government, as it was on the brink of collapse, due to the recently imposed import duty on edible oil. 



 "We are in a crisis right now. Duties on edible oil were jacked up to Rs. 40 a kilo from earlier 15% levy, which is equivalent of increasing duty by 300 per cent. Duty of 15 per cent comes to around Rs. 10 per kilo. When duty goes up, VAT and other surcharges also go up. So the landed price of edible oil here is about 230 per cent of world market prices. As oil and desiccated coconut prices are interconnected, generally DC price is about US $ 400 to 600 more than edible oil," he said. 



 "Due to jacking up of duty, the present coconut oil price is around US $ 1,400 a ton in Sri Lanka, whereas anywhere else in the world, you can buy it for around US$ 600. Because of that DC is around US $1,100 a ton. We were able to continue up to now since we had some stocks but that too is almost exhausted. Unless a solution is found soon, the desiccated coconut industry and coconut industry as a whole, will not be able to survive too long." Fernandopulle said. 

 "However this will not be a revenue source for Government because with high tariffs, a larger number of nuts will go into edible oil production and not for export.



 But where the government earned Rs 1,400 million as taxes from oil imports and tax income from Rs 7bn of DC exports in 2007, revenue state will drop in 2009. Although Government hopes to earn Rs 4 bn from oil imports this year, it will halve to about Rs 2 bn because of the high levy," he predicted. 



 Crisis

 "With the world economic crisis and all commodity prices coming down, invariably coconut prices also must come down. We feel the best solution is to go back to pre-budget levy. Things will become very critical after February once the DC stocks are exhausted," he said.



 Commenting further he said, "Between 2008 January to October we had an average price of Rs 22. However in December it dropped to Rs. 15 and 16. So there has not been any overall loss for growers in 2008. But some interested parties had made representations to the Government that cost of production was between Rs 18 and 20." 



 "With this duty, our products have become highly uncompetitive in the world market. Despite recession we must continue to service our buyers. Once we lose our foreign market, it will go to our competitors like Indonesia. It will then be very difficult to recapture the market. Even if we do regain it, we will have to sell at a lower rate." 



 He also noted that, "We can import edible oil at a lower cost of US$ 550 a ton while exporting DC and other kernel products, at a much higher rate of over US$ 1,100, bringing more income into the country. 

 "The Government has focussed only on the growers, and on keeping prices up. President has requested the Treasury to meet the Desiccated Coconut Millers Association next week and find a way out." (SF) 2009 forecast blurred; Industry yet to see government incentives 

 Sri Lanka's largest foreign exchange earner- the garment industry, has forecast a dim short term prospect with upto 15 percent sales decline. 

 Speaking to The Nation Economist, former Chairman of Joint Apparels Association Forum (JAAF), Ajith Dias said that they were positive about Government's stimulus package, and awaiting its implementation. 



 "Things have not changed, and we expect a downturn for 2009. We estimate a slump of export sales between 10 and 15 per cent. To figure out a clear direction it will take another few months. We can't anticipate any improvement at the moment, but fervently hope that it won't get worse. It is very difficult to say at this stage. We have secured orders for the first quarter, but store closures are taking place. Certainly there are lots of people contemplating closure in all countries. Our target is to sustain the same market level as 2008 but it's not going to be easy." 



 Dias said that they will be able to plan out future business once the relief package details are finalised. "Government has also promised certain incentives, but it is only when they come in, that we will be able to see how to increase business. However details of how you qualify for the 5 per cent production subsidy and about the interest rate cut have not yet been finalised. They say it will come out in the next few weeks and we are waiting for that. But removal of 15 per cent electricity surcharge and suspension of Economic Service Charge (ESC) will have a very positive impact. They were supposed to have been implemented from January 1, 2009." 



 Lay-offs

 Commenting on layoffs and closure of stores of world retail giant- Marks and Spencer (M&S), Dias said that as it had happened only last Wednesday, the exact outcome cannot be known as at now. 

 "Sri Lanka is major supplier to M&S, and if they close stores they will be buying less products overall, which would adversely impact a lot of supplier countries including us." 

 "As far as the garment industry is concerned there's no clear direction as to where we are going for the next quarter. We are literally doing business on a day-to-day basis.



 We are unable to forecast anything as things change by the day, because of the uncertain situation all over the world. This has impacted Sri Lanka's exports drastically and we hope it won't be more than 10 to 15 per cent," he added. 

 Commenting on the halt of Central Bank intervention, Dias said that at this juncture depreciation of the Rupee was crucial. 



 "I have heard that the exchange rate has gone up to around Rs 114 to a dollar, and we hope that it will go further up which is necessary for our industry. But even if they stop interfering and the price doesn't seem to go up, it will have a negative effect. For some reason or the other there doesn't seem to be a demand for dollars, so the rate is still hovering around Rs. 114 a dollar. If the Rupee depreciates more, then our prices will be much more competitive, and we will get a lot more business. At the end of the day the question is: how ready are the world retailers to buy our garments?" he concluded. With the jolt created by the advertising campaign and the customer registration process by Bharti Airtel during the last week, two major mobile operators in the country are expected to cut their tariffs further to retain and continue their market shares and dominance from the looming threat from Indian Bharti Airtel.

 Though Bharti Airtel has not yet disclosed the details of any post -paid or pre-paid packages they would offer as the commercial launch is scheduled on Monday, people were seen in long queues near every Bharti Airtel offices in the Western Province and several other major cities in the country.  Bogala to raise loan from its parent company Bogala Graphite Lanka PLC is seeking a loan up to one million Euros from its parent company, Graphit Kropfmuhl AG of Germany to reduce overheads and keep the company afloat amidst slumping graphite prices, the company said in a stock exchange filing, last week.

 The loan which the company says will be taken at a very reasonable rate, would be utilised to implement a voluntary retirement scheme, which is estimated to be around Rs.94 million.

 The falling graphite prices have hurt the company's September quarter balance sheet substantially. 

 Bogala Graphite expects to call a special meeting on the same day its AGM is scheduled to be held (March 7, 2009) to clarify the nature and the extent of the losses incurred by the company as at December 30, 2008 and the causes for them. South Asian Gateway Terminals (SAGT) recorded its lowest monthly volume in December 2008 since November, last year as volumes fell by 9.3 percent to YoY to 123,038 TEUs.

 As analysts pointed out, this is the first monthly YoY decline since December 2005. However total volumes for 2008 were up by 11.6 percent Year on Year to 1,726,424 TEUs and it was transshipments that accounted for 76 percent of it.

 However in 2007 volumes were up by 15.8 percent to 1,546,497 TEUs.

 By examining the volumes, analysts are of the view that SAGT may be reaching capacity limitations. (IS)



