FeaturesI wanted to talk to normal people, men and women that you would meet on the streets, eat food that they eat and get a true insight into how people live in a particular area. In my view it's the people who make places different from each other and travel programmes should pay more attention to that aspect - Ian Wright 

 Ian Wright, the famous travel presenter, is sitting in front of me talking to four scruffy, wiry looking young guys, the famous Jumpers of Galle and pondering whether to take the jump himself. The jump is 50 metres deep and rocks are abundant, a stunt better left professionals. As Jumpers and his production team weigh the pros and cons (mainly,) whether he should take the jump or not, he comes over and talks to me.



 First time in Sri Lanka 

 Although he has travelled all around the world as a presenter during the last 15 odd years, this is Ian's first visit to the paradise isle. During the visit, Ian with the 'Roast Beef,' his production company, team will cover all parts of the island, "it's my first time in Sri Lanka and I have planned to do all sorts of things. My team was here before me and they scoured the entire country for the best places to cover, we will go to Kandy, Yala, and the East," he said. He added that during the visit he will be doing what he is most famous for, taking an off beat and humorous look at travel.

 "It is the food that I'm mostly looking forward to. I've heard a lot of tales about Sri Lankan food and I've only had a Sri Lankan meal once and I have not been disappointed. I love the food here," he said. He added that one of the purposes of visiting Sri Lanka was to show the world that it is a safe place to travel to. "During our stay we will also visit the East, because we have always gone to places where people might not go or avoid because they think it's too dangerous," he said. 

 Ian said that one of the main objectives in his work is to show the resilient quality of people and how countries or cities bounce back after tragedies. "We are here to show that it's not dangerous to visit Sri Lanka. People are coming less because of the war and the tsunami. But we are here to show that it's all right here and that it is a fantastic place to be. This reminds me of a programme we did in New Orleans soon after the hurricane hit and I think that what we want to show is how resilient people are and how they survive and thrive in the face of adversity. People need to come back to Sri Lanka because it is really not that dangerous and foreigners have almost never been targeted," he added.



 The agent of change

 When Ian stared the 'Globe Trekker' programmes that made him famous, Travel Programmes on TV were targeted at the rich travelers who stayed at 5 star hotels, rode on travel coaches and avoided contact with the local population, except the hotel staff of course. 



 "When I started, most of the travel programmes were targeted at the rich, focused on surface things, ignored the normal people that you would meet on the streets and their issues. The presenters all spoke queens English and were stiff but that was not the way I wanted to do things," Ian said. "I wanted to talk to normal people, men and women that you would meet on the streets, eat food that they eat and get a true insight into how people live in a particular area. In my view it's the people who make places different from each other and travel programmes should pay more attention to that aspect," he added. 



 Ian claims that the inclusion of the normal people and destinations that is considered 'back packer' was the main reason for the success of his programmes. "I do not want to interview politicians and high brows. I'm more interested in normal people, people that you would meet in the streets and their participation is what makes the programme interesting," he said. "I'm not going to go there. I'm not going to be very formal and stiff.



 I love talking to people, mess about and have fun. That's why they got me in because I can click with people," he added. 

 Not only did Ian's popularity affect the way travel programmes were done but also it ushered in a new era in the TV presenting. TV channels allowed their presenters to be more adventurous in what they did; they were allowed to introduce a touch of 'informality' into presentations. 



 "The programme changed the way people did TV presenting; now even the language news presenters use is getting a bit colloquial. When I started out, a presenter using a cockney accent was unheard of but now that is not the case," he said. 



 Not the job for a vegetarian 

 Ian Wright used to be a vegetarian before he became a TV presenter but soon he realized that travel journalism was not the job for a man who does not eat meat. Not only did Ian have to eat the delicacies made of meat but also he had to taste an assortment of insects and reptiles including cockroaches and snakes in various countries.

 "I became a vegetarian when I was 12 but when I got this job and had to travel to various countries. I had to eat meat as a part of the show. It would have been stupid and hypocritical to pretend that I was a vegetarian," Ian said. 



 Making things up as he goes 

 Many of us think that an extensive amount of study and preparation goes on to the making of a travel programme. Although his crew arrives at a specific destination several days before Ian, and chooses the location, he prefers to visit these sights without reading much about them.

 "My crew makes a rough script and I read it, get an idea and improvise as I go along. When I started out I did extensive research but then I realized that if I knew about a place too much I would not be surprised or awed at these magnificent creations," he said. "My reactions will not be spontaneous and the audience at home will feel that I'm not really impressed or interested. That is something that I don't want," he added.



 To jump or not to jump?

 During our chat with Ian, his producer and the 'jumpers' were discussing the pros and cons of whether Ian should take the jump. Ian is keen but the others are not. Chamara, who is the lead jumper told us a story about a man who attempted this feat a several years ago.



 "When we said we charge 1000 rupees for the jump he laughed at us and tried to do it himself," recalled Chamara. "And he landed on the rocks and broke both his feet and we had to go save him (ouch.) It takes practice," he explained. Not the best pep talk one can give to the troops, one must say.



 After a long and careful perusal of the fact that one false step could mean the total rearrangement of Ian's bone structure, everyone decided that it was better if he didn't take the plunge. "I'm not worried about the height but it is the angle that bothers me and I think we better let this be," Ian finally said and everyone breathed a sigh of relief.

    Wearing the same clothes for a month When Ian did a series of City Guides to Lonely Planet he had to wear the same set of clothes during the entire period of filming. Since one can not film the entire city tour on one day and have to cut and mould sections of the footage together to create one coherent programme.

 "When I did the city guides series I had to wear the same set of clothes the entire time we shot. Because if you wear different clothes it would create major issues during editing, specially if you have to cut and mould different segments together," he said. "I had to wash my clothes during the night and prey that they would be dry the next day. But when we do a programme about a country it is not that bad. During this we move places each 3-4 days so I can wear different clothes in different locations," he added. 

 Of all the countries he has visited Ian prefers the cold countries, places above the Arctic Circle, Greenland, Iceland and northern Canada, whom he compares to one giant chunk of ice. "I love them because they are so different from other areas that we are used to. But also like countries like Cambodia, Ethiopia and Cuba. These are unique places," he said 

 Talking of Galle Fort, one can never miss the jumpers; gathered at one of the high points of the Fort, bare bodied and tanned. They are often seen waiting for their turns to jump from the highest edge of the fort wall in the deep blue waters below. While a few wait, one or two others would jump into the deep waters rising goose bumps and sending a chill down the spine on anyone who watches them.



 The Nation visited these jumpers to talk about their life, and to find out how this life-risking feat became their life-source. 

 Dilan Sandeepa and Asanga are members of the jumpers group which consist of six members. This group is a communion of six friends, who as children, had visited the Galle Fort for swimming as school boys. 



 "I live in Galle Town, so everyday after school, ever since I can remember, I have been coming to Galle Fort in the evenings," recalled Dilan. The Jumpers' culture had initially started more than a decade ago and the initial group had been Dilan's friends. "I used to come and join my friends at the Fort after school and we used to swim till evenings. Gradually the swimming sessions turned into diving sessions and we started experimenting on the dives at different levels and with different styles," said Asanga, who had been one of Dilan's companions for his after-school swimming missions. 



 Dilan said that after few years of swimming and watching their friends do the jump, they too felt like becoming professional jumpers and making a living out if it. "It was exactly six years back that I took this decision. I figured I was quite good at this. I too started jumping with my set of friends," said Dilan. Although Dilan talks about the jump in very with ease, each time they perform the jump the viewers gasp with fear while some hold their breaths in awe after sighting this wonderful feat. 



 While we were talking with these extraordinaire performers, Asanga did a jump for the viewers. He stood at the edge of the highest point of the Fort Wall, and jumped while stretching his arms and legs like a sky diver and finally plunged into the deep blue waters of the sea below. "I am not scared of water, so it makes the jumping much easier. But much practice has to be done to attempt a jump of this sort as if you miss the aim and jump in a wrong position, instead of landing in the sea you would end up on the rocks," he said. 



 My parents and family do not like this job and they constantly tell me to quit since they are concerned about my safety. But this is what I like to do and what I am good at, so how can I leave it," questioned Dilan. He said that on an average day, where there are usual tourist arrivals, one jumper is able to earn about Rs. 3000. Recalling one of the most memorable incidents which they had faced, Asanga said that they can never forget the day that one foreigner challenged them to do their jump if they pay him Rs. 2000. "We agreed but since we knew that this jump was risky we positioned one of our fellow divers on one of the rocks below as a precautionary measure," said Asanga pointing at one of the rocks below that stood up from the sparkling blue waters. The foreigner had jumped and instead of landing in the sea he had fallen and thanks to the jumper, who was positioned below, he was lucky to survive with just a broken leg. 



 They start their day at about 8 in the morning and continue doing their profession till the dusk creeps into the fort. "We take turns to do the jumps and on average days each jumper gets about three rounds. We charge Rs. 1000 from the tourists and Rs. 400 from local tourists," said Dilan adding that a jumper would earn around Rs. 2500 per day.



