SportsThe game of cricket enjoyed an unprecedented 2008. New rules, new attitudes and new teams lit up a memorable year for the sport. 

 This was cricket's year of the cold shower shock. A sleeping giant was brazenly jolted out of slumber, its feathers ruffled, its trappings of banality shredded. Though the catalyst for change was India's World Twenty20 triumph in 2007, this was the year power brokers finally came to terms with the weight of the game's ambitions. 



 In 2008, the IPL enticed cricket to step out of its comfort zone. There can be no going back now. 

 Process set in motion, the game changed faster than ever before. New money brought in fresh ideas, techniques, energetic crowds and new problems. Change is both a blessing and a curse, but inevitable. It's all about pushing the envelope, though not so hard that it's off the table. 



 2009, then, will be the year of the balancing act. Can a game with such confined global reach sustain three forms of the game? It's clear spectators from India to England have taken a liking to T20. 

 It's also clear, after endless debate, that elderly Test cricket is far from senile, often providing nuanced drama on a scale unparalleled in sport. Maybe the next year will see a night Test. The One-day game, though, suffered as these various forms jostled for mind space and another new Powerplay rule failed to inject much excitement. Can the calendar be tweaked to accommodate everything? 



 Unsurprisingly, the revolutionary notion of T20 club cricket was the definitive trend of the year. Off the field, IPL was the broker between sport and entertainment. It enthused the game's economy. On it, the league set off a domino effect across the sport: The condensed demands of T20 ensured that new shots were devised, aggressive postures adopted and the validity of some long-held Test records questioned. 



 As Andrew Flintoff said, not playing in the IPL severely affected England's ability to raise their game in the Test arena. 

 Another offshoot, the Indian Cricket League, spurred by its pariah status, nearly decimated three national teams and ensured its effect could not be ignored even by ostrich administrators. That is another headache for them next year, then. 



 Last but not the least in a year of ceaseless innovation, though, was India. This was India's time, both off the field and finally, on it too. Through the good and the bad and the path-breaking, India was omnipresent. Some audacious and skillful players helped break the monotony of Australia's domination, throwing the field open and spurring even larger changes. The full impact will be eagerly awaited in the coming months. – [TNN] 

 There has been plenty of soul-searching in Australia over the last few days after their shock first Test defeat against South Africa in Perth. 

 After the game, skipper Ricky Ponting said his side's batsmen were to blame for the six-wicket loss. 

 But with South Africa achieving the second-highest run chase in Test history, making 414-4, Australia's bowling attack has come under intense scrutiny. 

 BBC Sport spoke to Terry Jenner, former spin guru to legendary bowler Shane Warne, for his take on the bowling problems facing Australia. 



 After the South Africa defeat, is the focus on Australia's bowling attack valid?

 "The focus on the bowling is not overplayed. Brett Lee was way below his best, Peter Siddle appears to be just short of the standard while Jason Krejza tries to get a wicket every ball and at international level you can't afford to do that. 

 "Lee has struggled for the best part of four months now. It is hard to say that because he has carried the Australian bowlers for the last year since the retirement of Glenn McGrath and Shane Warne. "Siddle didn't move the ball at all. He was told to pitch the ball up in the second innings, which he did but he did not deviate. 



 "He is a hard worker and he is a guy with terrific spirit but you can't see him bowling them out. 

 "On the bowling side it did not look good for Australia but the batsmen have to look at themselves as well - Andrew Symonds and Michael Clarke gave away their wickets. 



 "Australia could have shut South Africa out of the game and on another day they might have." 

 Did Australia plan properly for the retirement of Shane Warne and Glenn McGrath?

 "The right word is complacency. They probably thought the day was never going to come when Warne was going to retire. 

 "You could lose one top bowler, but to lose both was gut wrenching. We hadn't prepared people to take over and Stuart Clark just happened to appear on the scene. 



 "Australia thought they had more time than they had and they were caught short." 

 Was it right to drop Jason Krejza for the second Test?

 "He does give the ball a tweak and he does spin it hard but he went for over four runs an over. 

 "Even though he is in his mid-20s he is very inexperienced and at this stage Jason does not know how to bowl defensively. He just keeps trying to attack. 



 "In India he took 8-215 on his Test debut but the performance covered a multitude of sins. He was expensive but he bowled wicket-taking balls on a pitch that helped him. 

 "You would normally expect Lee to have the batsmen on the back foot and then Krejza at the other end maybe could get away with one or two bad balls. But against South Africa, Lee was not troubling them. 

 "Jason has paid the price but it is not the end for him." 



 Why is there a problem with developing Australian spinners?

 "Every guy in a state squad wants to play all the forms of cricket but for a spinner, it takes a significant amount of experience to be able to change your game to do that. 

 "It's the longer form of the game that suffers because a young spinner takes the spin off the ball so he can become more accurate and when they do that they become semi dot-ball bowlers. 

 "That's why we have no leg-spinners in Australia at the moment because they are asked, through a total lack of understanding, to bowl dot balls. 



 "Shane Warne says that when you defend with the field, then you can attack with the ball. 

 "It takes a lot longer to develop a wrist spinner with accuracy, it's much easier to sacrifice the spin to become accurate. But you don't bring your spin back, it's gone forever. 

 "You have more leg spinners going around in England than we have in Australia. You never would have thought an Australian could say that because we have been breeding them here for years. 

 "But we are not developing youngsters because we say to them that they have to bowl economically." 



 What should happen now?

 "We need a change of attitude and we now have to have a rethink about how we develop these guys. 

 "Cricket Australia have employed Shane to try and get through to captains about encouraging the development of wrist spin as well as using field placings to protect them - and I hope they listen to him. 

 "I would also look at the form of cricket spin bowlers play. 



 "There is a young player in New South Wales called Steven Smith, who is very talented - but he is playing limited-over cricket. 

 "He should play just four-day cricket instead. If he is our future, let's develop him as such. 

 "Warne played a host of Tests before he played a one-day international and that allowed him to develop his craft. 

 "We are not bereft of some reasonably good developing cricketers but you have to work out how they are going to get their opportunity to show they are up to it." 



 How should rising stars be handled?

 "Australia have taken a few guys on tours in recent times that have looked like they might have filled a role. 

 "Queensland's Ashley Noffke took a massive number of wickets over here. They took him to the West Indies, he didn't play, they come home and he struggled for form. 



 "There was the same problem with Ben Hilfenhaus, it took him ages to regain his form. 

 "Doug Bollinger went to India, didn't bowl a ball in anger and he struggled in the first part of the season. 

 "Beau Casson went to the West Indies and didn't do a bad job when he was asked to play but then they opted not to take him to India, which was a surprise, and ever since then he has gone backwards. 

 "People should be accountable for these things, but they are not. 

 "It's almost like they are saying 'put a line through him, who's next?'." – [BBC]



Note: Since this article was written South Africa have gone on to win the second Test played at Melbourne by nine wickets to clinch the 3-match series 2-0 with one to play at Sydney. gets MBE in New Year honours Britain's Olympic heroes dominate the sporting New Year Honours list, with cyclist Chris Hoy knighted. 

 Team-mate Bradley Wiggins and sailing star Ben Ainslie are appointed CBEs, while double gold medal-winning swimmer Rebecca Adlington becomes an OBE. 



 Team GB cycling performance director Dave Brailsford is appointed CBE, as is rowing counterpart David Tanner. 

 Lewis Hamilton becomes an MBE after becoming Formula One's youngest world champion in only his second season. 

 Reading FC chairman John Madejski receives a knighthood for his charity work, and BBC cricket commentator Christopher Martin-Jenkins is appointed MBE. 



 "I was lucky to be in the right place and at the right time to commentate and write about it," Martin-Jenkins told BBC Radio 4. "Cricket is the most profound team game - the best game of the lot." 

 Scotland's Hoy, recently crowned BBC Sports Personality of the Year, became the first Briton in 100 years to win three golds at an Olympics with his success in Beijing in August. 

 Hoy has a double reason to celebrate as his mother Carol, who is a retired nurse, is appointed MBE for her work on sleep-related illnesses. 



 "To become a knight from riding your bike, it's mad," said the 32-year-old Hoy. 

 "It feels a bit strange to be honest. I still can't quite believe it. 

 "It's incredible and I'm absolutely delighted. To be given a knighthood is an enormous honour - it means so much to me and also to my family." 



 Sailor Ainslie is honoured after winning his third straight sailing gold in Beijing to add to a silver from Atlanta in 1996, while track cyclist Wiggins is similarly recognised after claiming two gold medals in Beijing to take his Olympic medal tally to six. 

 "I'm extremely honoured with a CBE," Ainslie told BBC Radio 5 Live. 

 "When you are racing at the Olympics, you're racing for Queen and country." 

 He added: "Receiving the CBE is a different feeling to winning medals. This is great for people in the background. It's fantastic for my family." 



 Disabled swimmer David Roberts and rider Lee Pearson also become CBEs. 

 Roberts won four golds in Beijing to equal Dame Tanni Grey-Thompson's record of 11 Paralympic titles, while Pearson won three equestrian Paralympic golds. 



 Adlington, 19, who finished third in the vote at Sports Personality of the Year, was honoured for becoming the first British woman to win an Olympic gold in the pool since Anita Lonsbrough in 1960. 

 "I'm absolutely delighted to receive the OBE - it is fantastic to be recognised in the New Year Honours," she said. 

 "There are so many amazing names on the list, it's something I'll treasure for the rest of my life." 



 Sailors Sarah Ayton, Sarah Webb and Iain Percy also become OBEs for winning their second Olympic gold medals in Beijing, as does rower Steve Williams, who added another coxless four gold to the one he won in Athens. 

 Disabled swimmer Eleanor Simmonds is appointed MBE after becoming Britain's youngest ever individual Paralympic gold medallist in Beijing, aged 13. She is also the youngest person to receive the honour. 



 "The last three months have been a whirlwind and I feel as though I am living in a fairytale," she said. 

 Gold medal-winning cyclists Ed Clancy, Geraint Thomas, Jason Kenny, Jamie Staff, Paul Manning, Nicole Cooke, Victoria Pendleton and Rebecca Romero also become MBEs, taking the list of Beijing Olympic cyclists to be honoured to 10. 

 "Everybody in our team dedicate their lives to the pursuit of a dream - to win a gold medal," said Brailsford. 



 "When they do get recognised in this way it is breathtaking and a fantastic honour." 

 Olympic champion rowers Zac Purchase, Mark Hunter, Andy Triggs-Hodge, Tom James, and Peter Reed all become MBEs alongside gold medal-winning canoeist Tim Brabants. 

 Beijing sailing champions Paul Goodison, Andrew Simpson and Pippa Wilson, who won her first gold alongside Ayton and Webb, are also appointed MBEs. 



 Christine Ohuruogu, the 400m champion who was the only British athlete to win a track and field gold in Beijing, is similarly appointed MBE, as is gold medal-winning boxer James DeGale. 

 "It's very strange - it was a bolt out of the blue," Ohuruogu told BBC Radio 5 Live. 

 "To have your name read out a lot along with the names of inspirational people is great. It'll take time to sink in." 

 GB sailing team manager Stephen Park becomes an OBE and boxing coach Terry Edwards becomes an MBE. 

 Hamilton's MBE rounds off an astonishing year after he won won the Formula One championship in 2008 and was Sports Personality of the Year runner-up. 



 The 23-year-old McLaren driver received a personally written note of congratulations from the Queen. 

 "It is a massive honour and incredible privilege," said Hamilton. 

 "It is the most amazing culmination to what has been quite a year for me." – [BBC]



