Sports

 Kevin Pietersen always has been a man to chance his arm. 

 Perhaps no-one should be surprised that someone who happily switch-hits one of the world's best spinners for six risked his job as England captain in a who-blinks-first contest with Peter Moores and the ECB. 

 This time, however, the gamble has not paid off. After a mere three Tests as England skipper, the reign of King KP appears to have come to a rapid end. 



 There's something terribly English about the whole sorry shaboodle. Just as the Australian team looks to be at its weakest in a quarter of a century, with a home Ashes series just around the corner and barely a ticket left for any of the five Tests, English cricket has taken careful aim and shot itself in both feet. 



 Other countries lose their head coach. Others lose captains. It's to be expected. But it takes a special kind of skill to lose both coach and captain on the same morning. 



 It's less than six months since Pietersen began his captaincy with that blistering century and win in his first Test in charge, less than four weeks since he was praised to the rooftops for his handling of the team in leading them back to India after the terrorist attacks in Mumbai. 



 Even then, however, the whispers were circulating. 

 Pietersen was unhappy with Moores' boot-camp approach to training. Senior players were unhappy with Pietersen's leadership style. Pietersen wanted Michael Vaughan back in his team; Moores did not. 

 Something had to give. Coaches and captains have to respect each other, if nothing else. 

 England's rebirth after the low point of home defeat to New Zealand in 1999 came about in large part because of the relationship forged between skipper Nasser Hussain and coach Duncan Fletcher, and continued with the mutual admiration society of Fletcher and Michael Vaughan. When coach and captain saw things differently, as Fletcher and Andrew Flintoff did during the last Ashes series, results went downhill fast. 



 What no-one foresaw was that Pietersen would be the one to go. While his record as Test captain was perfectly average - one win, one draw and one loss - his star was still in the ascendancy. 

 He was averaging 52 in both Tests and one-dayers as skipper, up on his numbers before his appointment as captain, and clearly relished being the man in charge. 



 As his former Hampshire and England team-mate Shaun Udal says, KP wanted the job as England captain "very, very badly". 

 Moores, having lost four of his seven series as coach, was supposed to be the man in danger. 

 That both have lost their jobs leaves England rudderless, drifting slowly towards the rocks at exactly the time when a firm hand at the tiller was required. 



 They leave for the tour of the West Indies in exactly two weeks. In that time the ECB must find a new captain and a new coach, reunite a team seemingly split in two and then convince the rest of the country that this time they've made appointments that will work. 



 What now for Pietersen? This is the first real set-back he has suffered since leaving his native South Africa in 2001. 

 The captain's job was the pinnacle of his career. Having lost it once, he's unlikely to be offered it again. 

 His adopted country must hope not. Pietersen's Test average is better than anyone else's in the team. In the last Ashes series, he scored 490 runs at over 50 an innings. Without him, a middle order which is already patchy starts to look positively threadbare. 



 England cannot afford to lose him as a batsman. And even if he does commit to the cause - and Pietersen has always been intent on becoming the best Test batsman in the world - how does his ego cope with being demoted to the ranks? 

 Whoever takes over as Test captain could find himself in charge of a team that contains four previous captains - KP, Flintoff, Paul Collingwood and Vaughan - with his star batsman bursting with resentment. 

 Then there's the one-day team, thrashed in its last five matches, tactically exposed, so far behind the pace this winter that it became embarrassing. 



 The likely Test captain, Andrew Strauss, is not in the one-day squad for the Windies tour. Unless the selectors decide to perform a humiliating about-turn, that means a return to split captains, something which has failed every time it's been tried in the past. 

 Pietersen's singlemindedness and self-belief have been key to the success he's enjoyed as an international cricketer. Unfortunately they may also now have contributed his downfall as England skipper. 

 Ricky Ponting must have gone to sleep in Sydney wearing a smile the size of the harbour bridge. [BBC] 

 Not so long ago if you were seeking greener pastures 'Go West' would be the apt direction. But times have changed geographically. In the Persian Gulf on a not so particularly oil-rich piece of desert sits the capital of dreams. Or you can call it the desert of dreams. They say sky is the limit here in Dubai. In it's world full of impossible luxury schemes ranging from the man made archipelago 'The World' to 'The Palm' to 'The Ski dome' it's quite hard to fathom why the word 'Sports' is just a mere byline. Soccer has the most sincere and insane fan base across the globe. Cricket fight's a close second and it's no different here in the Gulf. Across the sprawling sand bases, kids to adults primarily made up from the expatriate community pursue an amazing allure for this game of cricket all through the year holding against the benign truth of the wicked heat. At times the temperature rises well over 50 degrees but no matter what the thermometer indicates, the official temperature rarely exceeds 49 degrees. But the game of cricket never stops as does the teeming construction. The advent of the World cricket governing body,



 ICC moving base permanently to Dubai must be breaking new boundary. Awe inspiring as it could be, the game should flourish, you would expect. The Emirates cricket board governs the game here with an affiliate each in Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Sharjah and Ajman. After plenty of misdirected roots the Dubai Cricket Council (DCC) came into formation in the '90s and thus far the most well represented of the lot. UAE was one of the 3 associate member teams to make it's debut at the 1996 World Cup fully comprising of expatriates albeit their skipper Sultan Zarwani, a proclaimed but self obsessed cricketer in his own right. A decade on and with fragmented ICC imposed player eligibility criteria, at best UAE has been on top rung in the Asian Cricket Council version. Half the squad is now filtered with either naturalized or native locals, a clear testimony to the magnitude of the interest and spurring growth of the game in the region. 



 But as Dubai promises to take itself beyond history and imagination, a boom in economy and infrastructure does not necessarily have to be a boon for certain sectors. Here's the vindication. Ever since Abdulrehman Bukhatir laid that artificial strip in Sharjah infusing unbridled interest in the game the equilibrium of cricket here changed forever. DCC followed on heels and besides the countless number of matches played over the weekends; the birth of a junior cricket academy was a mooting process to create, build and develop the game at grassroots level. I mean the passionate enough weekend games would go on but on a surreal thought what lies beneath for the future unless you groom, nurse and develop youngsters to take on the mantle of UAE cricket. 



 With this in hindsight the DCC began it's junior academy in its own backyard in Al Jadaf with a count of just 6 young bucks in 2004 that swelled month-on-month to a reaping 50 plus by the time tragedy struck local cricket a few months back with the proposed demolition of the very DCC grounds setup. The once dusty sand pit has been transformed into a cricketing hub with DCC forking out a significant amount of funds with the aid of Emirates Airlines as a primary sponsor, in creating two solid and well laid turf wickets besides the 5 cement tracks. The matches played there have been countless. Some call it the encounter zone, especially since Sharjah's fade out of fashion as time wore on. 



 In a land abuzz with a flux of business propositions, sponsorship should have been the least aspect of argument. But that very fact got in the way of DCC's attempts to organise and stage many inter-school cricket tournaments, the only base of talent spotting afforded to absorb fresh talent. Local dairy products giants Al Rawabi were patronised enough to sponsor age-group tournaments for four years till 2004 but their sudden pull out left scars rather than a tradition. The DCC academy became more of a relief measure to the aspiring kids who dreamed big without knowing of the impending implications. It's hard to explain to kids why the Dubai coastline is fast becoming inhabited. 



 But it's even harder to make them understand why bulldozers and bacco's would swamp a cricket field to tear down every semblance of it. Land here in the sprawling desert is certainly not hard to come by. But an incessant keenness to stick to the cosmopolitan business bay buffer has given warranty to clamp down and pull apart anything unworthy to reach goals and measures. It's true that cities were built over the course of decades and some even centuries. But in Dubai there is no sense of period. It's more like an architectural delight. What is flat and bare must rise. But as the skyline deepens so does many questions. What could be the repercussions and in at the behest of what other? 



 A game of cricket played right across the best part of the sun-filled sessions of the day is not just another sport that can be thrown to the out-backs for the want of structures and growth. It's an obsession in India while it has fast become the national sport of Pakistan, earned Sri Lanka instant recognition the world over, remains a passion for the Australians besides being a tradition in England, the godfathers of the game. It's a huge money spinner and as stated earlier, next only to the great sport of soccer. It has enriched the lives of countless millions and enhanced the balance of many business organisations whilst creating stars out of unknown and unheard of gully's. Cricket has simply become a profession in itself. Every aspiring kid wants to be a Tendulkar or a Lara or perhaps a Ronaldinho or a Beckham if interest sways. Sports, if you like, is not just a time pass anymore.



 It can teach you the high and low of the life chart elevating from stardom to villain within an act. Kids learn to balance between ethics, morals and discipline whilst savouring the very enjoyment it brings to the inner sanctum. So in reverting back to the point of discussion, to take away this joy from a growing kid is akin to depriving a child of its mother's love. To home in further, the thought in itself to demolish a well established sports environment in DCC is not only a crime but leaves the entire organisation in pure limbo. Whilst offering an alternative to pursue remains a blessing, the lack of it clearly has left the game in a bow-less rudder. Apparently the eviction notice's to vacate the premises kept pouring in but the resistance was self-evident as the games continued till the last straw. While the aged users obviously understood the waiting fate, the youngsters hadn't a clue what to expect even whilst the last sessions were conducted. Any sane individual who witnessed the solemn parting good-bye's between the emotionally charged DCC academy coach's and the day's assembled 30 odd kids would have had a heartache the size of a football. What's more the attempts by these usually calm but popular men to hide away their loss of words was as visibly obvious as the towering skyscrapers across the metropolis of Sheikh Zayed Road. The kids weren't entirely teary eyed but suspicion was enough aroused that this was a no-return send off. It was brutal to behold, the utterly sudden change of mood from joy to despair. 

 The end of session group photograph had 'em all in smiles though but the soreness behind that grin was evident to the naked eye. As night fell and the kids strutted off for the last time the floodlit arena was still glistening with so much euphoria but with a million reasons to cry than a thousand reasons to smile!!! Lack of sporting options may only drive these kids to join the play station generation. At a time when the world is caught in a quagmire full of ethnic, religious, nuclear and political conflicts, kids in a park is a better solution and image than kids let loose out on the streets. Has cricket died a natural death here in Dubai? Time hold's the answer. I was my own enemy last year: Brett Lee MELBOURNE: Injured Australian pace spearhead Brett Lee has blamed himself for the current breakdown, saying he ended up being his own enemy by bowling long spells despite having no strength to carry on. 

 Lee bowled a massive 4500 deliveries, over 580 overs, in the year gone by. The workload not just took a toll on his form but also left him down with an ankle injury, which required a surgery, fourth of his career. 



 "I'd be fine in the first spell because the adrenaline's going and you've got the brand new ball in your hand, but then I would find that I just had nothing to give later in the day," Lee recalled. 

 "I guess I've been behind the eight-ball since India. I didn't have the greatest of preparations there and I've probably been chasing my tail ever since. It's been a difficult year, but maybe it's a good thing to listen to your body when it's telling you to slow down," he added. 



 "I was blown away with the amount of overs I bowled in 2008," the 32-year-old said. 

 Lee said he never realised that he had strained himself so much until he picked up the ankle injury during the ongoing Test series against South Africa. 

 "You don't really look at it as a whole when you're bowling, but when you step back and look at the stats it's obviously a lot," Lee said. 



 "I think 2008 has been a unique year. I have certainly bowled a lot of overs. I think if you were constantly bowling 580 overs in a season and you're being asked to bowl 150 kmh, it's going to put a lot of stress on the body. It's a difficult job, but I have been asking for the overs," he added. 



 Lee said he has been feeling better post the surgery and hopes to be in form on return. 

 "This is an opportunity for me to get my health back to 100 per cent. It's only been in the last three or four days that I have started to feel normal again," The pacer, who has taken 310 wickets in 76 Tests, said. 

 "The surgeon seemed pretty happy with how it all went, so that's a good start. I'm only 32 and I want to play at least another three years. There are plenty of things I would still like to accomplish in the game. I'd like to cross off 400 Test wickets," he added. – [PTI] When it comes to backyard cricket battles, anything South Africa's Morkels managed was just as fierce as those held in Australia by the Hussey brothers.

 But paceman Morne Morkel believes those stoushes with older brother Albie in the backyard at Vereeniging, on the outskirts of Johannesburg, are having a lasting effect on the international stage. 



 When Morne prepares to bowl this limited-overs series, starting with Sunday's Twenty20 match at the MCG, it will be Albie, a hard-hitting all-rounder, who he turns to, to inquire what batsmen look for in the dying overs. 

 "He knows more about my game probably than I know about myself," Morne said on Friday. 

 "It's awesome having him next me, it's a comfort zone for me, especially my bowling. 



 "He's a guy who can hit the ball as hard as anyone in world cricket, so for me to go and plan my death overs, he is the ideal man to go and chat with, so it's an advantage for me." 

 But Morne Morkel does not expect to be asking Albie for advice all through this series, as he expects to spend his share of time resting. 



 He and fellow quicks Dale Steyn and Makhaya Ntini did a power of work through Proteas' Test series victory, and have been selected to back up in the limited-overs series. 

 But South Africa's desperation to have the trio fit and firing for the return Tests in February means the tourists are likely to rotate their bowlers regularly over the course of two Twenty20 matches and five one-dayers. 



 "They're probably going to rotate the pace bowlers, especially with the Test matches being so close (together) and going back to South Africa again," Morne said. 

 "The vital thing for the bowlers now is to recover and get fit again because it was quite draining, especially the last Tests being back-to-back Test matches. 



 "So it's going to be vital to (focus) on recovery and getting ourselves ready to run in again." 

 Like his brother, Albie Morkel bowls right-arm pace, but is better with the bat. 

 He could not be considered for the Test series because of recent shoulder troubles, which makes him keen to bowl in a match again after seven weeks or rehabilitation. 



 "I haven't had the opportunity to bowl in the middle, but in the nets and training I've been bowling, so it feels good," he said. 

 Meanwhile, South Africa captain Graeme Smith has returned home after his heroics in the Test series, and plans to meet with a surgeon to discuss the tennis elbow problem which has plagued him for months. 

 "It is really a matter of resting it, and then finding a window of eight to 12 weeks so that I can have surgery," he told a press conference at Johannesburg airport. 



 "In the meantime, we will just be treating it and keeping it manageable." 

 Smith skippered Proteas to their first series win in Australia and made a valiant effort to save the third Test at the SCG, when he batted despite his injured right elbow and a broken finger on his left hand. [Agencies]



