Sports

 Some have begun to wonder why the rugby front is quiet. This isn't the time of the year when there is a lull in rugby. Those who know rugby politics will vouch that this is a time when people start to aggressively campaign for votes to make a mark at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the Sri Lanka Rugby Football Union (SLRFU). 



 Sri Lanka's rugby has seen its character change immensely over the last couple of years. Today it's the man who is willing to throw the most money and dump the book on rugby ethics in the dustbin, who'll have his way. 



 Asanga Seneviratne, the incumbent vice-president of the SLRFU, has to be warned not to feel overly confident that he'll get to the top seat of the rugby union uncontested when the council meets this year to appoint a new set of office bearers. Seneviratne might have to battle it out with an ambitious candidate, who knows? We know the rugby fraternity created this Frankenstein called competition back in 2006 when for the first time in the sport's history the stage was set to have a contest for the rugby union presidency. 



 Coming back to the silence in rugby, many in the rugby fraternity believe that the rugby union election is not the talking point in rugby anymore. We saw rugby's boat being rocked by controversies which came in the form of a revolt by the country's best players, the sacking of the selection committee and appointing of two captains, the latter which some believe is ridiculous as having two fathers claiming for the ownership of one child. The rugby fraternity has seen the worst of rugby's controversies that the subject fails to draw attention anymore. 



 Let's stress a point. Rugby has lost a chunk of its appeal, thanks to how the sport has been managed at home. People saw controversy, bad performances and rugby politics at its worst. This scenario sets the stage for individuals to start focusing on self-improvement and setting of individual goals, come sport or whatever. CR's Mohammed Sheriff said goodbye to Colombo and found an ideal rugby 'nest' in Kandy Sports Club. Sri Lanka's best product in rugby Hisham Abdeen thought its time to serve rugby from a higher platform and launched his own rugby academy. SLRFU's former CEO Dilroy Fernando thought its time to market his capabilities elsewhere and found employment at Ceylonese Rugby and Football Club (CR&FC). When sport is stuck and is unable to unlock itself, the wise show how to move on. 



 Sri Lankan sport as a whole has broken down, all because of faulty management and administrators who don't value the concept that no one is bigger than the game. 



 In such an atmosphere sport can do well only if it has players or individuals of international repute. Cricket has weathered a storm since its affairs were handled by an interim committee because of names like Mahela Jayawardene, Sanath Jayasuriya, Muttiah Muralitharan, Kumar Sangakkara and Chaminda Vaas to name a few. The same can be said about sports like athletics, boxing, motor racing, football, wushu because of individuals like Susanthika Jayasinghe, Dian Gomes, Dilantha Malagamuwa, Manilal Fernando, Manel Dharmakeerthi respectively. 



 Many frowned when rugby players started becoming so self-centred and to change clubs, almost every season. These traditionalists affirmed, then, that club loyalty was on top of the list. They underscored the fact that everyone should be readily available to serve rugby through the SLRFU. That was then, when the union was the guardian angel of the sport. At present the sport is run by a powerful club, affluent and powerful individuals with vested interest and last but not least the country's Sports Minister. Rugby has been stripped, naked, of its fabric on which was once printed in bold letters 'A SPORT THAT MOULDS MEN'. 



 Under these circumstances players have little choice but to better their prospects by leaning their ladders against what we famously call 'the right wall'. The 2009 rugby season could spring a lot of surprises in the form of who plays for what club, who sponsors whom, how teams are going to change their attire, how much muscle each player has put on during off season training and who captains what team. Sri Lanka might also see new faces in the form of foreign coaches. 



 In the thick of all these exciting happenings it's very doubtful that we might notice any changes to who sits where at the rugby union headquarters at Reid Avenue. 

 Off-spinner Sachithra Senanayake dished out a valuable all-round performance, 40 runs and a match bag of 6/60 to spearhead defending champs SSC towards an innings and 177-run victory over hapless Badureliya CC in a Premier Tier 'A' match at Maitland Place yesterday. Resuming at 15-1 in reply to SSC's mammoth first innings score of 436-9 declared, Badureliya were bundled out for 161 and following-on could muster only 98. Only middle-order batsmen Upul Fernando (30) and Rasika Priyadarshana (35) managed to withstand the resistance of the SSC bowlers in the first innings. However in their second essay Badureliya were made to eat humble-pie by spinners Serasinghe (4/37) and Kaushal Lokuarachchi (4/30). 



 At Braybrooke Place Chilaw Marians resuming from 361-7 made 389 against Moors SC with the help of a late century from left-hander Gayan Wijekoon who scored 100. Moors replied with 282-7 at close of play. CCC batsmen were penalized five runs for running on the danger zone of the pitch more than twice. But that did not affect their batting as they boldly replied with 352 against Tamil Union at P. Sara Stadium. Tamil Union scored 309. 



 In reply to NCC's 258, Bloomfield ended the day at 359-7 at Maitland Place powered by a season's best 111 from Yohan de Silva. Colts gained first innings points when they replied with 226 against Army SC's 175 at Havelock Park. Army was struggling at 120-9 at close of play. All matches will resume today from 9.30am. At Sara Stadium: Tamil Union 309 (including 5 penalty runs) and 2-0 (2) at close. 

 CCC 16-0 contd 352 (93.5) (Daminda Ranaweera 75, Charith Sylvester 55, Jehan Mubarak 25, Nuwan Perera 50, Bhathiya Perera 29, Gamini Chandrakumara 36, Muthumudalige Pushpakumara 3/87, Malinga Surappullige 2/55, Sachithra Serasinghe 2/44, Sanjaya Chathuranga 3/57) Right-arm fast bowler Chathura Atukorale helped bottom seeded Sebastianites to create a sensational upset when he captured a career best 7/21 to dismiss Police SC for 57 in a Premier Tier 'B' match at Police Park yesterday. Police were made to follow on as Sebastianites made a mammoth 372 in their first innings and were 65-3 at close of play needing a further 250 runs to avoid an innings defeat. 



 Sebastianites added a further 126 runs to their first innings total when they resumed from their overnight score of 246-6. Sebastianites total was bolstered by an elegant century from Lahiru Peiris (104) and an unbeaten 59 by Atukorale. 

 Saracens were 22-0 at close of play, chasing a moderate target of 247 runs with all their wickets remaining against Singha SC at Thurstan ground. Left-arm orthodox bowler Malinda Pushpakumara (3/42 and 6/95) captured a match bag of 9/137 as Singha SC scored 164 and 306 in both innings. Saracens totalled 223 in their first innings.



 BRC are in troubled with only three second innings wickets in hand and a small lead of 25 runs after following on against Moratuwa SC at De Zoysa Stadium. Moratuwa scored 299 runs and bowled BRC out for 127 in the first innings. In their follow on BRC were 197-7 when play was halted. Panadura SC replied with a massive 413 against Lankan CC's first innings score of 219 at Panadura. Lankan CC was struggling at 30-3 in their second innings at the close. All matches will continue today. At Police Park: Sebastianites 246-6 contd 372 (127.3) (Dhanusha Indunil 45, Hemantha Boteju 38, Ruwin Peiris 29, Lahiru Peiris 104, Dhammika Perera 37, Chathura Atukorale 59n.o., Mahesh Priyadharshana 2/82, Amila Mendis 4/94, Manjula Jayawardena 2/24) 

 Police 57 (17.2) (Ramesh Kumar 15, Manjula Jayawardena 17, Dhammika Perera 3/19, Chathura Atukorale 7/21) and 65-3 (32) at close (Palitha Kumara 19n.o., Supun Nirmala 14n.o., Chathura Atukorale 2/17) At Reid Avenue: Singha SC and 306 (74.1) (Rishan Kavinga 45, KMC Fernando 55, Asela Wewalwela 23, Tusitha Madanayake 78, Sampath Perera 30, Sameera Withana 27, Malinda Pushpakumara 6/95, Geeth Alwis 3/82)

 Saracens SC 205-9 contd 223 (40.5) (Arosh Janodha 53, Geeth Alwis 36, Chamara Soysa 58 n.o., Neville Liyanage 4/67, Sampath Perera 2/27, Dunil Abeydeera 2/27) and 22-0 (7) at close. At De Zoysa Stadium: Moratuwa SC 299 

 BRC 35-1 contd 127 (44.1) (Farhan Dawood 34, Gihan Perera 30, Sudeepa Perera 6/59, Sudeera Soysa 3/23) and 197-7 (51) at close (Muditha Fernando 73, Gihan Perera 74, Sudeera Soysa 4/54) - (MNA) SA cricketers in line for financial windfall JOHANNESBURG: South African players are in line for hefty bonuses following their historic Test series victory in Australia. 

 Cricket South Africa chief executive Gerald Majola said the players would share the profit as shareholders of CSA. 



 "In a way, the players are now each writing out their own cheques with their performances," Majola said. 

 "The better they perform and the more money that comes in, the more the players benefit from it," he was quoted as saying in Afrikaans daily 'Beeld'. 



 Majola hoped the first series win over Australia in Australia would also generate interest in the game in South Africa. 

 "There will now be unprecedented interest in the game for the (forthcoming) home series (against Australia) and with many more people streaming to the grounds, the players' share of the financial benefits will be that much greater.



 "The players realise that as shareholders of CSA, there is a responsibility on them to achieve, and thereby ensure that cricket (in South Africa) grows and is profitable," Majola said. – [PTI] ABU DHABI, (AFP) - Britain's Andy Murray defeated world number one Rafael Nadal 6-4, 5-7, 6-3 in the final of the Abu Dhabi exhibition here on Saturday to score a crucial blow ahead of the Australian Open.

 The world number four had a double reason to celebrate his 2hr 43min win with this three-day event representing the first time he had beaten both Nadal and world number two Roger Federer in the same tournament.

 Murray will get the chance to repeat his achievement when he joins Nadal and Federer at the Qatar Open in Doha from Monday, the opening week of the 2009 competitive season.

 The Scotsman also picked up the winner-takes-all cheque of 250,000 dollars for his win over Nadal, the reigning French Open, Wimbledon and Olympic champion. Englishman Jeremy Snape helped South Africa find the mental strength to topple the Australians. The South Africans were once the most renowned chokers in the game, but the recruitment of Snape as their sports psychologist and performance coach played a part in changing that.



 Since joining Northamptonshire as a 19-year-old, Snape has developed one of the more varied CVs in English cricket. He played 10 one-day internationals, spent a brief term as England's slow-bowling coach, and then set up a company — Sporting Edge — that studies management styles in the English Premier League and county cricket — the results of which helped formulate South Africa's game plan.



 "There is definitely a blueprint for how to run a successful team," Snape says.

 "When I speak to a player — Morne Morkel, say — I tell him that he is the managing director of Morne Morkel Ltd, and that everything he does, whether it be training, nutrition, or mental preparation, will affect his share price. It is just a way of encouraging the player to take responsibility. Sometimes you see teams that have a huge amount of hierarchy.

 "There are chairmen, managing directors, coaches, assistant coaches ... and by the time you get to the players, they feel that they are at the bottom of the pyramid."



 One of the themes of South Africa's successful year has been its watertight shot selection. Time and again, its opponents have gone down with all guns blazing, only to see Graeme Smith and his men occupy the crease for session after session.

 According to Snape, this discipline comes from mental preparation. He says that too many teams spend long hours working on the details of technique when 80 per cent of the game is played in the mind.



 "In cricket we normally look at the highlights, which start as the bowler is halfway through his run-up and finish when the batsman plays a shot," he says.

 "What is more important for me is the lowlights: the five seconds before the delivery is bowled. It's the thinking in the intervals between deliveries that counts.



 "If that thinking is out of kilter you can have the best technique in the world, and it won't help.

 "If your strategy is wrong, if you've allowed the last ball or the last phase of play to contaminate your next shot, you've lost before you've started. And yet most players focus on techniques to make the highlights better."



 Snape's concentration drills may be frowned upon by old-school players, but they have clearly helped South Africa. Most teams would have crumbled when facing a fourth-innings target of 413 in Perth, or the likelihood of a huge deficit in Melbourne. Not this one. They got their heads down and fought their way to a pair of historic victories.



 There is plenty of pedigree in their coaching, which is led by Mickey Arthur and also features Duncan Fletcher in a consultancy role. This may explain why the customised fields that Smith set for each Australian batsman had such a flavour of the 2005 Ashes about them.



 There is a lesson here for England, whose tactics have lacked a certain focus this year. If Australia is to be beaten, the coaching staff must come up with a way of muzzling senior players such as Ricky Ponting. They could do worse than to start by asking Snape his advice. - [Daily Telegraph] KARACHI: In a tit-for-tat response, Pakistan on Friday decided to call off its hockey team's tour to India for the four-nation Punjab Gold Cup tournament to be held later this month, citing "security risks for the players" as the reason for the cancellation. 

 The decision, which was expected after India scrapped its cricket team's tour across the border in the wake of the Mumbai terror attacks, will further strain the sporting ties between the two countries. 

 Although Pakistan Hockey Federation was keen to send the national team to India, they left the final decision on the Foreign Office. 



 In view of the mounting tensions between the two nations, Sports Minister Jillani said the government had decided not to send the hockey team to India. 

 "There is a security risk in sending our players to India at this stage because of the mood in India. So we have not given permission to the PHF for the tour," he said. 



 Interestingly, Jillani's announcement came after the organisers of the tournament had already named New Zealand as Pakistan's replacement in the double-leg event that also features Beijing Olympic gold medallist Germany, the Netherlands and host India. 

 Pakistan's particpation in the tournament, to be held in Chandigarh from January 31, had come under cloud after Indian government cancelled the cricket team's tour to the strife torn nation. 



 There was popular sentiment among citizens and former players that since Indian government refused to send their cricket team, Pakistani teams should also scrap their India tours in a retaliatory move. 

 [PTI]  ISLAMABAD, (AFP) - Pakistan refused to clear its national junior squash team on Friday to travel to India for the Asian Junior championship amid heightened tension between the two countries.

 Pakistan's sports minister Pir Aftab Shah Jilani cited security issues for barring both the junior squash team and national senior hockey team's travel to India.

 "We sought advice from the external ministry and took the decsion that it's not advisable to send the teams to India over security fears," Jilani said.

 Pakistan squash team was due to defend its team and individual titles in the championships to be held in Chennai from 16-23.

 The hockey team was due to compete in the double-leg tournament in Chandigarh from January 31-February 9.

 Anticipating the decision, India had already replaced Pakistan with New Zealand. Germany, the Netherlands and hosts India are the other teams taking part.

 Since the Mumbai attacks in November, relations between the south Asian rivals have taken a dip. 

 New Delhi refused to send its cricket team to Pakistan and the January-February series was cancelled.

 Jilani said if situation improved ties may be revived.

 "Once we have normalcy in the situation between the two countries, we can have a review of our participation in the sporting events in India," said Jilani.

 Pakistan and India also broke off sporting ties in the wake of terror' attacks on the Indian parliament in 2001. 

 India lifted the ban in October 2003, paving way for Indian cricket team's visit to Pakistan a year later. Now, Aussies want Warne as prime minister Australia just can't get enough of Shane Warne as is evident from a recent television poll in which an overwhelming majority wanted the flamboyant spin legend to run for the prime minister's post. 

 Warne, who was doing commentary during the second Test between Australia and South Africa, was joined by current Prime Minister Kevin Rudd in the box when the viewers were asked to vote: "Should Warne run for prime minister?" 

 More than 70 per cent said 'yes', but Warne said, "I've got absolutely no idea how to do it." 

 Rudd sought to help Warne. "Mate, it's all in the wrist action," he said. Warne replied: "OK, well then I might be half a chance if it's all in the wrist." Faced with Warne's massive approval ratings, Rudd laughed, "I haven't been this low for a long time." [Agencies] The much awaited Hisham Abdeen Rugby Football Academy (HARFA) will be officially launched on January 10 (Saturday) at 7.30am at Havelock Park. "We have a very good response from around the globe. Once the soft launching took place where the website of HARFA was also launched, we received hundreds of calls from the Middle East, Australia and Europe. Most of them were friends. They were very keen in enrolling their children and nephews to the academy in Sri Lanka. The start looks very encouraging," said Abdeen speaking to The Nation.



 Moreover, over 100 applicants have responded even before the soft launching took place on December 17. Abdeen further stated that the HARFA is waiting until the schools reopen on January 5. "We are hoping to give special packages to schools and less privileged players. Our hope is to grant scholarships for a few selected talented players. We are waiting till the schools reopen, to meet some of the school heads and see the possibility of accommodating some talented junior players for the start. If sponsors come forward we will have no problem in granting scholarships for such players," he added.

 Inquiries on applications for HARFA could be obtained by calling 0777543772 or 0777311788 or by visiting the website www.harfaonline.org. (MNA) The back-up Ashes keeper shapes as being the next tradition banished to the history books when this year's touring party is cut to as few as 13 players.

 Once a necessity on all Australia tours of any length, he will be a casualty of the light Ashes program and Cricket Australia's reluctance to starve its touring players of cricket. 

 Cricket Australia is considering trimming the Ashes squad to 13-15, summoning up to four extra players from County or League cricket as required. 



 It reasons a traditional squad of 17 players, or even the 16 who travelled in 2005, is too big for a schedule that features just four tour games and five Tests. 

 "Why would you have 15 or 16 there when they're just going to be carrying bags or sitting watching the blokes in the nets?" a Cricket Australia source said. 



 A decision on the squad's size is not expected before the end of the month. Thirteen is being given serious consideration but 15 is shaping as the most likely option. 

 Former Test keeper and captain Barry Jarman has urged the selectors to retain a second gloveman in the Ashes party. The veteran of three Ashes tours said the paucity of tour matches is irrelevant, as the second-best keeper might not be in England at the time of an injury to the incumbent. 



 "They should have another keeper, mate," Jarman, 72, said. "If a bloke breaks a finger in the first or second Test, what happens then? (The replacement) might not be the second-best keeper. He might be the third or fourth-best and drop a few." 

 Should Australia opt to go without a second keeper, a gloveman with an English County or League side would be on standby. 

 Jarman, took 560 wickets - including 129 stumped - in his 14-year first-class career. [Agencies]



