NewsThe hitherto unreported LTTE's track record was yesterday unfolded by Health Minister and government's Chief Peace Negotiator Nimal Siripala de Silva when he said in public that the Tigers had killed more civilians from 1984 to 2006 than any other terrorist outfit in the world.



 In a startling revelation the Minister yesterday said the LTTE had exterminated more than 3,000 innocent civilians during this period, while the other terrorist movements together have killed a much smaller number than this in the world.



 Addressing the United People's Freedom Alliance (UPFA) election campaign in Kurunegala yesterday, Minister De Silva, who himself survived a LTTE claymore attack in Jaffna during President Chandrika Kumaratunga's regime, said the LTTE was ranked the world's most ruthless terrorist outfit.

 The Minister made this observation following a study he had made comparing the performances of all the powerful terrorist movements in the world.



 According to him, the LTTE had engaged in terrorist activities more than the other powerful groups like the Hezbullah group operating in Lebanon, Kuwait and Argentina, the Hamas, the Kurkish guerrilla movement and several other dangerous movements operating in Turkey and Palestine.



 Giving out details of attacks carried out by the LTTE, De Silva said yesterday that from November 30, 1984 to September 17, 2006, the LTTE has directly hit 346 civilian targets thereby killing an estimated 3,262 innocent civilians.

 Of this number the minister said 2,252 were Sinhalese, 309 Tamils and 701 Muslims.

 During this period, De Silva pointed out that some 3,494 have also been seriously injured or maimed.

 He further stated that an estimated 50 politicians had also been killed by the LTTE during this time. Of this number, the Minister said 33 were Tamils and 17 Sinhalese.



 He further said the number of houses set on fire by the LTTE was 227. Meanwhile, the Minister's study on several terrorist movements in the world and their activities from 1984 to 2000 was also explained to the public who gathered in Kurunegala yesterday.



 The Minister said during this period, while the LTTE has carried out 168 suicide attacks on various vital installations and individuals in Sri Lanka and India, powerful and dangerous guerrilla movement like the Hezbullah and pro-Syrian groups that operate in Lebanon, Kuwait and Argentina had carried out only 52 suicide attacks.



 He said during the same period, the Hamas had carried only 22 suicide attacks in Israel while the Kurkish guerrilla movement (Kurkishtan Workers' Party) in Turkey had carried out 15 attacks.



 He said the Palestinian – Islamic Jihad (PIJ) movements had carried out during the same period only some eight suicide attacks in Israel. Ports Development and Aviation Minister Chamal Rajapaksa, Petroleum Minister A.H.M. Fowzie, Labour Minister Athauda Seneviratne, North Central Province Chief Minister Berty Premelal Dissanayake were present during the meeting.



