News

 Security forces suspect that the suicide explosion which occurred in front of the Air Force Camp at Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha on Friday evening was originally meant to target Air Force Commander Air Marshal Roshan Goonetilake.



 The Air Force Commander, who attended the special ceremony at the Presidential Secretariat in Fort along with top brass from other services that evening, where President Mahinda Rajapaksa made the official announcement to the nation on the capture of Kilinochchi, left the venue only 10 or 15 minutes before this blast, according to eyewitnesses.



 Instead of returning to the Air Force Headquarters that adjoins the Trans Asia Hotel, sources said the Commander had been driven directly to his home at Bauddhaloka Mawatha High Security Zone. 



 It is now believed that the suicide cadre's handlers would have immediately informed the bomber of the change of direction of Commander Goonetilake's motorcade and there upon he had dashed across the road and blasted himself outside the Air Force Camp and its sports grounds.



 A special Police investigation team is conducting inquiries on a suspect arrested at the blast scene, to investigate whether he had any involvement with the explosion. The suspect was arrested at the crime scene by the Police after he allegedly attempted to flee the area soon after the suicide blast. 



 Highly placed sources told The Nation that the arrested suspect is a resident of Colombo 12 and had arrived at the crime scene on a motorbike. Apparently, the investigations are being carried out to establish a clue received from eyewitnesses that the suicide killer was carrying a helmet in one hand during the time of the, explosion which occurred around 5:15 p.m.



 Three persons were killed and 37 others were injured in the blast. Air Force Spokesman Wing Commander Janaka Nanayakkara said 16 Air Force personnel were among the injured. One Air Force personnel died on the spot while another two succumbed to their injuries on admission to the National Hospital, Colombo. 



 Twenty one civilians who were at the location during the explosion were also injured, as it took place during a time when people were rushing home after work. A bus carrying civilians, which was travelling from Moratuwa to Pettah was severely damaged while minor damages were also caused to another bus, which was travelling from Homagama to Pettah and three motorbikes were also damaged in the explosion.



 Sources said the suicide bomber had attempted to enter the camp through the main gate, but was stopped by the Air Force personnel at the entrance, whereupon the suicide killer had triggered the explosion. Police sources said that the gender of the suicide cadre too is yet to be firmly established, as the reports confirming it have not reached them. 



 Meanwhile, National Hospital Director Dr. Hector Weerasinghe said yesterday that 34 patients are receiving treatment including four patients in the Intensive Care Unit of the Hospital. 

 "Although the immediate number of patients hospitalised due to the incident was 37, it rose to 41 by Friday night as some more patients arrived to receive treatment for some minor injuries," said Dr. Weerasinghe.



 He added that the remaining patients are receiving treatments in their respective wards; mostly in the neurosurgical and ENT sections. 



 K.A.D. Ishan Chaturanga, a resident of Karawanella had been on his way to Pettah with his friend to take a bus to go home when he faced the explosion. "I was on my way home after work from Battaramulla and my friend offered me a ride to Pettah. It was at about 5:10 p.m. and our bike was right in front of the Air Force Headquarters. All of a sudden, I heard a loud blast and everything went dark," he said. He is only suffering from some minor injuries and hoped to go home soon, "But I am really worried about my friend, he is in a serious condition."



 A security forces officer who is receiving treatment said that he was right in front of the Air Force camp when the explosion occurred. "There was a huge traffic jam and none of the vehicles were moving, so some of the passengers started getting off the buses and walking. We saw a short man wearing a dark brown jacket among the crowd, heading towards the entrance of the Headquarters where only the Air Force vehicles were permitted in. I called him and instantly there was a loud blast and that is all I can remember." He said that the next thing he remembers is that he was lying on the hospital bed. 



 P.A. Ruwan Chaminda had been on his way to Kurunegala after visiting his friend in Kollupitiya when he faced the blast. He was not suffering from any major injuries and was waiting for the arrival of his family. "I was thinking of taking the train to Kurunegala and halfway I changed my mind and thought of taking a bus. I went to Pettah and was on board a bus that was on its way to Kurunegala. It was nearly 5:10 p.m. and I did not see anything except I heard a loud blast," he asserted adding that he managed to survive with minor injuries because the bus was some distance away from the location of the explosion.



