Features

 A baby born to a mother living in an urban slum in Sri Lanka will be at a disadvantage during the first few years of its growth that would affect the rest of his life rather than a baby born to a mother from a middle class household just a few streets away.

 Similarly, a girl in Lesotho is likely to live 42 years less than another in Japan while in Sweden, the risk of a woman dying during pregnancy and childbirth is 1 in 17, 400 while in Afghanistan, the odds are 1 in 8. Biology does not explain any of this. Instead, the differences between - and within - countries result from the social environment where people are born, live, grow, work and age. 



 These "social determinants of health" were the focus of a three-year collaborative investigation by an eminent group of policy makers, academics, former heads of state and former ministers of health that comprised the World Health Organization's Commission on Social Determinants of Health (SDH,). This commission was created by the Director General of the WHO with a view to marshal the evidence on what could be done to promote health equity in the world. 



 The commission launched its final report in August 2008 in London, and its key findings and recommendations will be discussed and analyzed by stakeholders and policy makers in different regions of the world in order to foster a global movement that will be activated to work towards closing the inequity gap in a generation. Sri Lanka will be hosting the first of the regional consultations on the Social Determinants of Health from February 18-20, 2009 in Colombo. The Nation spoke to Dr. Sarath. Samarage, Deputy Director General Planning, Ministry of Health and the focal point for the SDH activities in Sri Lanka on the concept of Social Determinants of Health and on what the upcoming regional consultation on SDH plans to achieve. 



 Following are excerpts of the interview:

Q: What is the background for the formation of the commission of Social Determinants of Health?

 A: "The Commission was set up by Dr JW Lee, the former Director-General of WHO in March 2005 to bring together evidence on what can be done to achieve better and more fairly distributed health worldwide, and to promote a global movement to achieve this. It consisted of a global network of policy makers, researchers and civil society organizations that came together to identify the social causes of poor health and avoidable health inequities, and its activities included compiling evidence on successful interventions and formulation of policies that addressed key social determinants, particularly in low-income countries while raising societal debates and advocating for implementation by the member States and also civil society, and global health actors of policies that address social determinants and to define a medium and long-term action agenda for incorporating social determinants of health interventions and approaches into planning, policy, and technical work within the WHO". 



 "The commission had twenty eminent commissioners who were supported by nine areas of knowledge networks that produced their own reports and these areas were on early child development, globalisation, health systems, measurement and evidence, urban settings, employment conditions, social exclusion, priority public health, and women and gender equity. Each knowledge network compiled their own reports and presented them to the commissioners before the final report was released"



 Other than the knowledge networks the commission built evidence-gathering partnerships through two regional Nordic and Asian networks and with separate researchers who studied on additional key areas, such as ageing, indigenous peoples, food and nutrition, violence and conflict, and the environment and along with this it developed partnerships with a number of countries committed to tackling health inequities such as Brazil, Canada, Chile, Iran, Kenya, Mozambique, Sri Lanka, Sweden, and the United Kingdom and they became 'country partners', and made a commitment to progress on the social determinants of health".



 Q: What were the conclusions of the commission and its recommendations?

 A: "The Commission worked on the premise that health inequities are the result of a complex system operating at global, national and local levels. 



 The global context affects how societies prosper through its impact on international relations and domestic norms and policies. These in turn shape the way society, at national and local level, organises its affairs, giving rise to forms of social position and hierarchy. Where a person is in the social hierarchy affects the conditions in which they grow, learn, live, work and age, their vulnerability to ill health and the consequences of ill health. 



 At it's conclusion the commission made three main recommendations of improving daily living conditions, tackling the inequitable distribution of power, money and resources and measuring and understanding the problem and assessing the impact of action".



 Q: How can the recommendations be achieved from a global and national perspective?

 A: "At least 200 million children globally are not achieving their full potential. This has huge implications for their health and for society at large. Investment in early years provides one of the greatest potentials to reduce health inequities. The Commission called for an interagency mechanism to be set up to ensure policy coherence for early child development, a comprehensive package of quality programs for all children, mothers and caregivers, and the provision of quality compulsory primary and secondary education for all children to provide them equity from the start.



 Where we live affects our health and chances of living flourishing lives. Last year we saw, for the first time, the majority of human beings living in urban settings. Almost 1 billion live in slums. The daily conditions in which people live have a strong influence on health equity. Access to quality housing and clean water and sanitation are human rights. As such the commission called for the greater availability of affordable housing by investing in urban slum upgrading including, as a priority, provision of water, sanitation and electricity, healthy and safe behaviors to be promoted equitably, including promotion of physical activity, encouraging healthy eating and reducing violence and crime through good environmental design and regulatory controls, including control of alcohol outlets and sustained investment in rural development, and economic and social policy responses to climate change and other environmental degradation that take into account health equity. 



 Employment and working conditions also have powerful effects on health equity. When these are good, they provide financial security, social status, personal development, social relations and self-esteem, and protection from physical and psychosocial illness. So towards achieving this the commission called for full and fair employment and decent work, to be a central goal of national and international social and economic policy-making, economic and social policies that ensure secure work for men and women with a living wage that takes into account the real and current cost of healthy living, all workers to be protected through international core labour standards and policies; and improved working conditions for all workers.



 Then also everyone needs social protection throughout their lives, as young children, in working life, and in old age. People also need protection in case of specific shocks, such as illness, disability, and loss of income or work. Four out of five people worldwide lack the back-up of basic social security coverage. Extending social protection to all people, within countries and globally, will be a major step towards achieving health equity within a generation. So the commission called for the establishing and strengthening universal comprehensive social protection policies and ensuring social protection systems include those who are in precarious work, including informal work and household or care work.



 Since access to and utilization of health care is vital to good and equitable health, without healthcare, many of the opportunities for fundamental health improvement are lost. Upwards of 100 million people are pushed into poverty each year through catastrophic household health costs. Because of this the commission also called for the healthcare systems to be based on principles of equity, disease prevention, and health promotion with universal coverage, focusing on primary health care, regardless of ability to pay. 



 As activities for the second recommendation of tackling the inequitable distribution of power, money, and resources the commission called for health equity to become a marker of government performance, national capacity for progressive taxation to be built, existing commitments to be honored by increasing global aid to 0.7% of GDP, health equity impact assessments of major global, regional and bilateral economic agreements, strengthening of public sector leadership in the provision of essential health-related goods/services and control of health damaging commodities. It also called for gender equity to be promoted through enforced legislation, a gender equity unit to be created and financed. 



 The commission were also of the opinion that to measure and understand the problem basic data systems, including vital registration and routine monitoring of health inequity and the social determinants of health, should be put in place so that more effective policies, systems and programmes can be developed and education and training for relevant professionals be considered as vital.



 Q: Would implementing the recommendations set out by the commission be possible in the context of the current global economic downtrend?

 A: Yes because even though economic growth raises the incomes in many countries national wealth alone does not necessarily increase national health and without equitable distribution of available benefits, national growth can even exacerbate inequities. 

 While there has been enormous increase in global wealth, technology and living standards in recent years, the key question is how it is used for fair distribution of services and institution-building especially in low-income countries. In 1980, the richest countries with 10% of the population had a gross national income 60 times that of the poorest countries with 10% of the world's population. After 25 years of globalization, this difference increased to 122, reports the Commission. Worse, in the last 15 years, the poorest quintile in many low-income countries has shown a declining share in national consumption. 



 Wealth alone does not have to determine the health of a nation's population. Some low-income countries such as Cuba, Costa Rica, China, state of Kerala in India and even in our country, Sri Lanka we have achieved levels of good health despite relatively low national incomes. But, the Commission points out, wealth can be wisely used. Nordic countries, for example, have followed policies that encouraged equality of benefits and services, full employment, gender equity and low levels of social exclusion. This is an outstanding example of what needs to be done everywhere.



 Q: What is the objective of the regional consultation?

 A: "Reflecting on the importance and relevance of health inequities and social determinants of health, the Ministry of Health, Sri Lanka has come forward to host a high-level regional consultation from 18 to 20 February 2009. This will be a collaborative effort between the WHO Geneva, SEARO, University College London, UK and the Ministry of Health, Sri Lanka. The basic structure of the consultation and some of the operational details of the conference was discussed during the meeting in London in August when the final report was released. This meeting included Prof Sir Micheal Marmot and team from UCL, WHO-Geneva, SEARO and delegates from Sri Lanka. 



 The objectives of the regional consultation are to, explore the recommendations relevant to the region that were made by the Commission and to plan an overall strategy for the region to 'close the gap' in a generation through action on the social determinants of health. Another objective is to try and use case studies from the region and those described by the Commission to identify strategies and policies to narrow the health gaps in the region".



Q: What is the situation of Sri Lanka regarding social determinants of health, and how much do they influence the health indices of the country?

 A: "Sri Lanka has up to now achieved good health at low cost and we have reduced our infant and maternal mortality, and increased our life expectancy while having a relatively low GDP compared to many other countries. The approach was a combination of interventions aimed at social determinants such as female education) support for poorer families such as food subsidies, and expansion of preventive and curative services.



 Our achievements have reached a plateau during the past several years and we continue to have our share of inequities. For example, the IMR of mothers with education is higher than those without. Similarly there are inequities in health status between the Estate sector and Urban areas. Mortality decline was unequal across gender and age groups and mortality decline between 1950s and 1980 were mainly for infants, children and females. Adult male mortality has changed little, though the pattern of cause of death has changed, with a reduction in deaths from communicable disease and a matched increase in mortality from injuries. Though health system factors could contribute to stagnation of our health indices and inequities, there is growing evidence in the literature that social factors need to be addressed. Therefore, Sri Lanka has much to gain by being closely associated with the activities of the CSDH. 



 Social Determinant approach is not alien to the thinking in Sri Lankan society. In the past we have recognized that creating jobs that are secure, and improving conditions of employment will lead to improvements in health. This has been recognized in some countries. It now needs to be more broadly". 



 Q: How can the health of the people of Sri Lanka be further improved, and what recommendations can Sri Lanka adopt?

 A: "Historically Sri Lanka has acted on social determinants to improve well being and they have been policy objectives of successive governments since independence. These were providing food security, universal access to education, increase in employment opportunities and eradicating poverty. The Commission on Social Determinants of Health would, equally, benefit significantly from Sri Lanka's active participation through opportunities to learn about how Sri Lanka maintained positive SDH-oriented policies over a sustained period of time, both with respect to domestic governance and Sri Lanka's relations internationally.



 Policy documents of previous and current governments in Sri Lanka and the Ministry of Health implicitly acknowledge the importance of social determinants and inter-sectoral action in health. For example, the Strategic Framework for Health Development in Sri Lanka 2007-2016 published by the Ministry of Health known as the Health Master Plan 2007, identifies improving health status and reducing inequities as key objectives and the need for stewardship and inter-sectoral action for improving health. 



 Policies stated in the President's manifesto "Mahinda Chinthanaya' describes several social factors to be addressed by the states and society. A few relevant to the social determinants approach are those such as.

 • The First Five Year Program supporting children from birth to 5 years (Early Child Development KN)

 • Promote adequate nutrition for expectant mothers (Early Child Development KN)

 • Improving job security of workers (especially migrant workers and casual workers). 

 • Reducing gender disparities in society through the 'Diriya Kantha' programme and a Women's Charter of Rights (Women and Gender Equity KN)

 • Social security systems for the elders and differently-abled persons (Social Exclusion KN & CSDH Expert Panel on Ageing)

 • Strengthening measures to eradicate poverty through the 'Samurdhi' Relief program (Social Exclusion KN)

 • Promoting home ownership via the 'Jana Sevana' Programme Social Exclusion KN and Urban Settings KN)

 • Improvement of housing (Urban Setting KN)

 • Increasing social networking and civil society participation in development in villages through 'Jana Sabha' (Peoples Councils) (Social Exclusion KN) and,

 • Improving access to high quality education (Social Exclusion KN & Additional Key Issue focus on education and health)

 These areas are also reflected in the Knowledge Networks of the CSDH".



 Q: How can we generate commitment to this process?

 A: "In accordance with the concept of SDH, most of the interventions will lie in sectors outside health. The challenge would be for the health sector to work closely with these sectors in order to narrow health inequities. Therefore Sri Lanka needs a mechanism to coordinate and synergize the work relating to SDH. 



 One option is to have a high-level Commission should be formed as done in Brazil. This could be with representatives from the Ministry of Health, Ministry of Education, Universities, Colombo Municipality Council, Ministry of Labour, Ministry of Social Services, Ministry of Reconstruction and Rehabilitation, Universities, Sri Lanka Institute for Developmental Administration (SLIDA), Department of Census and Statistics, Ministry of Finance, NGOs (e.g. Sarvodaya, MARGA) and the Presidential Secretariat. This Commission will work with the relevant Ministries and UN organizations to develop specific interventions applicable to the key sectors. There is currently a Working Group on SDH formed under the Ministry of Health, which is functioning that could act a secretariat for the Commission. The Commission could play a pivotal role in introducing the concept of Health in All Policies. At least three groups should function under this Commission, these being, one, a group to spearhead changes in state policy that would link with the relevant non-health sectors to initiate or improve public policies. 



 Secondly a movement for advocacy. This should consist of an alliance of civil society groups that would identify issues that are relevant to SDH, and Health in All Policies (HiAP). They could use a combination of communication media such as newspapers, TV, internet and mobile phone technology to increase awareness of the public, political parties and professional groups. Already Ministry of Health has taken steps to develop advocacy materials aimed at target groups and to translate the Executive Summary of the SDH Commission Report.



 Thirdly a research and academic network to facilitate research and training. The University of Colombo has formed a Study Group on SDH. The University conducts a Postgraduate Diploma course on Health Development that reflects on health issues from a broad societal perspective".



