The Sunday Leader OnlineNot even in my wildest dreams  would I have thought that my last few words penned on behalf of 'The Sunday Leader' was to be of our beloved editor-in-chief.

Lasantha was more of a friend and a brother to me than a boss. His self belief and confidence, which he instilled in us from our early days in journalism made most of us what we are today.

When ever trouble cropped up either at work or on a personal note Lasantha was never short of time to be by our side.

Lasantha believed in team work and groomed young blood into the field of journalism.

From our days at No. 65 Ward Place to No. 24, Katukurunduwatta Road the path was never rosy nor sweet.

Yet we had our LEADER 'Lasantha' fighting for the cause of ensuring independent journalism at every possible turn.

Goodbye dear brother for your ever lasting pleasant smile is only a memory.

Thank You Lasantha for standing by us at any cost.

What exactly happened to the Rs. 16 million given by the International Rugby Board (IRB) to the Sri Lanka Rugby Football Union (SLRFU) for "development" purposes in the provinces? Also, what happened to the Rs. 50 million given to the SLRFU in 2007 by President Mahinda Rajapakse for the sole purpose of the development of grounds?

These are just two of the numerous questions asked by clubs, rugby enthusiasts and even administrators of the game.

Not a single club gets any financial assistance from the governing body. You get only one reply from there - "Not a single cent". So, where did the money go? How is it spent? How is it that the Union is in the red for Rs. 15 million?

When The Sunday Leader made inquiries from knowledgeable persons connected with the SLRFU, they said that the Union had spent Rs. 40 odd million last year (2008) including Rs. 11 million of the sponsorship monies. Rs. 385,000/- is spent for administrative purposes alone.

The monies given by President Rajapakse has been put in fixed deposits with an interest of nearly Rs. 6 million a year, but The Sunday Leader understands that the SLRFU has "overspent" Rs. 6 million in the first year.

The IRB grant is œ70,000/- for a year (about Rs. 14.5 million). That's meant for development purposes in the provinces. There are 22 development officers attached to the SLRFU and this money from the IRB should be utilized for the development of the sport in rural areas and the promotion of the game among the schools in these areas.

"This is certainly pilferage of finances. Instead of utilizing these monies for what it was meant for as should have been the case and not for tamasha. How many persons are taken overseas for IRB meetings and what is the final outcome? Do they hold discussion with IRB personnel on these Jaunts spent for by the SLRFU?" Said a highly respected personality in the rugby and financial scenes.

Deputy President of the SLRFU, Asanga Seneviratne, had told The Morning Leader that the Union had spent Rs. 5 million within two months and that it is in deficit of Rs. 15 million. What extravagance and what legacy for Seneviratne to inherit on February 21.

Dynamic all rounder Jeevantha Kulatunga and middle order batsman Roshane Silva scored unbeaten centuries to help Colts CC recover from an early setback to reach 270 for 4 in their first innings on the opening day of their SLC Premier League Tier 'A' tournament match against Ragama CC which began at Havelock Park on Friday.

The pair have so far put on 238 runs for the unfinished fifth wicket after Colts CC had slumped to 32 for 4 at one stage.

Scores: Colts CC: 270 for 4 (J. Kulatunga 130 n., o, R. Silva 109 n. o, K. Weeraratne 2 for 73, D. Gamage 2 for 59) v Ragama CC

Former Sri Lanka opening bowler Nuwan Zoysa snapped up four wickets for 58 to help the defending champions SSC dismiss CCC for 201 runs in their first innings on the opening day of their SLC Premier League Tier A tournament match which began at Maitland Place on Friday.

Scores: CCC: 201 (D. K. Ranaweera 36, N. Randhika 52, S. de Silva 47, N. Zoysa 4 for 58, S. Karunanayake 3 for 41, S. Senanayake 2 for 32) SSC: 12 for no loss

People living in glass houses should not throw stones. Various allegations were made against me by the Interim Committee of Sri Lanka Badminton Association (SLBA) headed by Professor Ranjith de Silva, who even wants Minster of Sports and Public Recreation, Gamini Lokuge, to ban me for life without even an inquiry.

This was the opinion of the previous elected President of the SLBA, Amanda Weerasinghe, who spoke to The Sunday Leader and refuted the allegations made against him.

Regarding the Yonex sponsorship deal, Weerasinghe said that he was in possession of all the documents and that there was "no hanky panky" in these deals.  The Yonex authorities in Singapore are willing to expose these baseless allegations contained in the report of the Interim Committee.

Coming to payments made by the Interim Committee to the Malaysian coach, Weerasinghe said that in March and May, 2008 there were no signatories to the payment vouchers, August had only the signature of Professor de Silva, and June the Treasurer of Head of Section. "This is illegal" said Weerasinghe.

Weerasinghe said that when he took over the Presidency of the SLBA, there was a loss of Rs. 1.7 million over a period of three years, but he managed to increase the revenue by 60 per cent and there was a Rs. 1 million profit in 2007. He was also successful in getting Bank of Ceylon to sponsor the SLBA in 2007 for Rs. 2 million, and asked the question why the Interim Committee did not attempt to get it renewed.

"Professor de Silva went as manager for the Vietnam Open in 2007 and for the first time in the history of the SLBA, three players conceded walk- overs as the manager failed to get the players to court in time. This was a disgrace" said Weerasinghe.

He further said that persons holding office in the World and Asian bodies are paid a yearly allowance, and he split his 50 - 50 to the SLBA and the Schools Association, and also asked the question why the window frames he donated to the SLBA was not installed by the Interim Committee.

Regarding the "inflated" players in Sri Lanka, the world body in a document has stated that it was a matter for the local association to inquire into.

The Media Manager at Sri Lanka Cricket (SLC), Shane Fernando, who is also in the Tour Organising Committee, has been requested to resign immediately, but is sticking to his guns and refusing to budge.

Minister Gamini Lokuge had requested SLC's Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Duleep Mendis, to ask for Fernando's resignation.

The Sunday Leader learns that Fernando since last Monday has been making use of the SLC provided vehicle and fuel on a private jaunt.

Minister Lokuge has now decided to serve a letter on Fernando asking him to resign immediately or face termination.

The annual inter club rugby sevens   will kick off in February, the fist leg will be held at the Nittawela grounds, Kandy on February 7th and 8th and the 2nd leg will played at Longden Place on 28th and lst of March.

The best lot of this sevens will be picked to play in the Hong Kong Sevens which will be held on 27 and  28th of March

Pradeep Liyanage, one of the country's top class center-three-quarter has been appointed skipper of the champion Kandy Sports Club rugger team this season.  Pradeep who learnt his rudiments of rugby at St Anthony's  college, Katugastota under Nihal  Ananda, Mohamed Fazal  and Priyantha Gunaratne, is today a top class ruggerite.  Pradeep has represented the country at fifteens  and sevens, and also led the Sri Lanka Sevens team.

He is undisputedly one of the best Center-three-quarters and rightfuly deserves the captaincy, especially after his brilliant performance for Kandy Sports Club in the last season, he helped in his own way to win the triple.  Pradeep Liyanage speaking to this writer said that Kandy Sports Club has created an unique record, unparalleled in the annals of local rugby, by winning the League and the Knockouts more than the other clubs, under him too it is  going to be the same he said.

Kandy Sports Club's achievements of the last season, they won both Sevens tournament, League and  the knockouts.  It was intelligent rugby, they  played which brought them credit.

A special word should be mentioned  about  Pradeep, the man who stood out best in all  the wins, last season he ran intelligently and beautifully to score many tries.  He was a live wire of the side, along with  play maker Fazil Marija, Sanjeewa Jayasinghe, Saliya Kumara, Radhika Hettiarachchi, Gayan Weeraratne and Sameera Silva all back division guys.   This time much more is expected from Pradeep as the leader, he is a lucky guy to lead a side packed with some of the top national caps in the country. So, now it is up to pradeep  to lead the side from the front  and  get the best  out of the  best players  in the country  with him.

Pradeep is all out to lead a side with talented persons, who are good in studying the game closely and carefully.  He should be a true friend among his teammates. Pradeep has the ability to exploit the hidden talent through encouragement and advice.  So, leading a popular club for the first time could be one of his toughest assignments in the field of rugby

Pradeep's  team   should follow the old rugby style, where rugby is winning possession of the ball by the forwards and scoring with the three-quarters. They must  be able to breach the defence and execute plays such as the dummy pass, scissor  pass, reverse pass, for that there are capable players like Pradeep, Saliya, Marija, Gayan,  Sanjeewa, Sameera, Sheriff.  If not the good work done by the forwards in winning possessions is lost. In order to make use of this,  support play is necessary.

A fine all round performance from Bhanuka Rajapaksa helped Royal College beat Nalanda College outright by 62 runs in their inter school under 19 cricket tournament match concluded at Reid Avenue on Friday.

Scores: Royal: 178 and 136 (B. Rajapaksa 50, K. Perera 33, A. Nanayakkara 3 for 32, N. Karunanayake 4 for 31)

Nalanda: 155 (C. de Silva 45, N. Jayaratne 33, B. Rajapaksa 4 for 31) and 97 (M. Thanthirigoda 5 for 12)

St. Sebastian's College Moratuwa were struggling at 80 for 3 in reply to St. Peter's formidable first innings total of 282 runs on the opening day of their inter school under 19 cricket tournament match which commenced at Bambalapitiya on Friday.

Scores: St. Peter's: 282 (C. Peiris 65, A. Perera 46, V. Perera 38 n.o, S. Ranasuriya 31, N. Perera 29, A. Aponso 5 for 117) St. Sebastian's: 80 for 3 (V. Perera 2 for 4)

Middle order batsman Nishika de Silva hit a fighting half century to help St. Joseph's College reach 227 runs in their first innings on the opening day of their inter school under 19 cricket tournament match against Wesley College which began at Campbell Park on Friday.

Scores: St. Joseph's: 227 (H. Silva 40, S. Weerasinghe 35, N. de Silva 68, R. Tatil 27, S. Jayawardena 5 for 47, D. Berthalomuesz 2 for 43) Wesley: 11 for no loss

Chamal Fonseka snapped up four wickets for 26 to help S. Thomas' College dismiss Isipatana College for a modest 159 runs in their first innings on the opening day of their inter school under 19 cricket tournament match which began at Mount Lavinia on Friday.

Scores: Isipatana: 159 (D. Werapitiya 43, S. Premaratne 25, D. Perera 25, D. Walpita 2 for 41, F. Saleem 2 for 29, C. Fonseka 4 for 26) S. Thomas': 65 for 2 (F. Saleem 23 n.o, R. Nilushan 30 n. o)

Asela Karunaratne captured five wickets for 44 to help Sri Lanka Air Force SC dismiss Singha SC Ambalangoda for 155 runs in their first innings on the opening day of their SLC Premier League Tier 'B'  tournament match which began at Rifle Green on Friday.

Scores: Singha SC: 155 (T. Madanayake 32, S. Vithana 52, M. Ranasinghe 28, A. Karunaratne 5 for 44, S. Madanayake 2 for 24, A. Rizan 2 for 6) Air Force SC: 61 for 3 (A. Eranga 25, N. Liyanage 2 for 20)



