The Sunday Leader Online

 The road to lawlessness: All private bus conductors and drivers were ordered by the Supreme Court to wear uniforms from January 1. However, many private bus conductors and drivers were seen sporting casuals despite the court order. It seems if the government can ignore court directives so can the bus crews. JVP takes to the streets in support of SC The Inland Revenue Department is to probe the investments of the Golden Key depositors to ascertain whether there was 'black money' involved in the transactions. The Sunday Leader learns the Golden Key Company had book deposits over Rs 26 billion at the time the scam carried out by sections of the management was detected. Informed sources said among the depositors were a large number of politicians, sportsmen and businessmen who had invested tens of millions in the credit card scheme which was offering interest in the range of 25% to 30%. Chairman, Ceylinco Group, Lalith Kotelawala has pledged to all depositors their investments will be paid back fully. Kotelawala last week announced he will sell the Seylan Bank shares of the Ceylinco Group and his personal shares in the bank to meet the commitments to the depositors. The Chief Executive Officer, Golden Key Company, Khavan Perera who had according to a statement issued by Kotelawala admitted to the mismanagement of funds is yet to make a public comment on the 'scam' despite widespread allegations levelled against him by the top management of the Ceylinco Group. The Sunday Leader learns the Inland Revenue Department will call for a record of the depositors with Golden Key and investigate whether they have accounted for the millions deposited in their tax returns or even disclosed the investment. Informed sources said apart from a number of politicians including those holding ministerial office, top businessmen and cricket stars, even Buddhist monks including at least one sitting member of Parliament from the JHU had deposited large sums of money with Golden Key. While two fundamental rights petitions have been filed in the Supreme Court asking to immediately cease all arbitrary political appointments to Sri Lankan missions abroad, there is now a rush at the Foreign Ministry to expedite these appointments in anticipation of a court ruling halting such appointments, Foreign Ministry officials charged. The officials charged that the latest to join the list of political appointees is Manoranee Silva, estranged spouse of the Chief Justice.  "Her hurried appointment is believed to have been expedited to ensure that the Chief Justice would not sit on the bench that would rule on the fundamental rights petitions filed by two retired Foreign Service officers. Manoranee Silva is to be made the Deputy High Commissioner for Pretoria, South Africa, a post created in that capital for the first time. "Until now there had been only a handful of Deputy High Commissioners in crucial stations such as New Delhi, Chennai and London. Isuru Balapatabadi, the son of a justice has already been posted to the Netherlands. His fiancee is a daughter of another justice raising concerns over a conflict of interests when these petitions are taken up," these officials charged . Meanwhile, over a dozen career Foreign Service officers have been given postings within the course of last week with immediate effect. This too they allege is in anticipation of a court ruling which might order non career political affiliates to return to the country. By posting these career officers it could be argued that there are no more officers available to replace the political appointees and therefore allow them to remain in their current posts. Interestingly Minister Bogollagama addressing the staff of the Foreign Ministry on the 1st of the year had said that the discipline of the Foreign Service demands that career officers should serve in whichever capital they are posted to without any qualms, the officials also alleged. The editor of The Nation newspaper Lalith Alahakoon has been also given a diplomatic posting, it was alleged. He joins a long list of journalists who have been given postings including Walter Jayawardene in London, Bandula Jayasekara, the Consul General in Toronto and Neville De Silva designated for Bangkok, the officials charged. "This is in addition to Sisira Kothalawala, former DG of Rupavahini, Sunil Sarath Perera, former Chairman of SLBC, Sugeeshwara Senadira of the Government Information Department, Chandrapala Liyanage, former Director of Presidential Media Unit and numerous other loyalists who are already enjoying diplomatic postings," these officials also charged. Informed sources said however that Alahakoon has still not accepted his appointment. "R.K.S Sureshchandra from the BOI is to be posted to one of the most vital stations as the Deputy Permanent Representative to the UN in New York. Although politically appointed, this crucial mission is headed by former Secretary to the Foreign Ministry H.M.G.S. Palihakkara. Sureshchandra is only the latest of a long list of family and friends posted abroad by Minister Rohitha Bogollagama. This astonishing list includes the posting of his brother- in-law, Palitha Ganegama as the Deputy High Commissioner to New Delhi which happens to be where his daughter Dilshani is studying. His Sister-in-Law, Jayathri Ranjani Samarakone has also been appointed Sri Lanka's High Commissioner to Singapore where Bogollagama's son Dakshitha is studying. It is widely known that Aminda Rodrigo, the 24 year old son of a business tycoon whose only feasible qualification to be a diplomat is being the intended son-in-law of Bogollagama is posted to the politically vital capital of Washington DC. With the pressure from the new Obama Administration mounting on Sri Lanka on its human rights record and various other issues, young Rodrigo would no doubt rise to the occasion with his ample experience. Aminda Rodrigo is not the only "offspring of the privileged" to be made a diplomat over night. One Oceanie De Silva whose aunt is said to have close  affiliations to even higher levels than Rodrigo is now posted as the Third Secretary to Malaysia. Bandula Athauda, Chameera Ranaweera, Premitha Bandara Tennakoon are a few others with politically powerful family connections, the officials alleged in an e-mail circulated among the Foreign Ministry staff.  The e-mail contains a list of some of the recent political appointments to Sri Lankan missions abroad which are given below. These are in addition to the numerous individuals who have been appointed as Heads of Mission (Ambassadors, High Commissioners, PRUN etc.). All of them the officials allege have been selected based on political affiliations, nepotism and political loyalties. The TMVP will officially announce its stance with regard to the internal rift on January 10, TMVP Spokesperson Azath Moulana last week said while the Karuna faction said there was no move to form a separate party by the former LTTE Eastern Commander. Moulana said that a meeting of the party high rankers was held recently and the issues within the party were discussed. "We will officially release our stance on this whole issue on January 10," Moulana said. Meanwhile, spokesperson for MP Vinayagamurthi Muralitharan alias Karuna Amman, D. Kamalanathan told The Sunday Leader that the party name would remain unchanged. There were reports last week in the media that Karuna Amman would form a separate party following the dispute  between the TMVP and Eastern Province Chief Minister Sivanesathurai Chandrakanthan alias Pillayan. Pillayan, a couple of weeks ago had said there were no such issues within the party and that Karuna had told him that there were no moves to form another party. Kamalanathan said that there were no issues within the party and that there were no reasons for the party to split. "Kamalanathan denied reports that Karuna would form a separate party if the TMVP politburo does not accept his proposal of a name change. "These news items that appeared two weeks ago are baseless and exaggerated. There are no such plans or any need to do that. "There were no rifts within the party at all in the first place. All these reports were exaggerated by those who wanted disharmony within our party and those who were not happy with the party's healthy progress within a short span," Kamalanathan said. In order to urge the Mahinda Rajapakse administration to reduce fuel prices to reflect world prices, and the cost of living (CoL) the joint opposition is to hold a protest campaign at the Lipton Circus on Wednesday, January 7, UNP General Secretary  Tissa Attanayake told The Sunday Leader. The Sri Lanka Muslim Congress (SLMC), Democratic People's Front (DPF) and the SLFP (M) Wing are to join the UNP at the protest while discussions are underway with the New Left Front (NLF) led by Dr. Wickremabahu Karunaratne and Siritunga Jayasuriya to get their participation too at the protest according to Attanayake. "This agitation is for a common cause but not to gain any political mileage. So the UNP expects the people who are undergoing severe difficulties to join the protest to pressurise the government to reduce the fuel prices and also to bring down the CoL," Attanayake said. According to Attanayake all patriotic trade union fronts too are to join the protest. "All the trade unions affiliated to the parties that would take part in the protest will join us to show the might of the joint opposition. What we want the present administration to do was first to heed the Supreme Court (SC) order and then to bring down the CoL. Its more than two weeks since the SC has ordered the Treasury to reduce the petrol prices but so far the government has failed to implement it. The reason for the government's decision not to reduce petrol prices was that if they lose the income that is generated by the sale of petrol, the government would not receive adequate funds to maintain the world's largest cabinet. As a result of maintaining a jumbo cabinet at public expense, the CoL has skyrocketed over the years. That was why the joint opposition is to urge the government to bring down  petrol prices and the CoL immediately and provide relief to the already burdened masses," Attanayake added. The UNP on Friday commended the security forces for the liberation of Killinochchi and called on the government now to pass the benefit to the people by reducing the fuel prices with immediate effect. Opposition Leader Ranil Wickremesinghe said since most of the army personnel use motorcycles as their mode of transport they would welcome a reduction in petrol prices. Wickremesinghe made this statement when he was speaking to the contestants from Kandy, Matale and Nuwara Eliya districts for the Central Provincial Council elections at the Hindu Cultural Centre in Kandy. "The government charged unreasonable rates as taxes from the people by making the war and the soldiers fighting the war  an excuse. Five months ago when a metric tonne of milk powder was sold as US$ 4500, a 400g packet of milk powder was sold at Rs. 275 in the country. But now although  a metric tonne of milk powder has come down to US$ 2000 the government has reduced a packet of milk powder only by Rs. 15. The government can sell a packet of 400g milk powder at Rs. 160 but it is not giving the public that relief.  If the government doesn't give the public this relief we will on behalf of the people stage a protest against the government," Wickremesinghe said. A directive by the Public Service Commission (PSC) to remove 207 health sector employees has irked the health employees, the Health Services Trade Union Alliance (HSTUA) said. Secretary, PSC on December 5, 2008 has instructed Health Ministry Secretary to remove the 207 Health Management Assistants that was recruited in 2006 August and December citing the mode of recruitment was against the service minute of the health management assistant service. According to President HSTUA Saman Rathnapriya although the PSC claims that the recruitment was illegal, the vacancies were Gazetted and the tests were held according to the government rules and regulations. "In August 2006, 20 Health Management Assistants were recruited out of 600 applicants through a test while the balance 187 were recruited out of 33,000 candidates who sat for a written test in December 2006," Rathnapriya told The Sunday Leader. According to the Secretary PSC, the recruitments were made without the PSC approval and also against the service minute of the Health Management Service. "May be the PSC directive is right but still the 207 recruitments were made through a Gazette notification and the selection was  through a test that was conducted under the government rules and regulations. If the PSC claims the procedure was illegal then it was the fault of the Health Ministry officials and not the innocent employees," added Rathnapriya. Blaming the Health Ministry officials for failing to follow the proper recruitment procedure Rathnapriya  said that the PSC should take action against those who were responsible for the mistakes done but should not remove the 207 employees who have been working in the Health ministry for the past two years. "We are strictly against the removal of these 207 health sector employees and are considering legal action if they are removed. As a result the Health Ministry has postponed the decision to remove the Health Management Assistants for the moment," Rathnapriya stated. According to Rathnapriya in the event if the Health Ministry follows the PSC directives stern trade union action would be taken to avert the decision. Private bus owners have questioned the government as to why they are not reducing the train fares after introducing a fuel price reduction recently. The National Transport Commission's (NTC) decision to reduce bus fares by 4% effective from January 6 has caused concern among private bus operators. Speaking to The Sunday Leader President Lanka Private Bus Owners Association Gemunu Wijeratne said the last time the fuel prices were reduced bus operators reduced their fares. "However at that time the train fares were still the same. This is the second time the government has said that bus fares should be reduced because the fuel prices were brought down. Then why is the government making these requests only from private bus operators? Wijeratne said. He added that even though private bus operators are presently running at a loss they willingly reduced bus fares because they were thinking of giving the public some relief. "If we can reduce bus fares despite running at a loss why cannot the government bring down the train fares especially since a larger number of people travel by train," Wijeratne queried. The Ceylon Petroleum Corporation's (CPC) failure to deposit the cheques they received from their dealers on time has deprived the corporation of millions of rupees, the Jathika Sevaka Sangamaya Petroleum Branch (JSSPB) said. The latest loss to the CPC has been calculated at Rs.1.8 million and if this procedure continues any further it would affect the CPC badly, alleged Secretary, JSSPB, Ananda Palitha. According to Palitha although the cheques received from their dealers have to be deposited the following day, with the appointment of the present Deputy Transport Manager (DTM) on political affiliations, this procedure has been violated. "Since the corporation has taken bank overdrafts, the cheques have to be deposited on time if not the CPC has to pay the banks a penalty. The DTM's failure to deposit the cheques amounting to well over Rs.402.6 million on December 26, has cost the CPC Rs.1.8 million," Palitha told The Sunday Leader. According to Palitha, the former Chairman Asantha de Mel based on political affiliation appointed the DTM, and as a result he has not taken action against the DTM for his failure to discharge his duties. "Delaying to deposit the cheques on time was a trick by the DTM as the more he delays the more he gets financial assistance from the dealers. Since the DTM ignored the depositing of the cheques on December 26 all the cheques were deposited on Monday, December 29, three days after the due date," alleged Palitha. "During the former DTM's tenure he was very strict and there were no delays in banking cheques and the corporation did not have to pay the banks any penalty. But since the then Chairman De Mel could not have his way with him, he was removed for no reason and an unqualified person  attached to the fire and safety section was appointed as the DTM despite the employees' agitation," Palitha alleged. Meanwhile Palitha claimed former Chairman De Mel too was behind this racket and said that this was the reason for De Mel not to take action against the DTM for his continuous failure to deposit cheques on time. "The Chairman and the DTM shared the income they received from the dealers but the question that has now arisen is whether the present management too is supporting the DTM to earn money illegally. If not why was disciplinary action not taken against him?" alleged Palitha. All attempts to contact Chairman CPC, A.B. Toradeniya for a comment by The Sunday Leader failed. Trishaw drivers have criticised the government for offering them a petrol reduction on the basis that they fix taxi meters on their vehicles. At a press briefing held on Tuesday (30) the government as part of its relief measures to the public stated that trishaw drivers would be given a reduction of Rs. 20 per litre for four litres of petrol per day up to a maximum of 75 litres per month. The following day the government announced that all trishaws with taxi meters would be able to purchase  petrol at Rs. 20 less.     Speaking to The Sunday Leader President, All Island Three Wheeler Drivers' Welfare Association (AITWDWA), Lalith Dharmasekera said the government's decision to give trishaw drivers a reduction on petrol costs was good if they had a proper plan to implement it. "The government has said they will issue coupons to all trishaw drivers who have taxi meters to purchase petrol at a lesser price. Issuing coupons may cause problems when this programme is implemented, because there could be a delay in the printing of the coupons and the issuing of the coupons. There is bound to be a long queue of trishaw drivers to collect these coupons from the petrol sheds," Dharmasekera said.



