Healing today for a better tomorrow"Care – healing today for a better tomorrow" is a joint venture by the Interact Club of Asian International School and Durdans Hospital organized with the main objective of promoting health and hygiene amongst the underprivileged citizens, and have ventured to hold it in Colombo.

The health camp will take place in the Asian International School premises on January 18, 2009 from 8.30am – 4pm. Medical consultations, medicine and spectacles will be provided free of charge to the needy public throughout the day.

"Care-healing today for a better tomorrow," is the first stage in this community service project. The Interactors of Asian International School will also be working with the Samudradevi Girls School in Nugegoda to help bring up there English based activities such as drama, debating, MUN and Interact etc.

As Interactors we are bound by the concept of "service above self" and are dedicated towards the betterment of the movement, school, community, and the world as a whole. Through this project the Interactors of Asian International School hope to play a role in improving the health conditions of the less privileged residents in and around Colombo.

The executive committee consists of Interact President: Praveen Jayasinghe, Project Chairpersons: Int. Tumal Karunaratne, Int. Kalpa Perera, Project Secretaries: Int. Kanchana Hettiarachchi, Int. Ashini Sumanapala, Project Treasurer: Int. Dinuka Jayasuriya and Project Coordinator: Int. Savanthi Weerakone.



Exploring different genresThere's still more time for Valentine's Day. But, Nemesis is working hard. They've got this brilliant anti-love song that they hope to release sometime in February. Let me give you a clue. Some of you have already heard it. The lyrics by the way are simply awesome. Very meaningful. And so is the music. 

 That's not all either. With plans underway to release a few other songs this year and hopefully an album as well, the boys have a lot in store for their fans. And so we caught up with Nemesis... Originally formed in 2005, the band has gone through many line-up changes over the past three years. Nemesis currently consists of Tharindu 'Mackie' Mathew (22) as the lead guitarist, Mihindu Ariyaratne (20) as the lead vocalist, Loshaarn Bastian (21) as bassist and Sithija Dilshan (18) on drums. Sithija who started drumming a couple of years back after his O/Ls is the latest addition to the band. Of his "discovery," Mackie, the only member from the original line-up says, "We were looking for a drummer and we met this guy at a show." A couple of "meetings" with the band, and Sithija, not surprisingly, said he'll join them permanently. And, this line-up did manage to do well. They were named the winners of TNL Onstage 2008 with Mackie been named the best musician. An interesting aspect of the band is that they refuse to identify themselves with a particular type of music. Instead they explore different genres including rock, progressive metal, blues and acoustic music, thus giving their audience something new and unique. "We don't like to stick to a set genre. Instead, we prefer to explore a lot of different types of music and come up with whatever we feel like," explains Mackie. Referring to another new track, called "Chakithaya," he adds that the band is also experimenting with more local styles, such as including Sinhala lyrics and tunes. All members have their individual styles and influences ranging from instrumental guitar to power metal and rock bands, says Loshaarn, adding that he loves listening to all types of music, particularly Metallica. Loshaarn, who started playing guitar rather late says, "I met Mackie mid 2006. It is only after I joined Nemesis that I took to playing my guitar very seriously." Some of the songs performed by Nemesis in the recent past include "Fade to Black" by Metallica, "Nadee Ganga" by Chithral Somapala, "I am the Highway" by Audioslave, as well as their originals, "Chakithaya" and "Half Cocked." The band is currently in the process of recording a few tracks, which they hope to gradually release during the course of the year. "Being a rock band is not easy. It's not just about the music, there are other aspects you need to consider, such as sound balancing, stage presence and so on. All this comes with experience", Mackie says. Speaking of experience, the boys say, "Onstage helped us gain a lot of experience and gave us the exposure. There was a massive audience and we are fortunate to have performed on the same stage as an international band did". The band believes there's great potential for rock bands and new music in Sri Lanka, especially with more people looking for something new. And, as they say, with a bit of practice, dedication and determination, there's much to achieve. 

 But, all in all, "It's all about us being us." For more details on Nemesis – their songs and performances – visit Nemesis – Facebook group, Myspace.com/nemesistheband or youtube.com/nemesisrockz.



Interaction 2009A former president of the United States of America, Richard Nixon once said, "I don't know anything that builds the will to win, better than competitive sports."

Interaction 2009 is organized by the Interact District 3220 under the avenue of club service in order to inculcate power and friendship among Interactors.

The competition commenced yesterday. Aquatic Interaction, which was held at the Thurstan College Pool Complex, featured numerous swimming events, water polo tournaments, synchronized swimming, obstacle races and many innovative games. This was much fun for the participants and spectators.

The second leg of Interaction is to take place on January 11, at the grounds of St. Peters College, Colombo. This would consist of Cricket 6s, track events and the preliminary rounds of Tag Rugby. The 3rd leg, is also to be held on Sunday January 18 at the same location. Some highlights would be, the continuation of the Cricket 6s, Basketball matches, the finals rounds of Tag Rugby and 'the Quest.'

 The fourth and final day of Interaction is to be held on Sunday, January 25, at Excel World. This would feature indoor games such as pool, laser runner and bowling. An awards ceremony for Interaction 2009 is to take place afterwards.

Interaction 2009 will be innovative, exciting and fun-filled. Join us as we embark onthis amazing journey and enjoy the atmosphere filled with Power, Attitude and Friendship. 





Hilarious twist of fateForty-year-old Bernard Lawrence is a self proclaimed polygamist who enjoys his life immensely.

 "Fiancés," he says, "are much more friendly than wives; and you don't need that many I do very well with three... It's the ideal number — less than three would be monotonous, more than three would be terribly tiring. Three is just perfect." Having devised an ingenious system — dating stewardesses who are assigned to international routes on non-intersecting flight schedules in which he is able to juggle three fiancés in one apartment, and timetables which are adhere to his long suffering housekeeper Bertha, each of them unaware of the other's presence in the apartment. In a hilarious twist of fate, the tables are well and truly turned on the suave playboy when the airlines his fiancés work for, invest in a new state of the art airplane- the super Boeing, which would not only enable them to visit more often, but would also mess up Bernard's carefully plotted schedules and slick juggling of the fiancés. Watch Bernard Lawrence as he finds himself in a very sticky situation in Boeing Boeing — the latest comedy to be produced by Silent Hands Productions and directed by Jehan Bastians and Neidra Williams. A farce written by Marc Camellotti, Boeing Boeing is a French drama translated into English by Beverly Cross. It will take the boards of the Lionel Wendt from January 23-25 at 7.00pm. Seven actors of the Silent Hands crew - Gehan Blok, Niren Neydorff, Charith de Silva, Neidra Williams, Michelle Herft, Celina Cramer and Keshiya Leitch give wing to the next comedy to be presented to the Colombo audience. Having directed many Ray Cooney comedies, the two 'chief silent hands' Jehan and Neidra both look forward to the staging of the drama, having had to face a new set of directional challenges along the way. "In contrast to Ray Cooney's works," says Jehan, "Marc Camellotti's comedies are far more director based, in that there is a lot of scope for different interpretations and for the director to add stage directions and other details which would add value to the performance." "The interaction and on stage chemistry between the actors is coming along nicely,"comments Neidra, adding that there is a great deal of input from the actors themselves - most of whom are experienced comedy actors. The performance also has a treat in store for one lucky member of the audience each night - a free air ticket each to Singapore, Bangkok and Malaysia, sponsored by Classic Travels. Other sponsors include TNL Radio and TNL Lite as electronic media sponsors, and The Daily Mirror and The Sunday Times as print media sponsors. Tickets priced at Rs. 1000/-, 750/-, 650/-, 350/- and 250/- (balcony) will be available at the Lionel Wendt.



