Pro Aircraft Flight Training in the USAPro Aircraft Flight Training located at Hicks Airfield is a one of the few schools that is nationally accredited, privately owned airfield conveniently located within 10 miles North West of Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport, which is one of the busiest airports in the world. Airlines face one of the most severe pilot shortages ever. In fact, thousands of civilian pilots are needed in the next few years to meet the airlines' demands for pilots worldwide. Pilots are expected to face more job growth through the year 2016, especially with major airlines. Opportunities should be better with fast growing regional and low-fare airlines. Pilot job is interesting, exciting and pay very high. Also, pilots often can travel for personal reasons free of charge. Although the number of pilots is expected to grow about as fast as the average for all occupations through the year 2016. Over the past two decades there are 100's Pilot's that have graduated from Pro Aircraft, are now flying for the world's most leading and reputed airlines, such as: American Airlines, American Eagle, British Airways, Continental Airlines, North West, South West, KLM, Singapore Airlines, SriLankan, Emirates, Etihad, Qatar Airways, Alitalia, Royal Nepal Airlines, Shangri-La, Air India, Indian Airlines, Sahara Airlines, Jet Airways, Kingfisher, Maldivian Air Taxis, Trans Maldivian Airways and many more. There are over 30 to 40 pilots presently flying for SriLankan Airlines that graduated from Pro Aircraft Flight Training . One of the pilots is the Second Female First Officer in Sri Lankan Airlines history . 

 Today we live in a world of technology, which aviation plays a vast roll in. From flying Cessna's to Airbus A-380, which are aircraft's flown by SriLankans all over the world. Pro Aircraft Flight Training is authorized under Federal law to enroll nonimmigrant students for flight training courses under part 141 and 61 of the Federal Aviation Regulations. We at Pro Aircraft specialize in professional aviation training, which includes private pilot trough airline transport pilot and all instructor certificates. At Pro Aircraft Flight Training we believe in one of professional aviation's golden rules, "The 5 P's": Proper Planning Prevents Poor Performance. Therefore, we have made sure that after reading through the information on our web site, www.pro-aircraft.com and in these pages will give you sufficient information regarding the flight training industry to make a choice that will best suit you. 

 Fort W worth , Texas is known as the city "Where the West Begins," Fort Worth, Texas embraces its cowboy heritage while moving forward with a revitalized downtown and major cultural attractions. Today, Fort Worth offers so many things to see and do- you could plan an entire vacation around them. Including special events all year long. With a friendly population of half a million people, Fort Worth is consistently ranked among the top places in the nation to work, live, and do business by national magazines like Money, Fortune, and Newsweek. The city is home to major corporations like Lockheed Martin, American Airlines, Bell Helicopter Textron, Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railroad, Pier 1 Imports etc. This is a greater opportunity for all the younger generation to take a step forward and join with the "crew" of Pro Aircraft Flight Training to become a pilot and make a change in their life. Our products are intelligent and safer pilots, since we at Pro Aircraft strictly believe in "Safety first" as a rule. James Eads, CEO of Pro Aircraft Training, is going to be in Colombo for couple of days and he would like to meet Sri Lankan's who are dreaming to become commercial pilots one day. His aviation background and leadership skills contributed to the continual success of Pro Aircraft Flight Training School and many Sri Lankans Pilots, who graduated from his school, highly recommend his prestigious Pro Air Craft Flight Training school. This is the only seminar for year 2009 and meet James at Trans Asia Hotel Colombo on January 10th, at 9.30 am. He will present the best scenarios of how to become a commercial pilot with the training that you can get at Pro Air Craft Flight Training School. If you dream to be an airline pilot one day, and want to learn more about it, then do not miss this golden opportunity to meet with CEO, James Eads face to face at Trans Asia, Colombo.



