Gateway Graduate SchoolGateway, Sri Lanka's leading educational organization, opens new horizons in tertiary education through its Graduate School. Situated in close proximity to Gateway College Rajagiriya, just one hundred yards from the Parliament Road in a salubrious environment with a serene canal flowing on a side, the Campus consists of state-of-the-art facilities for modern teaching, sports and recreation. Gateway Graduate School, in partnership with NCC Education UK, offers a choice of two career pathways to complete BSc (Hons) Degrees in Business Computing and Information Systems or Business Administration here in Sri Lanka. In both Degrees, students are able to receive industrial recognized qualifications - Diplomas and Advanced Diplomas, from NCC Education UK on successful completion of the first and the second years. The BSc (Hons) top-up degrees are delivered online by NCC Education and validated and awarded by the University of Wales. Undergraduates will also have the option of transferring to Universities in UK, USA or Australia at the end of every academic year. BSc (Hons) in Business Computing and Information Systems, delivered online by NCC Education, Validated and Awarded by the University of Wales, equips graduates with the technical and personal skills necessary for taking part in the design, implementation and management of modern computer systems and to provide professionally-minded computer practitioners with the responsibilities and challenges that the computing industry demand. BSc (Hons) in Business Administration , delivered online by NCC Education, Validated and Awarded by the University of Wales, covers the scope of international business through a logical and cohesive progression over a period of three years via the NCC Education International Degree Journey. It includes modules preparing the students for work or postgraduate study in the areas of management, accounting, marketing and finance. On completion of the degree, students will have the knowledge and understanding required at various levels in an international business working environment, as well as the skills required to research, analyse and manage business relationships, or to develop further through postgraduate study. An additional International Foundation Programme is available for students who wish to join after Sri Lankan or London OL. The Foundation Programme will benefit students who wish to continue their studies to degree level and beyond, but who are currently under-qualified both linguistically and in their subject specialization to begin undergraduate studies. The programme in addition to raising students' English level will also provide a firm grounding in Business and Computing along with study skills, personal development and culture. With qualified and experienced staff drawn from the industry, an up-to-date library, multimedia centre etc. the Graduate school promises a new revolution in teaching and learning. A beautiful and a spacious garden with play areas for many sports including Tennis, Basketball, Netball and many others provide the necessary environment for a modern campus. Facilities such as swimming pool, badminton courts, squash courts etc. will be made available to students in the near future. The Governor of the Graduate School is Vidya Jyothi Emeritus Professor Dayantha Wijeyesekera. As a former Vice Chancellor of two esteemed Universities - University of Moratuwa and Open University of Sri Lanka, Professor Wijeyesekera brings in a wealth of experience as a renowned educationist and an institution builder. Through Gateway Graduate School, he wishes to provide Tertiary Education opportunities at affordable costs either entirely in Sri Lanka or partly overseas depending on the choice of parents. Mr. R.I.T.Alles, Chairman Gateway mentions that the organization is delighted to be serving the school leavers through its new Graduate School. When Gateway International School was re-named as Gateway College, the theme and focus was renewed to provide education from 'Foundation to Graduation'. Today, he sees that dream coming true. Further details of the Gateway Graduate School can be obtained from the Registrar by writing to ggs@gatewayworldwide.com or by calling 2888858 or 2877277.



