LIFT GALLERY opens in ColomboLIFT Gallery, the Art of converting creativity in to profitability and a concept launched to encourage fashion entrepreneurships locally and internationally. The New Year begins with many opportunities for LIFT designers. Lanka Institute of Fashion Technology has expanded beyond education. It is important to take the responsibility of promoting the graduating students who wish to become fashion entrepreneurs. During the period of study a student would create the most exciting business plan. But how many can come in to reality. LIFT Gallery will be committed to bring reality to the dreams of young budding designers. The concept of the LIFT Gallery was launched by the Director for studies - Lanka Institute of Fashion Technology, Niroshani Leanage to encourage the graduating students to develop their own design labels and promote their collections. The Gallery has space allocated for these young designers to promote their collections and experience being in the real working environment in a design studio to market their collections. It creates opportunities for the young designers to meet their clients. The promotion of each individual designer is carefully planned and timed according to market requirements. The space to promote each collection that is selected is been given without any cost for the designer where the designer gets the encouragement and a zero overhead cost to promote his/her collection for a given time period. This is the first time a concept of this nature is launched in Sri Lanka within the fashion industry and LIFT is proud to announce it and look forward to bring many more new ventures in the time to come. ''Education should not only be a business, I believe that an educator is responsible in moulding the future of students. Being in the fashion education industry for over 10 years and with my personal experience I know how important it is to gain the right knowledge from the right place and once the learning is completed many designers look forward to gain recognition in the fashion Industry. It is my mission to encourage these young talent and as I did when I took the initiative to begin formal fashion education in Sri lanka in the year 2000 , I continue to offer this service through various ventures like the concept of the LIFT Gallery ,to see Sri Lankan fashion industry grow with local talent." Niroshani Leanage said. The LIFT Gallery offers both products and services. Designer wear by LIFT Designers are available for sale. The creativity is been converted to profitability for young fashion design entrepreneurs to initiate their brands under professional guidance. The designers at the Gallery offers advice on design and style directions for the collections to create the total look for the garments that the clients purchase. The Gallery also provides design ideas and development of collections for buyers and the garment industry. 

 LIFT Gallery is another step forward that Lanka Institute of Fashion Technology has taken in the year 2009. The designers promoted through the gallery have a lot of variety to offer their clients as every month a new concept will be promoted. Another aspect of the gallery is that it encourages local design talent, crafts and textiles. To keep you updated watch out the Sunday Times and Lanka Women magazines to know the latest designers introduced with their concepts and their exclusive collections. Most importantly it is interesting to know how these young talents are nurtured locally to offer products internationally. Lanka Institute of Fashion Technology (LIFT) since its inception in 2000 was focussed to nurture young design talent in the country.

 The identity of the institute which denotes through the logo 

 The colour BLUE - denotes TRUST

 L - denotes the Country

 I - denotes that the institute is within the country

 F - Fashion will be lifted by the country

 T - Technology to be brought from all over the world LIFT will continue to create opportunities for students as it did throughout its existence in the industry. In 2003 LIFT formed its subsidiary - LIFT Overseas Study Placement center and linked with Universities abroad forming pathways for students who wish to continue their further study abroad with advanced entries to undergraduate and postgraduate studies and international scholarships. LIFT offers courses in fashion design which covers the central areas of Fashion Illustration and Visual studies, Textiles, Pattern Making and garment manufacturing technology, Draping, Hand embroidery, printed textiles, design development, costume history, fashion business studies, computer aided design (supported by Lectra) and portfolio development. Students after O/L's or A/L's can apply for full time study and the working individuals can apply for part time study at LIFT. On successful completion of courses students get the opportunity of participating for the LIFT annual fashion show and the fashion exhibition. The institute guides students on employment options after their graduation. The institute has its own unique features and has provided an exclusive environment for fashion studies with design studios, pattern cutting and manufacturing labs, Textile printing facilities, computer labs and a unique library for fashion & design. To experience it visit 112, New Bullers Road, Colombo -04. (Opp. HSBC) Ph: 2592186 / 507291



