Stepping stone to a Professional course and a worthy DegreeThe Association of Chartered Certified Accountants is the largest and fastest growing accounting body in the world, with 260,000 students and 110,000 members spread out to across 170 countries. With over 100 years of providing accounting and financial qualification, the innovation of ACCA provides various routes to achieve the qualification of Chartered Certified Accountant. The CAT course of ACCA provides the route to enter the professional course to students who have just sat for the O/L. The course equips the student with the technical skills and knowledge for a support role in accountancy. It is a qualification in itself and entitles the student to use the designatory letters CAT. On completing the CAT course the student proceeds with the Professional course and also gains the Hons Degree in Applied Accounting. All these qualifications are collected whilst the student progresses with the G.C.E. A/Level. No other Accounting course offers student this additional benefit. The CAT course is a boon to students hoping to qualify as a globally accepted accountant. With no qualification and no age limit it offers students the gateway to a career for life. The flexibitiy of the CAT course offers students ample choice and options. Students can sit for any number of papers out of the nine needed for completion of course. On passing the first five subjects the student gains entry to part I of ACCA and on passing all nine subjects to part II of ACCA. The course also allows the student to sit either paper based or computer based exam for the first four papers. No other accounting qualification allows such options. As the student progresses with the professional course on passing part II the student has the opportunity to submit the Research and Analysis Project that grants a Degree in Applied Accounting from the Oxford Brookes University-UK. Thus the student gets an academic qualification on the way to obtaining the Professional qualification. Mercury Institute is proud of the achievement of student Fatima Sharmila Ameer Hamza. Joining Mercury after O/Level in year 2004 to do the CAT course she established an excellent record of progress passing all subjects at each examination and also obtaining Sri Lankan Prize in year 2006 for Paper 2.6. In year 2007 she obtained a first class Hons Degree in Applied Accounting from the Oxford Brookes University-UK and in the same year she passed out as an ACCA affiliate. From O/Level while progressing to do A/Level in year 2007, within three years she has made the mark as an outstanding student who has reached the top of her career. Her successful career is an indicator that others too with dedicated application to studies can reach the top. Sharmila attributes her success to the quality tuition provided by the excellent lecture panel of Mercury comprising of much experienced and highly qualified professionals. The result orientated structured program of studies and the individual attention given to each student is the secret of success at Mercury. To begin with CAT and to qualify as a Chartered Certified Accountant and also obtain an Academic Qualification of a Degree is indeed a unique career for the discerning student.



