Achieve the highest status as a marketer!The Certified Professional Marketer (Asia) is a Professional Status conferred by the Asia Marketing Federation (AMF.) which consists of several Asian countries in the region. It is the 21st century postgraduate professional status: "The next century belongs to the Asian Region.

 "This professional Status in Marketing is probably the FIRST PROFESSIONAL STATUS IN MARKETING conferred by a Federation of Professional Marketing Institutes representing most of the Asian Countries.

 "Needs graduate level entry qualification to sit for the Qualifying Examinations. This status is conferred only on those who have successfully completed the Qualifying Examination and have five years experience in marketing in at least one country in the region and who are members of the local association, in this instance Sri Lanka Institute of Marketing(SLIM.) AMF is a member of the World Marketing Association (WMA.) Sri Lanka Institute of Marketing is affiliated to WMA through the AMF. SLIM BUSINESS SCHOOL - WE CREATE PROFESSIONALS

 The SLIM Business School (SBS) which is the education arm of the Sri Lanka Institute of Marketing, the national body of marketers in Sri Lanka is one of the first institutes to conduct coaching for CIM UK examinations and today sets standards in marketing. Joining CIM UK through SBS demonstrates that you are aiming for highest level of achievement in your profession. The qualification is accepted by number of universities and educational institutions worldwide for entry into their MBA programmes. COURSE DURATION

 Three Months (03) for the Qualifying Examination ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA

 Following are the entry qualifications to be eligible to sit for the Qualifying Examination. All applications are subject to review by the CPM Committee of SLIM.

 "Diploma in Marketing - (Sri Lanka)

 "PG Diploma in Marketing - (CIM UK)

 "B.Sc. (Marketing) Special (Sri J) "Degree in Business or equivalent with appropriate Marketing content

 "A recognized postgraduate qualification with appropriate Marketing content

 "Those who hold other professional qualifications but are in Marketing

 "Senior Marketing Managers with over ten years experience in marketing management CPM STATUS

 CPM Status will be conferred on candidates who have successfully completed the qualifying examination and have five years experience in marketing in an Asian country. All applicants should be channeled through SLIM. Facilities

 We take this opportunity to mention some of the facilities that are being offered to CPM students during coaching sessions,

 "Knowledge Centre (Reference Library & Internet browsing facilities )

 On weekdays - 0900 Hrs to 1930 Hrs

 On weekends - 0900 Hrs to 1600 Hrs "Copies of past question papers distributed free of charge at class discussions

 "Guest Lecturers - sharing their experience in specialized subjects

 "Special Question & Answer sessions, discussion of past papers, practical examples, work experiences, imparting of most up-to date information from latest publications.



