MATRIX trusted for BCS, BIT & ACS in Sri LankaMATRIX Institute of Information Technology (Pvt) Ltd., established approximately three years back has now dominated the IT training sector in Sri Lanka through their dedicated training and guidance to the students. The Institution is headed by a well known lecturer in the IT sector namely Mr. Viraj Pinto Jayawardena the Chairman and the Managing Director of the Institution. MATRIX offers several programs ranging from Certificate programs to Degree level qualifications.(www.matrix-edu.com) BCS Professional Examinations

 British Computer Society (BCS) is a professional body in UK which was offered the Royal Charter. The BCS Professional examination is one of the main IT qualification offered by BCS. This has three basic levels which are equivalent to the three years in an academic degree offered by many universities. This examination held twice a year, one in April and one in October. The main advantage is that the total duration to complete the program is approximately two years and the total cost is less than many other foreign degrees offered in Sri Lanka. Further for a student to commence the BCS Professional examination they have to only pay less than 18,000/= Sri Lankan rupees to MATRIX. MATRIX now an accredited partner with East London College (ELC) of UK provides the students an opportunity to continue the final year in UK and further continue with the Masters and even the PhD. in UK. According to the Post Study Work scheme the candidate also has an employment opportunity in UK. MATRIX offers weekday classes for fulltime students and weekend classes for part time students. (Please refer the advert for new classes for 7th intake.) Bachelor of Information Technology (BIT) of the UCSC

 This program offered by University of Colombo School of Computing (UCSC), is another demanding IT qualification in Sri Lanka. This has a very high industrial recognition. The BIT program has six semesters and spans for three academic years. In this, students have to complete over 20 subjects from various disciplines in IT and management. The total fee to complete the program at MATRIX is less than LKR150, 000 with the exam fee. Students can make the payments semester wise and further in installments, where an installment will not be more than LKR10, 000. Further for full time university students MATRIX offers a 50% discount on the course fee. MATRIX is renowned among students for the quality of the lecture panel and further for offering a very affordable course fee. The institution in this sitting has recorded the highest number of student intake for semester 1 and the number is further growing. MATRIX offers all six semesters. MATRTIX will be commencing the FIT classes for students on 5th January 2009 which will enable the students to commence the BIT semester 1 for the 2009 intake. For students who have already completed the selection test or even the FIT can join with some of the vacant batches with MATRIX for the BIT semester 1.



