10 hottest games for 2009The new year is going to be an exciting one for gamers with some ground-breaking games planned to be released throughout the year. Here is a sneak preview into what I believe are the 10 hottest games to come out in the PC, XBOX and PS3 consoles.

An obvious selection for this list, the game play of Halo 3: ODST bears a strong resemblance to previous Halo games. The difference is that the character played will be "Rookie," a UNSC solider and not as the Master Chief. Since this ODST does not possess Master Chief's superhuman abilities and armour, you'll be much more vulnerable to weapons fire, thus suggesting a stealthier shooter. The main objective of the game is to lead the Rookie through the ruins of Mombasa and discover what happened to his missing teammates. The game has obviously been designed to be more tactical, driving the gamer to put more thinking into the play rather than going on a rampage and shooting stuff randomly. Said to be the most graphically polished first person shooting game to date, The Conduit is definitely going to attract more gamers to the Wii console. Developed by High Voltage, it has already won several awards following its first appearance and demonstration at E3 2008. Some of the awards included Best Shooter Game of 2008 (Wii) and Best Graphics Technology of 2008 (Wii). The storyline focuses on an alien invasion of Washington D.C in the near future. The alien race uses the eponymous Conduits, which are portal-like devices, to deploy their forces throughout the city. An organization called the Trust sends Mr. Ford, the character you play into the area to discover the reasons for the attack and a story is unfold. Based on the original Dawn of War that was released back in September 2004, the sequel is set to showcase the series-standard visceral combat, as well as new features such as a non-linear single-player campaign and co-operative multiplayer. This game will definitely push the boundaries of RTS (Real Time Strategy) game playing. A sequel that needs little introduction. A massive hit among the play station fans, God of War 1 and 2 set the standards for role playing, adventure games. In God of War 3, it will continue to break new grounds, by running on full 1080p HD resolution, and there has been some interest expressed in adding a cooperative mode. Having the option of playing Kratos side-kick, will be very cool! Without any doubt, Star Craft has to be one of the best real-time strategy games available today. In the sequel, we will see the return of the three original races although StarCraft 2 is planned as a trilogy of sorts with Terran: Wings of Liberty, Zerg: Heart of the Swarm, and Protoss: Legacy of the Void being released separately. The only downside is having to buy the 3 games separately. But then again, this is Star Craft and it could be worth the money. I expect this to be a highly polished game with an emphasis on addictive multi player. Following the massive hit Call of Duty 4 (better known as COD 4), this is set to be released sometime late 2009. Little is known about this game right now, but definitely one of the hottest games to look out for. MadWorld is a completely uncompromising bloody and violent horror game to change the way you see the Wii. Painted in black and white, like a comic, with a splash of red for the blood, its a game that immediately grabs your attention. And then it refuses to let go by thrilling you with its unbelievable combat moves, such as the ability to throw street signs through enemies' heads or slice them up with your Wii Remote-controlled chainsaw-arm. Very cool ! Gran Turismo (GT) offered the most realistic driving experience in a game. Although the series didn't do that well, GT 5 is hyped to bring back the magic introducing Ferrari into its over 900 cars and also providing online gaming facility for up to 16 players. BBC's popular motor show, Top Gear will also provide with their test track for players to drive on. Gamers, start your engines! PS3 took off to a flying start with Assassin's Creed in 2007. The sequel, is bound to be much better and is rumored to be set in the 1700s during the French Revolution. Developed by Ensemble Studios, Halo Wars is expected to be a mind blowing RTS experience. RTS newcomers will also be relieved to know that Halo Wars will be geared towards intense combat. But the very best part about this game, is the advanced multi player capabilities.



Oh, island in the sun!There are some things I simply don't understand. Like, why is Coco Jumbo still a hit in Sri Lanka? I returned to the island a few weeks ago with a view to spending a tropical Christmas, sparing myself the trouble of having to freeze to death alone in my one-bedroom apartment in England. Over these past few weeks, not only have I enjoyed a whole lot of sunshine in Colombo, I have also been reminded of Sri Lanka's tenacious cultural personality. For instance, it is a well known fact that it is every Sri Lankan Auntie's duty to mercilessly insult a young girl at her earliest convenience about her weight, personal choices and things generally considered well out of public bounds. Such remarks are customarily announced around the dining table in the course of friendly conversation. The element of context is crucial to the proper performance of the aforesaid duty. If not performed at the earliest and most public opportunity humanly conceivable, the conscientious Auntie will have failed to reap the desired effects of her duty. In such cases, she must at least laughingly proclaim the insult of her choice when introducing the said young girl to a complete stranger. At which point, the young girl will wish she was an ailing maggot, descending from a line of ailing maggots, with a guaranteed lifespan of a couple of milliseconds at most. I have to say though, Uncles are not as bad as Aunties. They will cut straight to the chase. "Still no boyfriend?" or my favourite, "How much do you weigh, putha?" Unlike Aunties, Uncles have no idea these questions are taboo. They honestly just want to know why some young girls aren't unbelievably obese and if their lack of fat truly is why they remain single. Sometimes I humour the odd Uncle – allow him to think he's on to some secret when I tell him, all serious-faced, that I certainly am not on a mission to grow a potbelly just out of peer pressure. It is, notably, the solemn duty of every Sri Lankan host to butcher her guests over what they dish out on to their dinner plates. One must make a small mountain on ones plate and eat very slowly in order to get on the right side of the scary host. Having finally consumed the said mountain, one is dragged back to the table for seconds. Failure to create a second mountain is tantamount to spitting in the face of one's grandmother. A deeper insult does not exist in this country. I have learnt this the hard way. If you've recently returned home from abroad, be prepared to make sweeping statements about where you live because the loving Uncle and Aunt will ask tremendously deep questions, such as "How is England?" (or Australia or India...as the case may be) and expect you to blatantly generalise when responding. "England is useless" or "England is the best in the whole world." Always remember that any answer you will ever come up with is always absolutely incorrect, no matter what. That is the trick to the generalisation questions. Always say something meaningless and then graciously agree with the person who proceeds to jump on your back and bite your head off for whatever reason. If one takes such questions too seriously and proceeds to embark on a lengthy discussion on "how" England really is, one might have to experience great regret for years to come. This is also the land in which it is routine procedure to criticise everything while you pass it by on the street. All drivers are terrible – except for the person driving the car you are in. He is perfect and unblemishable. If you feel a little uncomfortable bouncing uncontrollably in the backseat, it is only because the car is a faulty Korean model which does not slow down in time for speed bumps (no matter how hard the driver tries) and of course it is also because the Government has failed to produce perfect roads. You must always stand by the person driving the car you ride. Never – I repeat, NEVER – disagree with them as to who's fault the accident was. No matter how tenacious the cultural personality of Sri Lanka is, one really tends to miss it when one is away. I know I get a little sad when nobody bothers to insult me randomly on the street about what I'm wearing or how my hair looks. And after some time, adherence to road rules just becomes a little mundane and one finds great pleasure in the frenzied West Indian traffic warden, who though very excitable, is still less of a hero than our dear Police Uncle (who we all curse) at the junction in Colombo. There really is no viable solution to the problem of being Sri Lankan. Provided we don't all grow up to be ill-mannered Uncles and Aunties (or cursable traffic wardens), the future of this land (socially speaking) is in tremendously capable hands.



Politics of M.I.AAll Mathangi "Maya" Arulpragasam (better known as M.I.A.), wants to do is shoot you and take your money – or so she says on "Paper Planes"; a chorus of her track that is punctuated with shot gun blasts, and the "ka-chings" of cash registers being popped open. The fact that incredibly catchy "Paper Planes" is now officially in the running for the prestigious 'Record of the Year' at the 2009 Grammys, means that M.I.A will get at least part of her wish – she's heading for the big time and big bucks. However, we may not get to hear what would have no doubt been an interesting acceptance speech – the artiste has said she might not be able to attend the Los Angeles ceremony as she and her fiancée Benjamin Brewer are expecting their first child on the same day, February 8. For long time fans of M.I.A these developments are somewhat disconcerting; while motherhood, mainstream success and M.I.A seem strangely incongruous in the same sentence, there's no doubting that she has finally arrived. M.I.A reacted to the announcement with what I have come to recognize as her own unique syntax, mostly involving a lot of slang, flexible spelling, emphatic capitalisation and a liberal helping of exclamation marks. Her Myspace blog dated December 5, 2008, declares: "Baby + Grammy...is due the same day!!!!, so either way I figured I'll win. but OMG if i get it, I will never diss the Grammys evr again!" It's a rare concession for an artiste who delights in ruffling feathers. In the past, both musically and lyrically, M.I.A has made a point of bucking the system. Her previous album, the Mercury Prize winning 'Arular' courted controversy with content that referenced Sri Lanka's decades' long conflict. In deceptively pretty tracks like "Sunshowers," M.I.A sang about torture, suicide bombers, and widespread prejudice in an unexpectedly compelling British accent: "Quit bending all my Fingo/ Quit beating me like you're a ringo/ You wanna go?/ You wanna win a war?/ Like P.L.O I don't surrendo." Even if you somehow missed the point there, all you need do is follow the headlines: "In my country you get killed if you report anything the government does to you!" she says on her oft-quoted blog, adding, "the first thing I would like to change about Sri Lanka, is freedom of press, Then we can send people in to find out the truth!" And for M.I.A this "truth" appears to be fairly straightforward. She can be rampantly anti-government and on occasion governments have been happy enough to reciprocate – the U.S administration, for instance, very nearly refused to give her a visa to come into the country and record with Timbaland. But that delay transformed M.I.A's approach to making 'Kala' – her second album. Recorded across several continents – India, Trinidad, Liberia, Jamaica, Australia, Japan and the UK – 'Kala' is, in my opinion at least, a worthy successor to 'Arular.' It samples extensively from the traditional dance and folk styles of the countries she visited, including the frenetic beats of soca from Trinidad and the distinctive percussion of South India's urumee melam. On 'Kala' she also finds space for Bollywood rhythms a la A.R Rahman, reggae, hip-hop, dancehall, electro, baila, police sirens, dancehall beats, gun shots, car horns and the occasional squawking chicken. As a result tracks like "Bamboo Banga," "Bird Flu," "Paper Planes" and "Come Around" just can't be relegated to the background. So much so that the album has made it onto several best album of the year lists, including a number one spot on the Rolling Stone Top 50 Albums of 2007. And M.I.A is still singing tough. In an interview with The Observer, London, she is quoted as having said that while 'Arular' was a "masculine" album, 'Kala' "is about my mum and her struggle – how do you work, feed your children, nurture them and give them the power of information?" Of course, much of her notoriety is based on her parentage, but in interviews M.I.A has said that she has "no ties to my dad, I had no communications with him, it didn't shape who I am or anything like that, I'm actually a product of my mom...you don't really get to choose where you're born and who you're born to." In the end, you've got to give M.I.A points for sheer style, and for creating the kind of music that inspires near obsessive listening. But for Sri Lankans, in particular, whether or not we can separate that from her inflammatory politics is yet to be seen. Background: M.I.A's father Arul Pragasam was a supporter of Tamil militancy in Sri Lanka, and a founding member of The Eelam Revolutionary Organisation of Students (EROS.) M.I.A lived in Sri Lanka briefly as a very young child. Due to the conflict surrounding her father's politics, the family moved around a lot during the first few years of her life, at one point taking refuge in India. Contact with her father was strictly limited, as he was in hiding. Eventually she, her mother Kala and her two siblings fled to Britain. She speaks English and the Tamil fluently Stage Name: M.I.A. stands for both Missing in Acton and Missing in Action. M.I.A is also: a graphic designer with a degree in Fine Art, Film and Video; photographer; documentary film maker and owner of her own brand of clothing.



Entertainment with a splashThe Little Mermaid will be exchanging the ocean for the Visakha swimming pool this January. The school's reputed water ballet and dance teams intend to become partners in the telling of Ariel's story. Using music from Disney's animated film, and accompanied by dancers, the Visakha girls have adapted the script to suit a water ballet – the first to be staged in their beautiful new swimming pool. And expect to find a number of them in it – the sizable cast includes nearly 50 students, 30 of whom will be in the water. For Rovini Illukkumbura, the number of performers has turned this into a trial by fire. The Little Mermaid marks the directorial debut of this former student of the Visakha. Having served as captain for the two years before she passed out from school, Rovini is now training her younger protégés in the art of water ballet. Ranging from students in the third grade to those in twelfth grade, she says her charges also possess different levels of skill – some are beginners while others are practically professionals. Deethri Samarajeewa first began studying water ballet 6 years ago. Since then she has travelled extensively, competing in both Hong Kong and Thailand, and participating in both the Asian Games and the Japan Open. The 17-year-old will play the wicked sea witch Ursula. Joining her in the water is Elisha Gomes who plays Ariel, Charya Dharmadasa as Prince Eric, Malveena Jayawardena as Flounder and Limashi Kosgoda as Sebastian. The one thing all of them have in common is that they can hold their breath – for a really long time. As with ballet, water ballet is a demanding art form. Part sport, part dance it requires a strong yet graceful swimmer. While making it look effortless is half the battle, sticking your leg straight up into the air in synchronisation with 30 other people is the rest of it. The process is a beautiful combination of gymnastics, ballet and swimming and demands grace as well as impeccable timing. The girls usually work with counts, but Rovini says this time around they're doing it to the words of the songs. It's a decision that's difficult to argue with. The Little Mermaid has long been acknowledged one of Disney's masterpieces. Songs like "Part of Your World," and "Kiss the Girl" are favourites with both the young and old. But it's "Under the Sea" that is Limashi's favourite. In her role as Sebastian the crab, she will join the other creatures of the ocean in what promises to be an extravaganza of colour and movement. Keep an eye on the dancers and actors outside the pool as well, because they'll be telling parts of the story. Under the direction of Anushka Gunawardena and Hashani Warnapura, nearly 20 students will stay dry and out of the water, but expect the action going on by the poolside to reflect what's happening in the water and vice-versa. The Little Mermaid will be staged on January 9 and 10 at the Visakha Vidyalaya Pool from 7:30pm onwards. Tickets are priced at 500/- and 1000/- and are currently on sale at the Pool Complex. Media sponsors for the event are TNL Radio and The Sunday Times.



Lifting their voices"It may be storming at the Jordan, stand there anyhow. Anyhow, anyhow, anyhow..." A group of young female singers heard this gospel number for the first time last year, when Prof. Mark Wilson, Director of the University of California, Berkeley Gospel Choir, conducted a week long workshop with them, which wound up with a performance at the Wendt. Since then, this tune has seen this choir through many a trying time. Having inspired and encouraged these girls to sing straight from their hearts, Professor Wilson is back together with Soul Sounds, and will uplift local audiences to a higher realm once more! Q: What brings you back to our shores? A: My visit to Sri Lanka for yet another time is primarily inspired by the friendships and relationships that have been shared between the members of Soul Sounds, the Artistic Director, Soundarie David, and the parents and families of the chorus, who have become like family to me. Choral music is a wonderful opportunity not only to blend voices and make wonderful harmony, but also to create harmony and community between people throughout the world. Q: Will it be different from last years' show? A: I think this year's concert will be a little different particularly in the freedom and confidence that Soul Sound has developed in singing gospel songs. Last year's workshop and concert was their first introduction to the style, art and singing of gospel music. It was also my first introduction to the choral group and to Sri Lanka as well. Last years' performance and subsequent performances of gospel music, where they won three Golds at the World Choir Games in Austria, I believe, has made them even more confident about singing freely from the heart, more passionate about singing from the depths of their emotions, and be filled with the message of hope that "Everything will be alright!" Q: What do you think is the most important thing/s when it comes to singing Gospel music? A: For me the most important elements for singing gospel music are singing from one's personal context, communicating the message of struggle and hope. Gospel songs flow from the heart, to hearts, allowing the body, mind and soul to embrace both the suffering felt in the world and the hope.

 This happens best when the music of the gospel artist is not detached from the personal experience of the performer or the message that the artist wants to share with others. Q: What is the best part about working with Soul Sounds? A: I really enjoy Soul Sounds for the hard work, dedication and sincere effort that the young women of this outstanding choral group put into learning new genres of music. Not only is Soul Sounds a talented group of singers, but these young women are also gifted in their ability to learn a new musical art like gospel quickly, but also embrace it and make it their own. Last year I was particularly impressed to see members of the choir teaching each other parts during the breaks, and not depending solely on the director to learn their parts. It's no wonder that their best is heard, appreciated and rewarded at choral festivals and major performances. I also value the respect they give to directors, educators and professors like me. This is something that young adults in the United States could learn so much more about. Q: Who is/ are your biggest inspiration/s and influences? Do you hope to make this an annual event? A: My most recent inspiration has been in the election of President-elect Barack Obama and upon my return to the US I will participate in an interfaith inauguration ceremony happening for him in my hometown of Oakland, California. Without a doubt, Soul Sounds is a group of young people that inspires me. My "daughters" give me reason to smile, to rejoice and to hope that the world will be a better place in which to live. For these reasons, and so many more, this visit to Sri Lanka has to be an annual event! "I first met Professor when I went to California to study in 2007 and it's as a result of our friendship throughout that year that inspired me to invite him to Sri Lanka last year, so the girls could learn the proper art of Gospel singing. And now this year we've invited him again to come pick up where he left off. I'd also like to say thank you to The Cinnamon Grand for always supporting us," said Soundarie David – Music Director of Soul Sounds. A Glorious Quest – Music in the Air, presented by Soul Sounds, directed by Prof. Mark Wilson and accompanied by Soundarie David, Neranjan de Silva and Christo Prins, will be held on January 11, at 7.30pm, at the Lionel Wendt. The choir is artistically directed by Jerome L. De Silva. Tickets are available at the Wendt.



Wearable artThink art exhibition; but banish from your mind all thoughts of small stuffy rooms and serious looking collectors. Identity 101 is all about accessible art, so accessible in fact that you can actually wear it. In a unique exhibition to be held at Casa Colombo, 101 t-shirts featuring original designs by 13 international artists will be sold. Each is one of a kind, insuring that you're never going to bump into anyone who has one that looks like yours. The exhibition is designed to encourage young artists, many of whom haven't had a chance to exhibit before. Working as graphic designers, photographers, actors and even writers, each of them bring an interesting, fresh perspective to their chosen medium. The exhibition's somewhat unique concept challenges conventional notions of art, both for the creator and the buyer, which is probably why it hasn't been done before in Sri Lanka. In the unlikely event that you're not into it for the comfy designer togs, the organisers are counting on you loving the music. Two of Colombo's stellar young bands – Thriloka and Powercut Circus – will also be playing at the venue. The idea is to drop in, eat, drink, be merry, and hopefully, walk out with a t-shirt you'll love for life. Prices begin at 1500/-, but may vary depending on the intricacy and scope of the design. The venue is also worth a mention. Casa Colombo has been billed as the "hottest Retro Chic Boutique Hotel in Sri Lanka." Housed in a 200-year-old Moorish mansion, the luxurious heritage hotel is definitely worth a visit. Here are a couple of the artists being featured: Lanil Peris is currently studying in Melbourne, Australia. An award winning Art Director, his passion for photography and the fine arts all find expression in his collection. You may know Ruvin de Silva from his role in productions Enda Walsh's Chatroom, Geoffrey Case's Samurai both of which were directed by Tracy Holsinger. Ruvin also works as a freelance graphic designer and has travelled all over the island with his camera. Niyati Upadhya has always expressed herself through the mediums of colour, texture, space and sound. Whether through Indian classical vocal music, tabla, pottery, sculpture, short animation films, or sketching, she has found innovative ways to voice her ideas. She is currently a second year Fine Arts student specialising in sculpture at Rachna Sansad, Mumbai. Sahej Rahal describes himself as an "artist and a producer of culture." He is passionate about exploring as many media as possible, and has experimented with everything from sculpture to sneakers, traditional to digital, film, walls and even dustbins. Harmeet Rahal has been a lifelong fan of the visual arts. Having taught himself how to use imaging software at a very young age, he loves to tinker with programs like cinema 4d and photoshop. Asvajit Boyle is an artist, designer and musician. After a brief stint in advertising, he now works as a freelance layout artist. He also makes music, both with the very popular band Powercut Circus for which he is the guitarist and on as an independent artist. Some of the other participating artists are: Deshan Tennekoon, Kumkum Fernando, Mudith Jayasekera, Udesh Hettiarachchi, Thilini Perera, Mika Tennekoon and Anjana Chetty. Check out Identity 101 on January 10, 2009. The event begins at 4.30pm and ends at 8.30.



