New website on travel tradeLeisure Marketing Services, a web based travel magazine has recently introduced a web based accommodation guide on Sri Lankan locations. This is the first time that a comprehensive web based guide on Sri Lanka tourism is been introduced. www.accommodationguidesrilanka.com is the new web address on travel trade of Sri Lanka. A long felt need from a marketing perspective of the hospitality industry of Sri Lanka has been fulfilled with the introduction of the accommodation guide. The trends in tourism have changed over the years with many travellers preferring to search and decide on the places to be visited and where they would like to stay once a destination has been decided on. In this respect a comprehensive accommodation guide will provide the required information for the travellers. Not only foreign tourist, even the domestic traveller will be able to plan their holidays with the information on the accommodation sector been available on the web. The web based guide will be comprehensive, covering hotels, guest houses, holiday bungalows and all types of accommodation outlets. It will also provide the opportunity for service and facility providers to showcase themselves for the benefit of visitors by advertising in the guide. Accommodation outlets will be highlighted under different categories and listed under the respective towns. All information on the outlet will be provided on a standard format with a link to their respective web page. Hotels could publicise their special offers for the benefit of the browsers, who in turn will be potential customers. 'I have been involved with the travel trade for a considerable period of time from a tourism promotion and advertising perspective. The need to promote the destination and the products at a time when the tourism industry is not doing well was felt by most hoteliers. Yet they could not spend much on advertising. Looking at ways of doing it at a low cost the idea of a web based guide was pursued' said Cholitha Daswatte, partner of Leisure Marketing Services. Launched just one month ago, LMS plans to capture 80% of the accommodation outlets in Sri Lanka by the end of 2009. 'Our aim is to make this the best web based accommodation guide on Sri Lanka and hope to improve the contains and format as we go along' said Imasha Fernando, other partner in business.



OTSC Christmas bashOld Thomians' Swimming Club held its annual Christmas Party for the member's children recently at the Club House. Award winning lady magician Trixie conducted the magic show for the kids.

Monthly club night followed the event with popular band 'Opus' in attendance with Chandani Silva. Popular singer Ronnie Leitch came as a special guest star. Brian Thomas compered the show.



After school movie at ACWith a new date and a show time, American Center will screen, a series of mvies under the theme of after school movies during the month of January.

'Hoosiers', 1986 sports film about a small-town Indiana high school basketball team that wins the state championship will be screened on Thursday, Janaury 15 at 2.30 pm at the American Center Colombo, Galle Road, Colombo-3.

An unexpected late-1986 box-office hit, Hoosiers tells the true story of a group of underdogs who become champions. Set in the 1950s, Hoosiers is about a hard-luck, unemployed college basketball coach (Gene Hackman) who gets a chance to coach a small-town Indiana high-school basketball team. Facing resentment from the community and the team itself, Hackman manages to inspire his young athletes, leading them to the state championship with the help of the assistant coach (Dennis Hopper), who happens to be a recovering alcoholic.

It stars Gene Hackman as a new coach with a spotty past, Barbara Hershey, Sheb Wooley, and Dennis Hopper as the basketball-loving town drunkard; a performance that brought Hopper an Oscar nomination.

The movie was written by Angelo Pizzo, who also co-produced the underdog sports movie Rudy, and directed by David Anspaugh, who directed the latter film. The score was composed by Jerry Goldsmith, who was also nominated for an Oscar for Best Music, Original Score.

The film was the choice of the readers of USA Today newspaper as the best sports movie of all time. 

 In 2001, Hoosiers was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant".





Top Hollywood films at MajesticFollowing the successful screening of internationally box office hit "Madagaskar 2- Escape to Africa", a number of top notch Hollywood movies are to be screened at the Majestic cinema, Colombo. 

 Anjelina Jolie's latest movie "Changeling" directed by Clint Eastwood is slated to be screened at the end of January, 2009. Inspired by actual events that occurred in the 1920s-era Los Angeles, "Changeling" tells the story of a woman driven to confront a corrupted LAPD after her abducted son is retrieved and she begins to suspect that the boy returned to her is not the same boy she gave birth to. The year was 1928, and the setting a working-class suburb of Los Angeles. As Christine (Angelina Jolie) said goodbye to her son, Walter, and departed for work, she never anticipated that this was the day her life would be forever changed. Upon returning home, Christine was distressed to discover that Walter was nowhere to be found. Over the course of the following months, the desperate mother would launch a search that would ultimately prove fruitless. Yet just when it seemed that all hope was lost, a nine-year-old boy claiming to be Christine's son seemed to appear out of thin air. Overcome with emotion and uncertain how to face the authorities or the press, Christine invites the child to stay in her home despite knowing without a doubt that he is not her son. As much as Christine would like to accept the fact that her son has been returned to her, she cannot accept the injustice being foisted upon her and continues to challenge the Prohibition-era Los Angeles police force at every turn. As a result, Christine is slandered by the powers that be, and painted as an unfit mother. In this town, a woman who challenges the system is putting her life on the line, and as the situation grows desperate, the only person willing to aid her in her search is the benevolent local activist Reverend Briegleb (John Malkovich) Return of Academy awarded couple Leonardo de Caprio and Kate Winslot, Golden Globe nominated 'Revolutionary Road' will be followed by 'Changeling'. Directed by Sam Mendes, the American/ British film is based on the 1961 novel of the same name by Richard Yates. Set in 1955, the plot focuses on the hopes and aspirations of self-assured Frank and April Wheeler, who forsake life in the city in order to raise their children in the Connecticut suburbs, where they see themselves as very different from their neighbours in the Revolutionary Hill Estates. Shot on location in Beacon Falls, Bethel, Darien, Fairfield, Greenwich, New Canaan, Norwalk, Redding, Shelton, Southport, Stamford, Thomaston and Trumbull, the film marks the first time DiCaprio, Winslet, and Bates who have worked together since the 1997 blockbuster Titanic. A latest released family film, "Hotel for Dogs" is another movie that is scheduled to be released during the 2009 list. "Hotel for Dogs" is the film adaptation of the Lois Duncan novel of the same name about two orphans who take in stray dogs at an empty house. Nancy Drews and Emma Roberts lead a star-filled cast that includes Kyla Pratt, Lisa Kudrow, Kevin Dillon, and Don Cheadle. A pair of orphaned siblings (Roberts and Jake T. Austin) are forced to give up their beloved dog when they move into a foster home. But since they can't stand to live without him, they turn a closed hotel into a home for their dog--and any other strays they can find. 





CEL to showcase top Sinhala showsOnce famed as '5th circuit', well known for screening Sri Lankan arty movies, CEL circuit has a line-up of local cinematic experiences, some of which have already won international recognition. Eagerly awaited by the film lovers, some of them are sure to be box office hits with their artistic presentation, star-studded cast and versatile directions. The New Year line-up will start with 'Dancing Star', which would be followed by Dayaratne Ratagedara's 'Nil Diya Yahana'. A film by Siras's Susara Dhinal, is slated to be screened from the beginning of February. 'Dancing Star' would be followed by veteran actor Sanath Gunatillake's 'Ekamath Eka Rataka' (Once Upon a Time'), a story based on a book. Nirosha Perera, Sanath Gunathilaka, Roshan Ravindra, Chandani Seneviratne, Damitha Abeyratne, Himali Sayurangi, Duminda Weerawardana and others play the key roles in the film. Another much awaited film lined up in the CEA circuit is Chandran Ratnum's "The Road from Elephant Pass" (Alimankada Sita) , a film based on Nihal de Silva's award winning novel under the same title. In this film Suranga Ranawaka will make her entry to cinema opposite Saumya Liyanage. The film revolves around an army officer's routine assignment to pick up a woman informant near Jaffna which turns into a nightmare when the Tigers launch a massive attack in the peninsula targeting the camp at Elephant Pass. The two adversaries are forced to escape together through the rebel-held Wanni and later cross the abandoned Wilpattu National Park on foot. Awarded at International Film Festival of India (IFFI), Prasana Vithanage's 'Akasa Kususm' will be another film scheduled to be screened on the CEL circuit cinemas around the country. Competing at the Dilhi International fiml festival, veteran actress Malani Fonseka was awarded the prestigious Silver Peacock for her performance as a vintage film star and the film is also to be screened at several other international film festivals before its screening here. 'Akasa Kusum had its world premiere at the 13th Pusan International Film Festival (PIFF) in Pusan, South Korea last October. In the film is slated for international screenings at festivals in Palm Springs and Tiburon in the United States, Granada in Spain and the Brisbane International Film Festival in Australia. "Akasa Kusurn" tells the story of faded actress Sandhya Rani (played by Malini Fonseka), who is suddenly thrust into the media spotlight when she is embroiled in a minor scandal. Filmmaker M. Safras' 'Sudu Hansi' starring Arjun Kamalnath, Ameesha Kavindi and Mutu Tharanga and Ananda Wickremasinghe's 'Hadawatha Mal Yayak' are two other films scheduled to be screened within 2009. 





'Castlereigh Family Cottages'Nuwara Eliya District is considered as one of the best locations for both Sri Lankan and foreign travellers. Apart from the traditional attractions like Horton Plains, World' End, Ambewela, Hakkgala and Gregory's Lake, Norton and Dickoya area have become the latest attraction of the District. If anyone asks me what the best tourist location in low land of Nuwara Eliya District, I never hesitate to name Castlereigh Reservoir as one of the most beautiful locations in Dickoya. Apart from its security blanket, it easily hits the top of the list as one of the best tourist attractions in the area. Few resorts have come up around the Castlereigh Reservoir, but 'Castlereigh Family Cottages' is the oldest and the most known place. 'Castlereigh Family Cottages' is a perfect place for vacation to explore the region or simply relax in the garden and to have pleasure in one of the most beautiful places in the Bogawanthalawa Valley of above 3500 feet from the sea level, which is known as the Golden Valley of Tea. 'Castlereigh Family Cottages' started in 1998 with one family cottage in a seventeen acre lush tea plantation by Raju Ashok, who is is the current Managing Partner of the resort. The Cottages are surrounded by the magnificent view of theCastlereigh Reservoir. There are two visitor Cottages and another small cottage for cooking purposes. Each and every visitor cottage has its own wide verandahs for relaxing on cushioned cane chairs, which are facing the Castlereigh Reservoir, a few steps down the valley. Cottage one is a smaller in size and can accommodate six packs. Double room, room with four bunk beds with attached bathroom, one common bathroom, dining area, fire place, sitting room and mini garden are other features of the bungalow. Sixteen guests can be accommodated in Cottage 2, which has three floors- upper floor, ground floor and basement. Upper floor is suitable for group accommodation, which has one double bed and six single beds. Ground floor has two double bedrooms, two single beds and a common bathroom. The basement comprises of one double bed, two single beds and a common bathroom. Bathrooms are made up with rock stones with glass blocks and the entire floor area is made of wood. TV lounge, dining area, ample sitting area and a magnificent view of the reservoir are some of the extra features of the 'Cottage Two'. 'The area is accessible from major cities on mostly good roads. The road from Colombo is good and travels via Avissawella and Hatton taking approximately four hours. Travel time from Kandy is 2 hours and Nuwara Eliya is 1.45 hours' said Ashok. The Resort is centrally located for excursions and adventure tours. Hundred and eighty years old Warleigh Church, Bopaththalawa Farm, Bogawanthalawa Tea Plantation, Devon, St. Clair's , Gartmore water falls and Norton Bridge are some of the nearby attractions. 'Nuwara Eliya, Hakkgala Botanical Gardens, Horton Plains and Word's End are suitable for day excursions' he added. Cycling, white water rafting, bird watching, trekking, hiking and mountain biking are some of the other popular activities. 'If you are a lover of hill climb, a journey around 2.00 am to Dalhousie, which is 40 minutes drive from the resort, you will be sure to catch the sunrise at the summit of Adams Peak. The hardy trekking aficionado, lovers of a good hike and the adventure travellers are all greeted at the summit by the unceasing clanging of a bell' explained Ashok. 'Castlereigh Family Cottages' are always ready to satisfy the guests. We cater according to their choice. There is no strict food serving rule. If the guests want western, Indian, Chinese or Sri Lankan delight, we are ready to prepare according to the requirement. BBQ and other arrangements too are possible' said M. C. Gabriel, the Assistant to Ashok and the head of kitchen. The dining prices range from Rs. 375/- (breakfast), Rs. 750/- 850/- (lunch and dinner). The prices of the Cottages range from Rs. 3500/- to 5000/- (Cottage 1) and Rs. 10,000/- to 12, 000/- for Cottage 2. For more details log on to castlereighcottages.com (051 2223607)





Suresh-D: A DJ with a differenceSuresh de Silva, better known as Suresh-D who brings the Friday morning Show on Gold FM had completed nine years in the entertainment field as a Club DJ and a Radio DJ.

Starting DJ career as a mobile DJ and turning to a Club DJ in year 2000 at Colombo 2000 Club, Galadari, over the years, Suresh established himself as a regular club DJ at the five-star hotel and later joined as a Radio DJ and a Radio Presenter for Gold FM.

Famed as DJ, Suresh started his career as a hotelier at Jetwing group and spoke gratefully of Hiran Cooray, the Chairman of Jetwing Group.

Working as a Marketing Executive, Suresh got into part-time DJing and left the hotel industry to pursue his dream. Having listened to his gifted voice and realising the latent talent while he was performing at Colombo 2000 Club, well known DJ, Captain Sri invited him to join the radio.

With a short break from the local entertainment arena, Suresh went to the States and on his return; he got back to perform as a Radio DJ and a Radio presenter for Gold FM.

At present Suresh works as a part-timer during week days and he hosts the Friday morning show from 6 am to 10 am, Saturday and Sunday night shows from 8pm to 12 mid night.

An old boy of De Mazenod College, Kandana, Suresh today with his busy schedule running his own business in exporting garments to countries like UK and Nigeria while pursuing his career as a Club DJ and a Radio DJ.

He is married to Charitha who supports him in his career and business, Shanaya is their only daughter. 

 Suresh also is grateful to Nilan and Stuart and all his colleagues at Gold FM for their encouragement and support.



Sathis celebrates golden jubileeVeteran actor, filmmaker and teledrama director, Sathischandra Edirisinghe will be felicitated for his service to Sri Lankan art over the last fifty years on January 14 at his home town, Kelaniya.

Organised by 'Nuwana Tharuna Hawula' (Nuwana Youth Organisation), the felicitation 'Sathischandra Prathibhanaya' will start at 3 pm at Sarasavi Studio, Dalugama Kelaniya.

As a grade five student at Dharmaloka College, Kelaniya, Sathischandra showed his talent to act and this led him to render his voice to 'Lamapitiya' in Radio Ceylon in the year 1953.

Later as a student of St. Mary's College, Elpitiya, Sathischandra played a role in Anton Chekhov's 'Proposal' at Inter-school drama competition and was adjudged the Best Actor of the Southern Province.

With his role in John de Silva's play 'Wessanthara', produced by J. D. A. Perera, the talented actor won much recognition as a stage star and this gave him the opportunity to play in the dramas directed by country's leading playwrights like Gunasena Galappathi, Dayananda Gunawardane, Henry Jayasena, Sugathapala de Silva, R.R. Samarakoon, Sunanda Mahendra, Ranjit Dharmakeerthi, S. Karunaratne, Lucien Bulathsinghala and Dhamma Jagoda.

Sathischandra's entry to big screen was in 1966 as a Buddhist priest in Reggie Perera's 'Sadol Kandulu' and this followed a long and award winning journey with nearly 25 films to his credit. And playing a minor role in Dharmasiri Wickramaratne's 'Hima Kathara', Sathischandra won the Best Supporting Actor at the Presidential Awards 1985.

Having succeeded as an actor, Sathischandra turned to filmmaking with 'Matara Aachchi' in 1973. The film was a landmark in the film music as it introduced his own brother Sunil Edirisinghe as a singer, Wally Nanayakkara as lyricist and Victor Ratnayake as a film music director who later made big names in country's music arena.

'Matara Aachchi' was followed by 'Raja Gedara Paraviyo' (1975), 'Sri Madara' (1977), 'Sathara Diganthaya' (1981), 'Adishtanaya' (1982) and 'Wadula' (1984).

Sathischandra is also one of the pioneer actors in Sri Lankan teledrama history. He played in teledrama like 'Ekamawakage Daruwo', 'Tharadevi' and 'Palingu Menike' which were telecast at the early stages of television in the country.

Having succeeded as an actor in stage, mini-screen and silver screen, playwright and filmmaker, Sathischandra later entered as a teledrama director and producer. He produced eleven teledramas of which he directed seven.

Sathischandra was honoured with 'Kala Suri' and conferred with an honorary degree from the University of Kelaniya. 





