Cambridge International qualifications for teachersThe teachers of today need to respond to differentiated learning, be conversant with a wide variety of teaching styles, and adapt to the changes and challenges within the profession.

 The Cambridge qualifications provide professional development to meet these challenges. It provides the framework for continuous professional development and is relevant to teaching and training in a variety of contexts. The Cambridge International Diploma for Teachers is a vehicle for continuing professional development for teachers with experience. This Diploma course is organized into four modules which reflect the key stages of the teaching and learning cycle namely design, practice, assessment and evaluation. 

 The Diploma enables Teachers to demonstrate their ability to plan, manage and evaluate systematically and also to design and teach learning programs using a range of methods. It also helps teachers to develop personal skills that improve their professional practice. The Ladies' College Department of Vocational Studies has been awarded centre recognition by the University of Cambridge International Examinations (CIE), and is the first centre in Sri Lanka to offer this course. The first batch of teachers to follow the Diploma Course commenced their lectures in January 2007 and received their Diplomas from Mr William Bickerdike, Regional Manager, CIE in March 2008. The second batch of teachers commenced the course in March last year and are awaiting their results.

 At the Awards Day 2007, Mr Bickerdike pointed out that teaching methods have changed immensely with time, so teachers need to keep upgrading their skill to keep pace with the changing environment. He said that CIE is the worlds leader in developing modules for teacher training and that this highly respected Cambridge International Diploma for Teachers , help teachers develop skills that will enhance their teaching methods, making them more resourceful and versatile. The Director of the LCDVS, Mrs. Mala Salgado mentioned that CIE provides a template for delivery of the modules and that the Diploma programme is structured by the local panel of resource persons to suit local needs of continuous professional development. Thus she said that a wide input of teaching ideas and professional support is given to the participants of the course. One of the participants when asked for her comments stated that " We have learnt new methods of creativity, we have learnt about students with special needs, how to approach problematic teenagers, how to be sensitive to students, how to deal with change,.. this course is so much more than the four modules set out by Cambridge. It is a learning experience which leaves you yearning for more!" 

(M. Seneviratne)



