Discount petrol only if passengers benefitThree-wheeler operators hoping to enjoy special concessionary rates for petrol may have to first fix meters on their vehicles or obtain coupons, according to Trade Minister Bandula Gunawardena. Under a new scheme, three-wheeler operators are entitled to Rs. 1,500 or a maximum 75 litres of petrol a month at Rs. 20 less than the regular price per litre, the Minister said. The introduction of meters or a coupon system would help ensure that passengers also benefited from the concessionary pricing with lower fares, the Minister said. "Only operators who adopted such measures will receive petrol at a reduced price," he said. S. R. Attygalle, director general of the Department of Fiscal Policy, at the Ministry of Finance and Planning, said discussions were under way with the relevant stakeholders, including the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation, local governing bodies and three-wheeler associations. The proposed coupon scheme, under which three-wheeler drivers or operators would be paid up to Rs. 1,500 per month, will be similar to the Samurdhi card scheme. "We need a practical system," Mr. Attygalle said. "We are presently discussing various issues relating to the scheme, such as where the coupons will be sold, how they will be used, whether only designated petrol stations will be allowed to sell petrol at concessionary rates, and how local bodies can be involved in regulating the process." Lalith Dharmasekera, president of the All Island Three Wheeler Drivers' Welfare Association, doubted the effectiveness of the coupon system. "This is an outdated system," he said. "Coupons have been used for other purposes in the past, but have not proved very effective. There are other, more up-to-date schemes we could adopt, such as opening bank accounts for registered drivers or operators and paying them the Rs. 1,500 that way," he said. Mr. Dharmasekera said the first step would be to register all three-wheeler drivers. "Putting meters on all three-wheelers will ensure that passengers also benefit from the price reduction," he said. "Currently only about 35 three-wheelers operate on a meter system in the Western province."



Media groups reaffirm supportFour major media organisations this week reaffirmed their commitment to the 1998 Colombo Declaration on Media Freedom and Social Responsibility following an international seminar that was held in October last year to re-visit the Charter. The Newspaper Society of Sri Lanka, The Editors' Guild of Sri Lanka, the Free Media Movement and the Sri Lanka Working Journalists Association were the joint signatories to the Colombo Declaration of 1998, the Media Charter upon which the country's publishers, editors, journalists and media activists have based their campaigns for an independent and responsible press in Sri Lanka. UNESCO and several international media associations support the initiative. Some of the highlights of the provisions of the revised Colombo Declaration are to acknowledge the positive developments since 1998. These include the repeal of the criminal defamation laws, the repeal of the 1978 amendments to the Parliamentary (Powers and Privileges) Act of 1953, the appointment of a Parliamentary Select Committee to draft a Contempt of Court Act, and the drafting of a Freedom of Information Bill in 2004, and also, the establishment of the Sri Lanka Press Institute, the Press Complaints Commission of Sri Lanka, and the Sri Lanka College of Journalism. Strength in unity: The revised Colombo Declaration on Media Freedom and Social Responsibility was signed last Wednesday by Ranjit Wijewardene (Newspaper Society), Uvindu Kurukulasuriya (Free Media Movement), Sanath Balasuriya (Sri Lanka Working Journalists Association), and Sinha Ratnatunga (Editors' Guild). Kumar Nadesan, Chairman of the Sri Lanka Press Institute was also present. The revised Colombo Declaration of 2008 also accepted UNESCO's Windhoek Declaration that asserts that the right to a free press as a fundamental right of the people, and recognised the fact that the Sri Lankan Government is a signatory to the Colombo Declaration on Media, Development and Poverty Eradication which includes the promotion of a free, pluralistic and independent media committed to social justice and development. The 2008 Declaration states that the media cannot operate freely under the constant condition of fear, and urged the Government to permit journalists to practise their profession as provided for in the Constitution in safety and security. The signatories call for a Right to Information Act, on the lines of the Freedom of Information Bill approved by Cabinet in 2004 to reflect principles of transparency and open Government. They agree to lobby for a Contempt of Court Act, and to ensure that all regulations made under the Public Security Ordinance (1947) be subject to statutorily stipulated tests of necessity and/or expediency and/or proportionality. Arrests made under emergency law should be made on objective grounds that the arrest is justified in law and not on vague or general suspicion, reasons should be given for the arrest and the person arrested should be brought promptly before the nearest court. The 2008 Declaration calls for exorbitant duties imposed on newsprint imports which act as deterrents to the dissemination of information and education be brought to a zero rate of duty, and urged world newsprint producing cartels to take into consideration the problems faced by newspaper publishers of the smaller countries that are compelled to increase the cover prices of newspapers due to high costs of imported newsprint. The Declaration calls for all State funded and managed broadcasting services in Sri Lanka be converted to publicly-owned bodies devoid of State control, and to recognise new media, especially bloggers. It calls upon the Government to recognise the Internet as an important space for deliberative democracy, and to extend to it, all such policies as would enhance this space for free speech, and to avoid all policies of banning, blocking, or censoring websites without reasonable grounds. It calls upon all journalists to protect their sources and to abide by the Code of Professional Practice (Code of Ethics) of the Editors' Guild, and to co-operate swiftly with the self-regulatory Press Complaints Commission. Publishers have been urged to improve the working conditions and safety conditions for journalists; to recognise the need for raising the professional standards of working journalists.



A millionaire beggar nabbedA fake beggar who had a bank account with a balance of one million rupees and owned a two-storeyed house on the outskirts of Colombo was arrested and produced in courts only to be set free after paying a meagre fine of Rs.100.

The suspect who claimed to have suffered serious burns on his hands was arrested on suspicion in the City by a Woman Police Constable.

The man told police that his daily take was anything between Rs. 500 and Rs. 1000 and his chief targets were festival crowds in all parts of the country.

Investigations later revealed the suspect had carried out his operations over a period of 30 years and was planning to retire in two years after setting up a grocery for himself.



Rare treat for local whale watchersWhale watchers off the coast of Mirissa had a rare encounter on December 29 with two killer whales while on a whale watching tour.

Killer whales are predominantly found in cold waters and the first photographic record of one in the warm tropical waters off Kalpitiya was made in early March this year. Usually it is the blue whales, hump-backed whales and sperm whales that are seen off the Sri Lankan coast.

This time, Chitral Jayatilake and his crew from Walkers Tours and guests on board including Shiranee Yasaratne of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) spotted the two killer whales 12 miles off shore swimming gracefully southwards. The pair appeared to be a mother and calf.



Suicide bomber's identity still a mysteryAn LTTE attempt to cause mayhem and destruction within the premises of the old Sri Lanka Air Force Headquarters in Slave Island, Colombo was thwarted by two alert airmen who were on sentry duty on Friday afternoon. A suicide bomber who had tried to get past the main gate blew himself up while being checked. The two sentries were also killed in the blast. The scene at Chittampalam Gardiner Mawatha after the suicide bomber blew himself up. Pic. by M.A.Pushpakumara Police said eyewitnesses saw a man crossing the road and rushing towards the gates of the Air Force premises. It appeared that the man was attempting to charge into the complex when he was intercepted by the two sentries. Earlier reports suggested the suicide bomber had arrived on a motorcycle, but it has been confirmed that he had arrived on the scene on foot. Police have not yet identified the man, who had no ID card, mobile phone or other clues to his identity on his person. The bomb blast killed at least three persons and injured 35, including 16 Air Force personnel. At least five of the injured are in critical condition, according to National Hospital director, Dr. Hector Weerasinghe. The suicide attack came barely 20 minutes after the TV broadcast of President Mahinda Rajapaksa's announcement to the nation that Killinochchi, the LTTE's main stronghold in the North, had been captured by the security forces.



New format for TV TimesWe regret that the TV Times, a popular inset given with The Sunday Times, is not being published this week due to production problems related to a redesigning process. The TV Times in a new format will come to you next week with The Sunday Times.

Due to rising production costs beyond our control, we regret that we need to increase the price of The Sunday Times to Rs. 50 from today. We assure you that this largest selling independent English language newspaper will continue to give you a value-added product with fair, accurate and balanced news reports and features.



Petrol bomb thrown at UK Buddhist templeA Buddhist temple in London, in the UK, came under attack from an unidentified group in the early hours of Saturday. According to reports, persons travelling in a vehicle had thrown a petrol bomb at the temple, broken a few windows and driven off.

The Sri Saddhatissa International Buddhist Centre, in Kingsbury, in the London Borough of Brent, has come under similar attack before.

The temple's chief monk, Ven. Galayaye Piyadassi, said he suspected the attack was the work of the LTTE, as the incident occurred ahead of a ceremony to invoke blessings on the Sri Lanka security forces, following Friday's historic capture of Kilinochchi.





Homeopathy Act to be overhauledThe Indigenous Medicine Ministry is to introduce a new Homeopathy Act this year with the aim of bringing to a halt the registration of quacks and controlling the monopolistic nature of the Homeopathic Medical Council. "The Homeopathic Medical Council and some professionals in the field of Homeopathy are having problems. The council is acting in a dictatorial manner and the ministry is hoping to look into it very soon. We have been informed that the council has taken many decisions without consulting the ministry," Minister Tissa Karaliyadde told The Sunday Times. He said it is hoped to draft a new Act as the one passed in 1970 was out-dated and it would be fair by both parties who are in conflict now. The Minister said that what steps should be taken as a result of the cancellation of the controversial examination which led to the crisis has not been decided yet and added a decision would be taken after the ministry looks into it. Two weeks ago a half hour exam was held by the Homeopathic Council for applicants who had not gone through a full time four-year course in a medical college but had been able to obtain a certificate from an official such as a grama niladhari to the effect that the applicant had experience of not less than 10 years. "This is basically a way of earning a lot of money by way of examination fees. The council has introduced some courses not knowing that homeopathy requires much study. Awarding a doctorate for passing a half hour multiple choice exam is not fair by qualified persons," said a senior professional in the homeopathic field. He said that today the council is encouraging registration of quacks with most of the recently registered persons being illegal doctors adding that the majority of practitioners are not qualified and the council itself lacking qualified persons. Denying the allegations Homeopathic Council president Dr. S.D.P. Perera told The Sunday Times that the exams were held only to award temporary registrations and after following a four-year course conducted by a college established by the Homeopathic Council permanent registration would be given to those who passed the exams well. He also denied that the institute awards doctorates and said that the council was hoping to take action against an acupuncture institute that awarded doctorates and had been continuing to award doctorates to many famous personalities. In Sri Lanka only 135 homeopathic practitioners are available and 40 are institutionally qualified and have undergone a four-year full time course in a medical college. Unfortunately full-time courses are not available in Sri Lanka. Therefore students have to obtain the qualification from a medical college in India, Great Britain, France, Pakistan or Germany.



Thousands of Lankans losing foreign jobsMore than 30,000 Sri Lankans employed in the construction sector in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and South Korea are at risk of being laid-off owing to the global recession, a senior Minister warned yesterday. Foreign Employment Minister Keheliya Rambukwella told The Sunday Times yesterday upto 30,000 Sri Lankans employed in the construction sector in the UAE would be affected directly and could end up losing their jobs as the construction industry in that country had been drastically scaled down owing to the global financial crisis. He said a majority of the 18,000 Sri Lankans employed in South Korea might also have their work contracts suspended or cancelled as that country had decided to put on hold recruitment from 15 countries including Sri Lanka. "A highly reputed international financial institution in South Korea had recently terminated the jobs of some 4000 white collar employees including many Sri Lankans though the exact number was not known. This shows that not only labour staff but even those in higher posts might lose their jobs," the minister said. Foreign Employment Bureau chairman Kingsley Ranawaka said the construction industry in the UAE had suffered a body blow and thousands of Sri Lankans might lose their jobs. He pointed out that of the 238,000 Sri Lankans working in the UAE, 102,000 were men with most of them working in the construction industry. He said it was not only labour staff who would be hit but also quantity surveyors, engineers, architects and other professionals. Mr. Ranawaka said many construction projects were at a standstill and that people were unable to get jobs in the UAE and he feared the situation might get worse. He said other West Asian countries also were affected, especially some construction projects in Qatar. 

 Suraj Dandeniya, Former president of the Association of Licensed Foreign Employment Agencies (ALFEA), said the demand for construction sector workers in the UAE and other Gulf countries had drastically dropped and most of the job agencies here would also be affected. S. Rajah, an official of Professional Manpower Recruiting Services Ltd, said that UAE employers and contractors had informed Sri Lanka of a 30 percent reduction in job opportunities and visas were not issued for jobs in some sectors.



Dubai ride launches Mihin LankaState-owned airline Mihin Lanka made its first commercial flight on Thursday, at 6pm. Taking off from Katunayake Bandaranaike International Airport, a Boeing 737-800 aircraft bearing the Mihin Lanka logo headed to Dubai with 136 passengers.

A ceremony was held at the airport to mark the event. The chief guest was Civil Aviation Minister Sarath Kumara Gunarathne. Others present included Mihin Lanka chief executive officer Lal Galgaswatte;

Ministry of Ports and Aviation Secretary T. Hewage; Additional Secretary Ranjith de Silva, and Airport and Aviation Services chairman Prasanna Wickremasuriya.

State owned Mihin Lanka airline commenced its commercial flight to Dubai on New Year's day at 6 p.m. with a Boeing 737-800 aircraft carrying 136 passengers. 

 A ceremony was held at the Bandaranaike International Airport with Civil Aviation Minister Sarath Kumara Gunaratne as the chief guest. Mihin Lanka CEO Lal Galgaswatte, Ports and Aviation Ministry Secretary T. Hewage, Additional Secretary Ranjith de Silva and Airport and Aviation Services vice president Prasanna Wickremasuriya were present at the ceremony. Pic by W.P.Weerawardana.



Kandy governor wants answers from mayorCentral Province Governor Tikiri Kobbekaduwa has reportedly given a two week ultimatum to Kandy Mayor L.B. Aluvihare to respond to 14 questions.

In a letter to the mayor, the governor, among other questions, has asked Mr. Aluvihare how he left the country between April 21 and 23 last year to attend a conference in Ulsath, South Korea without prior permission.

He has also questioned his inability to recover Rs.103.5 million due to the council from a finance company.The governor has also asked why steps have not been taken to rebuild the public library that was destroyed by a fire in 2007.

When contacted the mayor said that he was not aware of any letter and if there was one he would reply.



No new year cheer in JaffnaA single green chillie sells at Rs. three in Jaffna as vegetable prices skyrocketed following the adverse effect of cyclone "nisha " that hit the area during the last week of November.

Some traders purchase vegetables in Colombo and air freight the cargo paying Rs. 250 a kg as freight charges.



EPC to seek Indian aid for developmentThe Eastern Provincial Council which is led by Chief Minister Sivanesathurai Chandrakanthan has sought direct assistance from India for the development of the province, resettlement of displaced persons and for launching a relief programme for an estimated 45,000 widows – most of whom have lost their husbands due to the war. The first round of talks was held this week between an EPC delegation led by Minister M. L. A. M. Hisbullah and Indian High Commission officials in Colombo. The Indian team was led by Deputy High Commissioner Wickram Misri. Mr. Hisbullah told The Sunday Times that the EPC was trying to obtain aid amounting to US $ 200 million to rehabilitate widows. He said that of the 45,000 widows in the province, 33,000 are war widows. He said the High Commission had sought a detailed proposal of the requirements of the Provincial Council. The Indian government has also invited an EPC delegation to visit Gujarat on a study tour of dairy farms, food processing factories and agricultural farms. The Indian government has already donated 22 mini-buses to the Eastern Provincial Council with eight of them for Trincomalee and the rest for Batticaloa and Ampara. The buses are to be used for schools, for resettlement programmes, health and for revenue collection purposes. An additional three trains comprising railway engines and passenger coaches will be donated by the Indian government next week to the Eastern Province to be used by passengers travelling between Batticaloa and Trincomalee. Indian High Commission spokesman Dinkar Asthana said he was aware of the buses being handed over, but was not aware about the details of the meeting held this week. Provincial Council sources said they had launched the campaign to find their own funds as the funds allocated by various donors had not been utilized for the development of the province. The Chief Minister had earlier appealed to the Provincial Council Secretariat for funds, but had failed to get a positive response. The Council had thereafter decided to seek its own funds, mainly from India which had earlier pledged to support the Provincial Council. However, the Council was also seeking funds from the Asian Development Bank, the World Bank, JAICA and the Canadian government for road development, resettlement, the health sector, the education sector and for improving irrigation and canal systems.



Foreign Service officers query rash of political appointmentsOfficials of the Sri Lanka Foreign Service Association (SLFSA) are still pressing for a meeting with President Mahinda Rajapaksa to discuss their concerns relating to political appointees to Sri Lankan missions overseas.

SLFSA officers were to meet with the President early last month, but the meeting did not take place. SLFSA members remained tight-lipped when asked why the scheduled meeting had been cancelled.

 In an exclusive report published last month, The Sunday Times highlighted SLFSA concerns about the growing number of political appointments which, they said, were being made at the expense of career diplomats.

The report mentioned that SLFSA officers would be meeting the President in December. The association has since been informed that the meeting has been re-scheduled for early January.





Rajapaksa talks to Abbas, expresses solidarityPresident Mahinda Rajapaksa made a telephone call to Palestinian Authority President Mahmood Abbas on Friday to express his solidarity with the Palestinian people in the Gaza Strip which has come under continuous Israeli air attack for the past eight days. Palestinian Ambassador Anwer al-Agha said Mr. Abbas in his telephone conversation with Mr. Rajapaksa explained efforts being taken by the Palestinian Authority and the international community to end Israel's bombing campaign which had so far killed more than 430 people and wounded more than 2,500. The Palestinian leader sought Sri Lanka's help in pushing through a UN Security Council resolution calling for an immediate ceasefire, according to the ambassador. President Rajapaksa, a long-time champion of the Palestinian cause, expressed his solidarity with the Palestinian people and assured Sri Lanka would extend its fullest support for international efforts to end the crisis and instruct Sri Lanka's UN envoy accordingly. Earlier, the Government of Sri Lanka issued a statement through its Foreign Ministry, expressing deep concern over the escalating violence in the Gaza Strip. "Sri Lanka calls upon all parties concerned to end the violence to ensure a climate conducive for the re-commencement of negotiations to find a lasting solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. "Sri Lanka has been a constant advocate for the inalienable right of the Palestinian people to establish an independent Palestinian State within secure borders to co-exist in peace with its neighbours," the statement said. It said Sri Lanka called upon the parties to exercise utmost restraint and work towards immediate de-escalation of violence in the Gaza Strip. Observers say the statement has been carefully worded not to cause any strain in Sri Lanka's ties with Israel, which is one of the key suppliers of defence material to Sri Lanka. In contrast, the JVP in a statement slammed Israel for what it called "heinous crimes committed by the Zionists." In a letter addressed to UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon, JVP leader Somawansa Amarasinghe said his party condemned with the utmost hatred the killers of Palestinian people.

 The JVP urged the UN chief to take immediate and meaningful action to stop further killing of Palestinians. "The JVP has no doubt that the Zionist regime in Israel has committed not one but several serious crimes against humanity. Under former Secretaries-Generals, the UN has failed to indict before the International Court in The Hague those Zionists who committed crimes against humanity. It is Your Excellency's responsibility to move a resolution at the Security Council against the Zionist criminals without any delay," Mr. Amarasinghe said.



LTTE to be banned; decision next weekHard on the heels of the successful campaign to re-capture Kilinochchi, the Government is formulating plans to proscribe the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) on grounds that it is a "terrorist" organisation. Government's legal experts are examining whether such a ban should be under the Prevention of Terrorism Act (PTA) or under provisions of the Emergency Regulations. On December 22, President Rajapaksa called on the LTTE to release with the dawn of 2009 all "innocent Tamils it is holding hostage, in bondage and using them as human shields and allow them to come to the safe areas provided for them by the Government and the Security Forces ." He was addressing religious dignitaries, ministers, senior administrators and leading members of the private sector to thank them for the co-operation extended to the government last year. Defence Spokesman and Minister Keheliya Rambukwella said the matter of proscribing the LTTE was likely to come up for discussion at the Cabinet meeting on Wednesday. "We waited for the LTTE to heed our President's appeal. It has not done so. We are coming under heavy public pressure to act," he told The Sunday Times. The LTTE was first banned on January 27, 1998 after it bombed the Sri Dalada Maligawa in Kandy. After the Ceasefire Agreement of February 2002, then Prime Minister, Ranil Wickremesinghe wanted to initiate talks with the LTTE. As a result the ban was lifted on September 5, 2002. It was immediately thereafter that the first round of peace talks were held in a naval base at Sattahip in Thailand.



Diversify investment in Maldives, Nasheed tells businessmenVisiting Maldivian President Mohamed Nasheed who met the business community last evening requested Sri Lankan investors to diversify their portfolios into other areas apart from tourism such as infrastructure, transport and the social sector in the Maldives. "The Maldives is open for business," President Nasheed told the SME sector and members of the Sri Lanka Maldives Bilateral Business Council (SLMBBC) when he met them at two separate events organized by the Federation of Commerce and Industry of Sri Lanka and Ceylon Chamber of Commerce respectively. The Maldivian President said that his country intends to relinquish its ownership of a number of State owned institutions, acquired over the years, to the private sector. President Mohamed Nasheed (R) with Ceylon Chamber of Commerce vice chairman Dr. Anura Ekanayake (C). Also in the picture is the Maldives Minister of Economic Development Mohamed Rasheed (L). Some of the areas identified for privatization are ports, airports, several transport, trading and electricity companies, water and sewerage system in North and South regions, waste management, several hospitals, schools and housing development projects. He invited Sri Lankan investors to explore such areas and others including development of infrastructure facilities and investment in projects relating to the environment. There are already several Sri Lankan investments in the Maldives and a number of bilateral agreements have been signed between the two countries over the years. Areas in which joint ventures have been pursued include air services, cultural and educational cooperation and economic and technological cooperation. Citing a project carried out by the Galle Face Hotel management, he said, "The hotel owners are investing in a hotel in one of the islands in the Maldives where there is an airstrip that also needs to be developed. My question to you is this. Are you interested in the development and management of the airstrip?" However corruption would not be tolerated, he warned. "This is a government that wants openness and transparency. Only thing we cannot tolerate is corruption," he said. Of past claims of corruption and nepotism, the President admitted that some of the contracts have been irregular. "But if we try to untangle this web, we don't know where we will end up. My intention is to move forward," he said. SLMBBC president Jayatissa Kehelpannala said that Sri Lanka would look at strengthening ties with the Maldives through joint ventures in a range of areas. "We hope to look into tourism promotion, education ventures, skills and human resource training and investing in the agricultural sector. In all this we want to explore new methods and techniques. The Council staff has diverse areas of interest and we could work together to create more opportunities," he said. On Friday, the Maldivian President who met President Mahinda Rajapaksa pledged to fully support Sri Lanka in the fight against terrorism. He also expressed his appreciation of the efforts being taken by President Rajapaksa to restore peace in Sri Lanka and thanked the Sri Lankan government for the long standing support extended to the movement of good governance in the Maldives. The two leaders also agreed to arrive at a mutually beneficial solution in relation to the problems faced by Sri Lankan fishermen who have to cross Maldivian territorial waters in sailing to the Arabian Sea. 

 President Nasheed said that he expected assistance from Sri Lanka in areas such as the establishment of a good civil service and added that he looked forward to assistance in carrying out an archaeological survey of the Maldives, the first to be done after 1922 and which was also led by an archaeologist from Sri Lanka.



Crackers go up as Kilinochchi fallsAs the government formally announced the capture of the LTTE-stronghold of Kilinochchi on Friday, celebrations broke out islandwide. In Nuwara Eliya, residents and religious leaders of all faiths gathered in town and set off a 150m long line of fire crackers. They then took to the streets chanting slogans paying tribute to the soldiers. Later everyone gathered at the Post Office where the Maha Sangha invoked blessings on the soldiers.The business community of the town also expressed their loyalty by hoisting the national flag. Meanwhile residents of Anuradhapura gathered in town to light fire crackers with North Central Province (NCP) Chief Minister Berty Premalal Dissanayake and other ministers participating in the main event.

 Celebrations were also held in the Kahatagasdihiliya town in the Anuradhapura district attended by residents from the border villages in the Horowapathana Electorate. Nation Building Minister S. M. Chandrasena and the Kahatagasdiliya Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman Gamini Jayasekara also attended the celebrations. In Colombo too there were celebrations. A manager from a fire works store in Pettah told The Sunday Times that he sold about 5000-6000 fire crackers on Friday following the announcement of the fall of Kilinochchi. M.. G. Punchihewa, a fire cracker vendor along Colombo Street, in Kandy said there were more fire cracker sales on Friday than there was on December 31. He said he ran out of stocks adding that he would stock up more crackers for the capture of Mullaitivu. Firecrackers were also heard throughout the Ampara District and the Digamadulla Young Men's Buddhist Association organised a threewheeler parade to congratulate President Mahinda Rajapaksa and Army Commander Lt. General Sarath Fronseka. Twenty-metre long lines of fire crackers went off in the town while in Uhana, the Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman, Ranjith Ekanayake served 'kiribath' (milkrice) to all those who attended the celebrations in the area. The people there also put up a giant bill board to mark the occasion. Army Commander Lieutenant-General Sarath Fonseka flew to Vavuniya yesterday to discuss ongoing military operations in the Wanni. He was accompanied by senior Army officers. Pictures courtesy of the Sri Lanka Army Defence Secretary Gotabhaya Rajapaksa visited Sri Lanka Air Force bases in Hingurakgoda, China Bay and Katunayake yesterday to express his appreciation of the SLAF's contribution to operations in the Wanni.



CB hotline urged to save depositorsAs concern grew over deposits in many financial institutions, several depositors say the Central Bank (CB) should set up a hot-line to assure the public that their investments are safe and for other information. "For a quick response to our concerns, there is no one," said one anxious investor who called this newspaper. "The companies in which we have placed deposits are not going to tell us the facts even if we ask them. The Central Bank should step in and be available to the public 24 hours a day so that we can find out whether our investments are safe," the depositor, a retired pensioner, said, adding: "Trying complaining to the Central Bank now? It's difficult." Scores of people have been calling the newspaper seeking information on the future of banks, finance companies and other deposit-collecting institutions (not registered with the CB) after the Sakvithi scam and even, more after the Golden Key Credit Card Company crashed. Golden Key is part of the giant Ceylinco Group and the crisis spread to a subsidiary, Seylan Bank where concern over a possible run on deposits led the Central Bank to step in and hand over management to the state-owned Bank of Ceylon (BoC). This week, investors at ABC Credit, another local credit card company run by a former Golden Key manager, were also worried and company officials were due to have a meeting with depositors in the Kandy branch two days ago – on the lines of Ceylinco Group Chairman Lalith Kotelawala's meeting with depositors. Depositors, many of who declined to be named, said even though the Central Bank had no regulations to control non-registered companies, a crisis like Golden Key could spill over to the entire financial sector. "Then the regulator has to step in, like it or not," a corporate executive said, adding that, "it's better to be proactive than reactive in the current context where a crisis is brewing, also because of the global financial crisis.' Last Monday, hundreds of depositors gathered outside the Golden Key's Bambalapitiya head office where officials said they would be notified when refunds would be made. Depositors were told that interest payments had been suspended. The company crashed after a run on its deposits by some depositors fearing a collapse. The CB has in various statements this week assured the public not to panic and transact business as usual with all banks, including Seylan, and registered financial institutions. Meanwhile, Ceylinco Group of Companies chairman Lalith Kotalawala in a statement last night said that as promised the Golden Key Company had begun refunding the deposits from the smallest value upwards. He said the company the Golden Key Company was only one among the Ceylinco Group of Companies and that the value of the security deposits of the Credit Company was not the speculated Rs 26 billion but less than half that amount. "The Ceylinco Group has over its 65-year-old history, faced a bomb threat, riots, a tsunami and many dangers and trials. We have with us our customers who love Ceylinco and have been our clients from generation to generation," Mr. Kotalawala said. He assured that the refunding of the security deposits of the Golden Key Credit Company was being done in such a manner without destabilizing any of the Ceylinco Group companies.



No pre-election police transfersThe National Police Commission (NPC) yesterday said that it would not permit any police transfers in the Central and North Western Province during the upcoming provincial elections after attempts were made to transfer one of the senior police officers in the Central Province.

NPC Chairman Neville Piyandigama said Police Chief Jayantha Wickremaratna had agreed that no transfers would take place during the period of elections.

The Sunday Times learns that attempts were made to get Deputy Inspector General (Central Province) Pujitha Jayasundara to request for a transfer and accordingly get himself transferred out of the province.

 However, Mr. Piyandigama said that even if a police officer made a request he could not be transferred during the election period.

The Sunday Times learns that attempts were also being made to transfer several other police officers in the two provinces after getting them to request transfers on their own will.

JVP MP Anura Kumara Dissanayaka told a public meeting in Kandy on Friday said that attempts were being made to transfer DIG Jayasundara out of the province during the election campaign.



Bomb thrown at MTV station fails to explodeA petrol bomb was hurled into the premises of MTV/MBC Pvt Ltd in Depanama, Pannipitiya on Friday night around 9.30 p.m., Maharagama Police said.

However the home made bomb had not exploded. It is not clear who was behind the attack, Police said. 





Reduce road mishaps by enforcing lawsPedestrians should be urged to abide by road rules and tougher laws should be enforced against drunk drivers so that the increasing number of road/traffic-related accidents is brought down, said Dr. U. P. Ariyawansa, the newly appointed director of the Accident Service of the Colombo National Hospital.

Records show that road/traffic-related accidents have been the highest type of accidents during the New Year celebrations. The number of road/traffic accidents has increased from 212 in 2008 to 249 in 2009. 

 From December 30, 2008 to January 1, 2009, 779 persons have been involved in accidents. 547 of them received treatment at the OPD while 232 were admitted to the wards. Of the total 249 were road/traffic accidents while 149 were home-based accidents.

Five deaths were reported, one due to gunshot injuries with the other four being road accidents. 

 "Drinking is a major contributor of accidents as most accidents have taken place due to persons being under the influence of liquor. These accidents could have been easily avoided," he said.

Dr. Ariyawansa said due to public awareness programmes this year the number of accidents due to lighting crackers has come down.



Claymore mines, weapons found in Matale forestThree claymore mines, each weighting 5.5 kilogrammes, three T56 rifles, a large amount of ammunition and detonator codes were found in the Ratwatte forest area in Matale, last evening, following a tip off, police said.

Police conducted a thorough search of the area, after the discovery.



3 wounded in Pettah blastAt least three people were injured as a bomb planted under a parked jeep exploded last afternoon police said.

The explosion at Bankshall Street, Pettah close to a mosque damaged several vehicles parked in the area as well as some shops.

The incident occurred barely 24 hours after a suspected LTTE suicide bomber blew himself up near the old Air Force headquarters in Colombo, killing three airmen and wounding 36 others.



Govt. ready to welcome IDPsThe Government has drawn up extensive contingency plans ahead of an anticipated large influx of internally displaced people from the conflict zone in the Wanni following the re-capture of Kilinochchi on Friday. As the security forces were poised for an all-out offensive on the remaining un-cleared areas in the Wanni, Essential Services Commissioner S.B. Divaratne said yesterday they were expecting a large number of IDPs to enter the northern town of Vavuniya at any time. "We are ready to face the situation, and plans have been drawn up to provide food, shelter and other facilities that were not available to them in the LTTE- controlled areas," he said. Mr. Divaratne said officials would, if necessary, seek the cooperation of UN aid agencies and INGOs in providing relief but the Government was fully prepared to deal with the situation. He said there was room in the Vavuniya region to accommodate more than 200,000 displaced people and assured them they would have nothing to fear in the Government-controlled areas. The commissioner said the INGOs and NGOs which had a mandate to operate in Vavuniya would be welcome to assist the refugee crisis, and the government for its part would extend the fullest cooperation. So far some 900 IDPs had moved into Vavuniya from the Wanni since November 21 last year, Resettlement Ministry Secretary A. C.M. Razik said. They include 378 families consisting of 537 males and 371 females, he said. They were housed at Menik Farm and Nelukkulam and were being provided with cooked meals and other basic facilities and the state had already spent some Rs. 25 million towards their welfare, he said. The latest group of 41 displaced people arrived in Vavuniya on Friday after the security forces moved into Kilinochchi. Meanwhile, Mullaitivu Divisional Secretariat officials said there were some 221,000 IDPs registered in the area.



Deer frolic at Paththini kovilHerds of deer that live in the shrub jungle adjoining Fort Frederick in Trincomalee have begun to throng Hindu temples within the Fort. Large numbers of animals are seen foraging for food items and fruit which are offered by devotees who attend poojas and other religious festivities. The animals often stay in the temple premises at night mixing freely with children during the day. 

 Deer usually haunt the vicinity of the Pathirakali Amman (Paththini) Kovil along Temple Veediya during the time the procession commemorating the chief deity of Trincomalee Aaladi Pillaiyar Kovil takes to the streets. They eat food thrown by the devotees who have come to watch the procession of the deity returning to his abode after defeating Devil King Gajamuhan (Soora Samharam) at the conclusion of the ten-day "Pillaiyar Kathai" festival.



