BASL to protest against Lasantha killingThe Bar Association of Sri Lanka (BASL) has organized a protest tomorrow at 1 p.m near the gates of the Supreme Courts complex at Hulftsdorp, against the assassination of their colleague Lasantha Wickrematunge, Attorney-at-Law.

The protestors are to proceed to the BASL head office where the association president is to address the gathering and then participate in the funeral of Mr. Wickrematunge.

All concerned lawyers are invited to participate in the protest against the killing of their dear colleague, the BASL said.

Meanwhile issuing a special statement the BASLunreservedly condemned the 'brutal killing' of the Sunday Leader Editor Lasantha Wickramatunge, who was also an Attorney-at-Law and life member of the Association.

"The Bar Association calls upon the Government to take all necessary steps to prevent the recurrence of such acts of brutality and to ensure that all citizens of this country, irrespective of caste, creed and political affiliations have the opportunity to exercise their right to life and liberty without fear, as guaranteed by the Constitution of Sri Lanka," a special statement issued by BASL stated.

The Bar Association expressed concern over the recent threats to the Free Media and in particular the damage caused to the MTV and Sirasa studio complex in Pannipitiya and called upon the relevant authorities to conduct an impartial and expeditious investigation into these incidents and bring the miscreants to justice.



Lankans join Gaza protestTens of thousands of Muslims in Sri Lanka launched a protest on Friday after Jumma prayers with hundreds of left party supporters also joining them.

The protesters called on Israel to halt its military operation in the Gaza Strip where more than 800 Palestinians, inlcuding some 200 children, have been killed in three weeks of Israeli military operation.

The protesters directed their anger not only at Israel, but also at the Arab world as the placard held by this young girl outside Colombo's Devatagaha mosque shows. The poster asked, 'Saudis, are you supporting the Jews?"

Israel claims the military operation was launched to stop Hamas militants firing rockets into Israeli territory. However, Hamas said it was Israel which violated a six-month old ceasefire, by carrying out missile attacks on Hamas targets in Gaza in November.



We are the face of terrorPresident Mahinda Rajapaksa was a friend of Lasantha Wickrematunge. Years ago, when Lasantha took over the news desk at The Sunday Times during the absence of the then News Editor Lalith Alahakoon, I was privy to a conversation he had with Rajapaksa before he sent a female journalist to interview the then opposition politician from Hambantota. They discussed various things that ranged from politics to jokes. Their friendship bloomed and the bond became so strong that when Lasantha became the editor of the Sunday Leader, the then President Chandrika Kumaratunga accused Mr. Rajapaksa of being the reporter for his friend's newspaper. Lasantha was gunned down on Thursday morning. The killers dared not show their faces. It was left to us, the journalists and the people who believe that media freedom is essential for a vibrant democracy, to close our eyes and visualize the face of terror that took Lasantha's life. Sadly, among those faces of terror was the government, however much we try to erase that image. A longstanding friendship between them notwithstanding, Mr. Rajapaksa and Mr. Wickrematunge had their differences. One such incident was when Mr. Wickrematunge charged that the President used abusive language to chide him for publishing a story about his family in the Sunday Leader. Mr. Rajapaksa must be as sad as -- or sadder than -- we ourselves are after he heard the news around 2.15 p.m. on Thursday that his friend Lasantha Wickrematunga was no more. But he also would have blamed himself, like we too blamed ourselves, for not taking adequate steps to promote a media culture where dissent was tolerated and journalists felt safe. When we question ourselves as to who killed Lasantha, also among the faces of terror was that of ours -- the people of Sri Lanka. The killer was made of our lack of commitment to democracy and media freedom and our failure to question or check government politicians' brash moves to label even democratically-spirited criticism as attempts to undermine the war effort. For most of us democracy means regular elections to the presidency, parliament and various councils – nothing more. Therefore, there was little or no countrywide protest when good governance, media freedom, transparency, justice and human rights were buried in the name of war. Even those who value these ingredients of democracy hold their voices of protest for the sake of the war, for they are being told in a hope-stirring manner that victory is nigh and therefore one must learn to sacrifice -- even democracy. There were a few who saw that democracy can co-exist with and contribute positively to the war against the LTTE – and questioned corruption in the government but they were quickly labelled terrorist supporters and gagged. At the beginning of Eelam war IV, President Rajapaksa had a word for editors. He said he respected the media's right to criticize him or his government and he even welcomed such criticism, and he would also welcome media's cooperation in fighting the war against terrorism. He was probably true to his words. But only a few media personnel saw the thin line between what is permissible and what is not. Sadly, most journalists either became government vassals or exercised self-censorship. The vassals – embedded types -- won kudos while others became bad guys despite their self-censorship. The media became virtually silent. Our silence has killed Lasantha and, before him, several media personnel, some in the south but most in the north. During the 1988-90 reign of terror, journalist Richard de Zoysa paid the price for exercising the people's right to information. Months before the Rajapaksa era began, someone killed journalist Dharmaratnam Sivaram. The good name of Rajapaksa, who was once known more for his human rights activism than politics, was sullied when global media activist groups last year branded Sri Lanka as one of the most dangerous places for journalists. Remember Keith Noyahr? He was assaulted and almost killed for exercising his democratic right to freedom of expression. Journalist Jayaprakash Tissainayagam has been behind bars for ten months for his writing. Though, Tissa was not killed, his spirit has been, as he hopelessly waits for the freedom which is becoming more elusive with each passing day. The killing of Lasantha, the assault on Noyahr, the blast last week at the MTV/Siriasa station raise another serious question: Is there a state within the state? If there is, then we are hurtling towards a failed state, unfortunately at a time when the armed forces are liberating territory after territory in the north and taking the country towards a final victory. Let's learn to tolerate dissent.





Dad of a 100 kissesJournalists both, Lasantha and Raine Wickrematunge, were an integral part of The Sunday Times team in the early days of the newspaper in the late '80s and early '90s, he writing the political column under the pseudonym Suranimala and she working as sub-editor and subsequently Features Editor. It was a link that had begun many years earlier at the Sun and Weekend newspapers in the early '80s, in the company of many of their erstwhile colleagues who were now at 'The Times'.They left The Sunday Times to launch The Sunday Leader in 1994. In this article, Lasantha's ex-wife, Raine, relives her fond memories in an appreciation we invited her to contribute to their former newspaper.

When The Sunday Times asked whether I would write an article about Lasantha for its latest edition, I doubted I could muster the emotional strength to write even a sentence, let alone an article. I am broken-hearted, my mind is in a daze and I feel numb. I will, however, attempt to write a few words. I will not elaborate on Lasantha the journalist because you, the public, are more than aware of his now legendary writings for which he finally paid the price. I will instead write about the man Lasantha, the funny guy, the doting dad...the man who, at the risk of being called biased, I will call in all sincerity, the man with the biggest heart. Raine and Lasantha at the Sun office To say Lasantha was a loving father would be an understatement. He adored his children. They were his world. Our firstborn, Avinash, now a young man, was still "his darling" at 19. I remember the time when Avinash was a baby, just learning to stand, when he toppled over the edge of the cot and came crashing down on to the floor. I don't know who cried louder, Lasantha or the baby. Ahimsa was his "darling only daughter". Like the others, she got anything she asked him, especially after she came to live with him in Colombo. Aadesh, our 10-year-old, was almost an obsession with his father. "Malli Boy" became the most kissed, hugged and loved child in the world. Whenever Lasantha came to Melbourne, father and son would have a ritual – the ritual of the 100 kisses. Dad had to have his 100 kisses before anything else. Lasantha's day in Sri Lanka wasn't complete until he had spoken to the two boys in Melbourne. If one of the children wasn't available to talk with him, he would call back without fail. I only had to tell him one of the kids had the sniffles or a graze on the knee, and he would be in a panic... How our children will now cope without his love, I can't begin to imagine. Lasantha was the biggest hearted man I have ever known. Generous, loving and kind to strangers and friends alike. His generosity towards his family and extended family is beyond belief. Some would find his generosity bizarre; case in point. About 10 years ago, we were returning home from a visit. While we were stationary, another car crashed in to the side of ours, damaging our car badly. Luckily no one was hurt and Lasantha got off to talk to the driver of the other vehicle. When he came back to the car, everyone bombarded him with questions. "What's happening? Do we go to the police? Is he paying for the damage?" "Those people are from out-station," Lasantha told us. "They had come for a wedding; the driver just got his licence." And then he took me aside and said, "I feel so sorry for the fellow; he's so shaken up. I gave him 2,000 rupees." I was astounded; but then again, I wasn't really. That was Lasantha. His generosity wasn't just in kind. When we were assaulted in 1995, and the men who did it were subsequently apprehended, Lasantha called me in Melbourne. "I don't want to punish them, I told my lawyer to drop any charges. What do you think?" I told him I thought the same. Then he called back and told me his lawyer had advised him against it because they would be setting a bad precedent. Jolly, funny, hilarious, Lasantha was always the one-man comedy act. Whether prancing about in his towel doing a Schwarzenegger impression, pulling someone's leg with a high-pitched female impression, or having the girls at the Leader screaming with laughter at his jokes, Lasantha always kept people entertained. The office colleagues, one and all, every department, loved him dearly. And now Lasantha is dead, lying in a coffin with a bullet hole in his head. All the joy has gone out of me. How will I ever laugh again? I thought during that long trip back home. "How will I ever be happy again?"

 Part of me has died and I have to now live with the pain and that of my three grieving children. I told Malli Boy that Thathi loved him so much, he was going to be by his side always. "Will he come and sleep on my bed?" he asked. I told him he definitely would. "I am not scared Ammi, I want him to sleep on my bed everyday," he said tears streaming down his little face. And then this morning he woke up smiling. "Thathi told me in my dream that he is here with us," he said. I know that's true. The man who adored his children so much in life will be there by their side always. Thank you Lasantha for all the memories.



Lanka's envoy to Poland passes awayClarence Felician Chinniah, Sri Lanka's Ambassador to Poland passed away in Warsaw on Thursday following a cardiac arrest, the Foreign Ministry said.

Ambassador Chinniah joined the Sri Lanka Foreign Service in 1985, prior to which he had served as a member of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service since 1977. During this period he had served as Assistant Government Agent in the Trincomalee District, the Ministry said.

"Ambassador Chinniah had a wide ranging and distinguished career in the Foreign Service, having served in the Sri Lankan Embassies in Beijing, Havana and Brussels. He held his first Head of Mission appointment as High Commissioner in the Maldives between 1998 and 2001," the Ministry said in a media release.

Thereafter he had served as Deputy High Commissioner (with Ambassadorial rank) in New Delhi. Upon his return to the Foreign Ministry in July 2005, Ambassador Chinniah was appointed as Senior Director General in charge of Administration and Consular Affairs.





Troops surround MullaitivuThe final thrust of the Government's military offensive to deny Tiger guerrillas any domination of territory begins next week in their remaining stronghold of Mullaitivu.

This follows the Army's re-capture on Friday of Elephant Pass, described as the gateway to the Jaffna peninsula and thus securing the entirety of the A-9 Kandy-Jaffna highway. Troops are now consolidating their positions along this highway. Thereafter, troop movements and supplies to the peninsula, now sent by sea and air, will be moved by road. The movement of civilian transport services is to follow.

 Troops have laid siege on Mullativu from all directions. On the north-eastern coast the Navy has placed a tight cordon, a security source told The Sunday Times. Unlike in previous thrusts, the troops are moving with great caution to avoid civilian casualties, the source added.

An estimated 400,000 or more civilians are said to be in the Mullaitivu area. Besides the indigenous population, around 250,000 are Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) who have fled to guerrilla controlled areas from western Wanni.

The past week has seen the Air Force stepping up attacks on guerrilla targets.

Troops advancing into the last of the LTTE-held areas in the Wanni yesterday captured a vital LTTE possession, an airstrip, five kilometres west of the Mullaitivu lagoon.

The airstrip, 2.5 kilometres long and 100 metres wide and containing two hangars, was taken over by troops of 58 Division.

This is the fourth LTTE airstrip to be captured by the security forces since offensives began nearly two years ago, according to the military.



Mystery surrounds MTV mine; UNP sees police conspiracyAs a cloud of mystery hangs over the claymore mine allegedly found at the scene of last Tuesday's attack on the MTV/MBC studio complex in Pannipitiya, the main opposition UNP said there was a conspiracy to pin the blame on the party. Earlier, Police spokesperson Ranjith Gunasekara had quoted the Government Analyst as saying an SM 96-type claymore mine weighing more than 8 kilograms was found in the wreckage. However, the government denied that there was a claymore mine. The damaged control room of the MTV/MBC station Media Minister Anura Priyadarshana Yapa told a news briefing that no claymore mine was found at the MTV/MBC studio complex. Meanwhile, The Sunday Times learns that the Government Analyst's Department has been ordered to keep silent about the ongoing investigation. The Government Analyst's report is due on January 26. Early on Tuesday morning, a white van pulled up in front of the MTV/MBC studio and 20 men armed with grenades and T-56 assault rifles stormed the studio and destroyed television equipment worth millions of rupees, the TV station said. The police have asked MTV to hand over to them their closed circuit television tapes. The final police report on the investigation on the MTV/MBC attack will be submitted on June 24. Meanwhile, the opposition UNP said there was a police conspiracy to pin the blame on it. On Friday, the Maharagama police arrested UNP Kotte Municipal Councillor Suraj Anthony Jayasuriya in connection with the MTV/MBC attack. The Maharagama police said they arrested Jayasuriya after receiving an anonymous call alleging that Jayasuriya's black Land Rover had been used to transport the T-56 weapons used in the MTV/MBC attack. The caller was said to have told the police that the assailants had parked their white van in Rajagiriya and then loaded their weapons on to the Kotte MMC's vehicle. At a news conference held yesterday, UNP Kotte MMC Chandima Nayanajith said that on the day of the attack the Kotte MMC Jayasuriya, his wife and a lawyer friend were attending a party at his house in Borella, and that the party had gone on till very late. Mr. Naynajith pointed out that the "anonymous caller" had provided the name, address, telephone number and vehicle number of the arrested Kotte MMC, but had failed to note the licence number of the white van from which the weapons were reportedly unloaded. "When I asked the Maharagama police OIC why the number of the white van was not taken, he reprimanded me," Mr. Nayanajith said. 





'Take me to Elephant Pass; I want to see the bulldozer my son destroyed''Take me to Elephant Pass; I want to see the bulldozer my son destroyed'

"My only wish is to visit Alimankada and see the LTTE bulldozer my son destroyed," says 61-year-old Y. L. Juliet, the mother of Army Corporal Gamini Kularathne, better known as Hasalaka Weeraya, who, in 1991, sacrificed his life to save his comrades by attacking an explosives-laden bulldozer driven by an LTTE suicide cadre in Elephant Pass. Juliet: She gave her son for the country The bulldozer Gamini stopped by sacrificing his life On July 1, 1991, the young rifleman of the Sri Lanka Army Sinha Regiment prevented the LTTE bulldozer from entering the Elephant Pass Army camp by climbing on to the vehicle and immobilizing it by lobbing hand grenades. The Parama Weera Vibhushanaya (PWV) award for the bravery of highest order was conferred on him posthumously. Near the turn off to Wasgamuwa at Hasalaka, a remote Kandy district town bordering the Moneragala district, stands his memorial. Around 100 metres away from the memorial, is his house. Juliet cries at times. Yet, at other times, she smiles. Although she feels sad about the loss of her son, the second of six children, there's a sense of pride as she reflects over his sacrifice. "My husband was a farmer. He died when my son was small. After his death I started tilling the field. But it was only Gamini who worked properly with me in the fields. He got through the GCE Ordinary Level. But to help the family, he joined the Army," Juliet said, adding that her son was also a good debater and sportsman. She also attended his passing out parade, she says reflecting on his early days in the army. "Two of his friends also joined the army with him. He trained at the Konduwatuwana camp in Ampara. I went for his passing out parade. He served in Ampara, Palali, Kankesanturai before he was sent to Alimankada". She says her son's main ambitions were to convert their little hut into a proper house and to help his younger brothers and sisters. In his letters from the battlefront to his mother, Gamini hardly spoke about the war. "He didn't like to talk much about the war. He used to tell me, 'Amma, don't worry about that. We will defeat the terrorists and save our country'". As he came home for the last time, he rushed out saying that he had to buy items for Vesak in Alimankada, says Juliet. "I didn't even get to see my son's body. They brought home a sealed box. I fainted when I saw that. But, I conducted my son's funeral with a sense of respect", she says adding, "I received the Weeramatha Diriya Matha award." Juliet says that following her son's death, the then President, Ranasinghe Premadasa, who came to pay his respects had, together with Mr. Tissa Attanayake, helped build their house, while President Mahinda Rajapaksa had also visited the family.



Online registration for all citizensThe government has asked all Sri Lanka citizens to register themselves online with the Ministry of Defence.

The request is part of a government effort to further screen all persons residing in the country, said Lakshman Hulugalle, director general of the Media Centre for National Security. A website – www.citizens.lk – has been set up for the purpose.

Sri Lanka residents are required provide personal details, including name, ethnicity, home address, type of house (apartment/flat, annexe, shop) occupied, and the nearest police station. Details of temporary residents should also be declared.

"There is no time frame for registering, but if the response from the public is slow, the authorities may have to enforce registration through the law, perhaps even using emergency regulations," Mr. Hulugalle said.

Those with no access to the internet can register at any government institution that has a special counter for registration purposes. Mobile units will be deployed in different areas on different days to facilitate the registration process.

One benefit of the online registration is that individuals can be traced speedily, Mr. Hulugalle said.



Condemnation for the cowardly actThe Editors' Guild of Sri Lanka said it condemned the assassination of Sunday Leader Editor Lasantha Wickrematunge in the severest possible terms and records its disgust at the trend in which media freedom, or what is left of it in Sri Lanka, is being trampled upon. "This incident, coming in the wake of the arson attack on the MTV/MBC station early on Tuesday morning, clearly displays a complete disregard for Democracy and the Rule of Law. Friday's protest at Fort against the killing. Pic by M.A. Pushpa Kumara What we are witnessing is an ongoing campaign against the dissemination of information to the citizenry and democratic dissent. An adversarial relationship between any government and the media is good for governance and Lasantha epitomized this. It is also the inalienable right of the people to be kept informed and to decide on the choice of media. 

 What is most disconcerting is that there is no real attempt to stop – or in the least- discourage this violent campaign that has been unleashed. The finger, therefore, would point in the direction of the Government due to the inaction on its part to stem this slide into authoritarianism that the people of this country abhor. The Guild calls upon the Government to investigate this despicable crime and expresses its sympathies to the family of Mr. Wickrematunge." The Board of Directors of the Sri Lanka Press Institute (SLPI) expressed shock and horror over the murder of the Sunday Leader Editor Lasantha Wickrematunge. "It is well known that the late Wickrematunga had an adversarial relationship with both the incumbent government as well as its predecessor. This killing has taken place just two days after the armed attack on the MTV/MBC television station at Depanama", a news release said. "Inaction over previous such incidents has created a public perception that both these attacks may have involved a State agency and it is incumbent on the President and the Government to dispel such suspicion by a thorough and meticulous investigation. No suspects have been arrested over recent attacks on media personalities including Keith Noyahr, Deputy Editor of the Nation, and Namal Perera of the Sri Lanka Press Institute," it stressed. The transparent investigation and speedy arrest of suspects is most essential in the interest of all concerned. The Directors of the SLPI urge the Government to utilize all resources at its command to bring the killers to justice. 







Don't bring outside support says Police Polls ChiefThe Police Elections Secretariat has requested all political parties and their supporters to refrain from bringing 'unnecessary elements' from outside to the Central and North Western provinces during the election period so that polls could be conducted in a free and fair manner. "We have already observed that unnecessary and unruly groups are operating in some of the areas. We request the parties to refrain from importing such groups as they will create problems in these areas," Police Elections Secretariat Chief DIG Gamini Navaratne said. The DIG also sought the help of all political parties, supporters and others to ensure that the upcoming elections set to take place next month, are conducted in a free and fair manner. He added that any police officer found neglecting his duties during the election period will be dealt with severely. DIG Navaratne made these observations at a meeting held at the Elections Department on Friday attended by the Elections Commissioner, senior police officers and secretaries of political parties. JVP Parliamentarian Sunil Handunnetti who also attended this meeting said the parties urged the police to take tough action against those who violated election laws and requested the Elections Commissioner to forward to them the circular sent out to public servants recently over the misuse of State vehicles. Meanwhile, several election-related incidents have already been reported from the North Western and Central provinces, election monitoring organizations said. People's Action for Free and Fair Elections (PAFFREL) had so far reported five incidents of election violence, all from the Central province, PAFFREL chairman Kingsley Rodrigo said. "Only one major incident has been reported so far. In this incident, the sister of UNP candidate Shanthini Kongahage was attacked," he said. Mrs. Kongahage's house and office is located along the Kandy-Colombo main road in Pilimatalawa. A group of around four men had allegedly entered the premises at around 9.30 p.m. on January 1 and started removing the cut-outs and boards there. When Mrs. Kongahage's sister, who was at home at that time, had come out, the men had forcibly dragged her and tried to force her into a three-wheeler. The Kadugannawa police are inquiring into the incident, DIG Navaratne said. Mr. Rodrigo said that five monitoring offices were also established in the respective districts and a total of 3,000 monitors are to be deployed, with 600 serving as mobile monitors. "We are currently training our observers. Monitoring offices have also been established at the Divisional Secretariat, while a multi-party monitoring committee will be set up at the national level at the Elections Department", he said. Campaign for Free and Fair Elections (CaFFE) has received six election-related incidents, CaFFE media spokesman Keerthi Tennakoon said, adding that two incidents were reported from Matale district and one each from Nuwara Eliya, Puttalam, Kurunegala and Kandy districts. "Five of these incidents are to do with attacks on political offices, but no major damage was reported. However, two people were injured and some property damaged in the clash between the CWC and UPF members on December 31," he said.



Wild life experts lock horns over baby elephant transfersAs controversy surrounded preparations to transfer two "babies" from the Elephant Transit Home (ETH) at Uda Walawe to the Pinnawela Orphanage, opinion among activists was divided whether this was a good or bad move. "We are hoping to move 'Atlas' and another baby elephant from ETH to Pinnawela on Sunday (today) or this week," said W.A.D.A. Wijesooriya, Director-General of the Department of Wild Life Conservation (DWLC), when contacted by The Sunday Times. The Sunday Times reliably learns that the transfer of baby elephants will take place today. (January 11) When asked whether the transfer was to ensure that foreign tourists could see babies being bottle-fed milk at Pinnawela as alleged by conservationists, the Director-General was quick to reject it, saying that the ETH was overcrowded. "Whereas there should only be about 20-25 elephants there, we have about 35," he said. Even Uda Walawe Park capacity is an issue, was his contention. A recent survey had found that the 30,000-hectare park had 700 elephants of which 400 were adults and in the northern part last year bull elephants had killed two people and destroyed crops, the DG said. Baby elephants being fed at the Uda Walawe transit home So, more releases into the wild would mean less space for them and more forays into villages, resulting in human-elephant conflicts, was the DG's view which was also echoed by some conservationists. However, other wildlife experts who wished to remain anonymous claimed that the transfer was just to "give pleasure to foreigners" in seeing babies being bottle-fed. "At present, the babies at Pinnawela are under-fed by their mothers, which in itself is a wonderful sight, as happens only in the wild," one activist pointed out. "That should be promoted among tourists". Asked whether it was right to move two baby elephants meant for release to the wilds to an orphanage where they would have to lead a captive life, though in relative freedom unlike a zoo, DG Wijesooriya said that although 'Atlas' had been reintroduced to the wild, he had returned to ETH. The other baby which was already in the wild was "going into villages on the eastern part of the park and there was a likelihood of it facing some harm from humans". A third earmarked for Pinnawela was frequenting the Habarana-Minneriya Road and people were feeding it. "We are hoping to capture it and take it to Pinnawela," he said. However, other sources were adamant that no baby reintroduced to the wild was going into any villages. One source said the department was trying to find lame excuses to justify its whims. With regard to 'Atlas', The Sunday Times understands that a special "re-integration plan" to the wild has been drawn up. But when asked Mr. Wijesooriya denied knowledge of such a plan. While some activists argued that like at Pinnawela, even at ETH babies came into human contact and could one day go into villages because they were used to humans, wildlife officials said the contact was minimal. "Yes, these babies which have been abandoned, when brought to ETH have to be bottle-fed and later funnel-fed," said an official, explaining that the moment they are weaned they are sent into the wild." The babies are also not tethered with chains attached to their legs at night but tied with rope around their necks. To concerns about the monitoring of freed babies, a source explained that radio collars are fixed when they are released. "Records indicate integration with wild herds without a problem," the source said. With The Sunday Times getting information that the babies were to be moved from Uda Walawe to Pinnawela at a ceremony most-probably attended by Environment Minister Champika Ranawaka himself, the questions that arise are: What is the mandate of the much-commended and unique ETH? On what grounds are so-called "foster parents" or sponsors mobilized to pay for the babies? If the babies are being looked after at ETH to be freed to the wild, is it right for them to be shunted here and there? Serious issues need serious answers after due discussion by the DWLC in consultation with the experts, including those who look after the elephants at Uda Walawe, Pinnawela and the Zoo.



Elephant Pass fallsThe opening of the vital A-9 highway following the capture of the strategic Elephant Pass area by the security forces for the first time in 23 years will bring much relief to the people of the north, according to the military spokesman. The road is expected to be opened for civilian movement within the next three months, spokesman Brigadier Udaya Nanayakkara said. At present air and sea routes are used for the transport of people and goods.The re-opening of the A9 will bring down the prices of essential items in the Jaffna peninsula and revive trade between the north and the south, government officials said. The old sign board announcing visitors that they are entering Elephant Pass The recapture of Elephant Pass, the gateway to Jaffna, on Friday dealt another crushing blow to the LTTE which took control of the area in 2000 in what was then regarded as one of the worst setbacks for the Sri Lanka army. Some 1,600 soldiers died in that debacle. Minister and defence spokesman Keheliya Rambukwella said on Friday that the re-capture of Elephant Pass was a tribute to all the men who laid down their lives defending the camp over the years. It was the ground troops from the 53 and 55 Divisions led by Brigadiers Kamal Gunaratne and Prasanna Silva and supported by Air Force cover who on Friday stormed Elephant Pass amidst stiff resistance from the LTTE. During the most part of the 25-year-old conflict, the A9 highway was largely controlled by the LTTE which imposed taxes on those using the route, thus curtailing trade and communication between the Jaffna peninsula and the rest of the country. The A9 was of great importance during all these years as it was the only available land route from the south to Jaffna after the LTTE destroyed the railway route. Military analysts pointed out that the re-capture of Elephant Pass and the total control of the A9 highway were a serious blow to the fighting capabilities of the LTTE which is now cornered and confined to a small area further east of Kilinochchi. The victory of the security forces had dealt a severe blow to the LTTE internationally, especially among the Tamil Diaspora who were forced to provide financial and other support to what the rebels claimed was their final battle, they said. A military tank engaged in a mopping up operation in the newly-liberated Elephant Pass area. In 2000, Some 1,600 soldiers died while trying to defend the sprawling military garrison at Elephant Pass from a major LTTE offensive. The garrison was seized by the LTTE which occupied it until security forces on Friday recaptured it. Meanwhile firecrackers exploded throughout the south as President Mahinda Rajapaksa announced the re-capture of Elephant Pass by the security forces in a special address to the nation. He said it was the duty of everyone to pay tribute to the troops who sacrificed their lives towards this end. "We are now engaged in giving new life to the unitary status of our country. We are enlivening democracy in our land. The defeat of terrorism means giving life to an honourable peace and freedom. "We are dedicated to give our children the opportunity to travel freely from Devundara to any part of the country and for all our people, whether Sinhala, Tamil, Muslim, Burgher, Malay or any other community to live together in unity," the President said. He also warned of a conspiracy backed by certain international forces to belittle these victories and divert the attention of the people in other directions. "The conspirators are aiming to destroy the morale of our troops, destabilize the country and make room for various international forces to interfere and grab our gains from us," the President said. The funeral of Colonel Nalinda Kumarasinghe, the senior most officer to sacrifice his life for the country in the ongoing Wanni operations, will be held with full military honours today at the Balapitiya General Cemetery. Colonel Kumarasinghe succumbed to injuries sustained in an explosion caused by cluster bombs at Pulopallai, hours before the 53rd and 55th Divisions completed their capture of Elephant Pass on Friday, said Major Marsk Mallawaarachchi, for the Sri Lanka Army's Director Media. Kumarasinghe Hettiarachchilage Ajith Nalinda Kumarasinghe was born in Ratnapura on July 20, 1967. He completed his education at the Ratnapura Seevali Central College, and joined the Sri Lanka Army on July 20, 1987. He was attached to the 5th Battalion of the Gemunu Watch (5GW) as a platoon commander. He received further military training in Bangladesh and Pakistan. He was made a Lieutenant Colonel in 2007, and was posthumously promoted to the rank of colonel. At the time of his death, Colonel Kumarasinghe was commanding the 5th Battalion of the Gemunu Watch under the Air Mobile Brigade, Jaffna. Colonel Kumarasinghe was also one of the commanding officers put in charge of the first contingent of Gemunu Watch soldiers sent overseas on a UN peace-keeping mission to Haiti. Colonel Kumarasinghe was involved in a number of anti-LTTE military operations, including Balawegaya I, Balawegaya II, Riviresa, Hideout, Thrividha Balaya, Akunu Pahara, Gajasinghe and Bhumikampa. Medals received for valour shown on the battlefield included the Rana Wickrema Padakkama, the Rana Sura Padakkama, and the Purna Bhumi Padakkama. He was also decorated for his work in North and East operations, the Riviresa campaign, the 50th Independence anniversary commemorations and peace-keeping operations. With the fall of Elephant Pass the LTTE today is trapped in a small area, and the day of final victory is not far off. While our military is winning accolades locally and internationally for its valiant efforts, there are attempts to undermine this success by creating a scenario to discredit the government. The burning of the MTV premises and the killing of the editor of The Sunday Leader are two such instances, and we strongly condemn both acts. There is no one in the government who is so stupid and low as to resort to such actions. The government troops' recent victories have been achieved in an honourable manner. Attempts are being made by certain people to belittle these victories. Some parties that have exhausted all their slogans are acting in a way that will help the Tigers, who are now on their last legs. The LTTE overran Elephant Pass when it was under the control of government troops in an operation they called "Unceasing Waves". Now the unceasing waves of our armed forces have started, and the LTTE is now trapped in Mullaithivu. It won't be long before the entire North is liberated by the troops. The opening of the A 9 is a vital achievement by our forces. There can now be free movement of people and goods across the Pass. I think Mullaithivu will also fall soon. The LTTE has called itself a liberation army, but they have given no liberation to the Tamil people. With the fall of Elephant Pass, people will now be free to travel about, and the high cost of living in the peninsula will fall. The LTTE gave the Muslims living in Jaffna 24 hours to leave, but all their property is there, and these should be restored to the Muslims. 'Take me to Elephant Pass; I want to see the bulldozer my son destroyed'



Govt. rejects call for foreign probe on Lasantha killingThe government yesterday rejected a call to bring in a team of international experts to investigate the killing of Sunday Leader editor Lasantha Wickrematunge, saying the Sri Lanka police were capable of conducting the investigation themselves.

Media Minister Anura Priyadarshana Yapa told The Sunday Times that President Mahinda Rajapaksa had already directed the Inspector General of Police, Jayantha Wickramaratne, to conduct a thorough and impartial inquiry into Mr. Wickrematunge's death, and that outside assistance was therefore not necessary.

The UNP and several opposition parties have called on the government to appoint an international team to carry out the probe, saying they do not have confidence in the local police and local investigators.

 The editor was shot dead by unidentified gunmen at Bakery Junction in Attidiya while he was driving to office on Thursday morning.

Meanwhile, the police are conducting a separate investigation to ascertain whether there is a link between the recent attack on the MTV/MBC studio in Pannipitiya and the assassination of Mr. Wickrematunga.

"Our detectives are probing the case from every possible angle," a senior police officer said. "We are trying to ascertain if the same assailants who were involved in the MTV/MBC studio attack were responsible for the killing of The Sunday Leader editor. So far we have no leads in either investigation, but we are analysing fingerprints found at the scene of the attack on the MTV/MBC complex."

The Police Fingerprint Bureau has so far gathered 24 separate fingerprints relating to the MTV/MBC attack, and four fingerprints from the car Mr. Wickrematunga was driving when he was shot dead.



Seven die as Tigers fire at fleeing civiliansAt least seven civilians, including two women and a toddler, were killed and two injured as LTTE gunmen opened fire on a group of people who were trying to flee to the Government-controlled area east of Paranthan, the military said yesterday.

Military spokesperson Udaya Nanayakkara told The Sunday Times the victims were a part of a group of more than 50 civilians who were fleeing Seven die as the LTTE-held area of Murasumoddai on Friday night.

The two wounded civilians were being treated by army para-medics and would be transferred to a hospital for follow-up treatment, he said. Brigadier Nayakkkara said 49 civilians in the group were rescued by the army.

In another escape attempt last week, 39 civilians crossed over to the Government-controlled areas from Nagarkovil and Vettilankerni, indicating that the people were ready to defy the LTTE.

Meanwhile, according to military estimates, it will take at least three months before the newly captured A9 highway will be opened for civilian traffic, since the area is heavily mined and booby trapped.

Brigadier Nanayakkara said foreign experts with the Mine Action Program would also be pressed into service on the A9 de-mining efforts.

He said the LTTE had also destroyed several bridges and causeways before retreating and it would take the government considerable amount of time to repair them.







Waiting for food convoy greenlightWhile the security forces prepare for a major onslaught on Mullaitivu, the LTTE's last main base in the North, the United Nations is assessing the ground situation before it sends more food stocks and essentials for internally displaced persons (IDPS) trapped in the conflict zone.

K. Adnan Khan, World Food Programme (WFP) country director for Sri Lanka, told The Sunday Times that the UN was closely following the situation, following the recapture of Kilinochchi, and that aid would flow into the region only after the WFP organisers had reassurances from all parties involved in the conflict.

The International Red Cross (ICRC) said it would continue to escort food convoys entering the troubled areas, Mr. Khan said.

"However everything will depend on the ground situation, because the safety of our staff operating the convoys is of the utmost importance. We do not know when the fighting will escalate, and it would not do to have our staff trapped in such a scenario," he said.

The most recent WFP aid convoy, carrying 811 tons of food (sufficient to feed 230,000 people for a week) entered the Wanni conflict zone on Thursday.The WFP has sent 6,617 tons of food to the Wanni since November last year.





Rains aiding return of the dreaded ChikungunyaIt is feared that the dreaded mosquito-borne Chikungunya virus (CHIKV) is making a comeback after a two-year absence. Reports of people falling victim to Chikungunya are coming in from rural areas.Scattered rains around the country are encouraging the spread of the virus, according to a Health Ministry official.

Dr. Hasitha Tissera, consultant community physician of the Epidemiology Unit of the Ministry of Health, said laboratory tests conducted in November and December last year revealed more than 3,000 cases of CHIKV in four districts: Ratnapura, Moneragala, Ampara and Polonnaruwa.

Dr. Tissera said areas not affected during the 2006 CIHKV outbreak may be vulnerable this time around, because of the current weather conditions, and that people in urban areas where the virus was prevalent in 2006 might enjoy a degree of immunity.

"As a result of the rains, areas not affected in the 2006 may be affected this year," Dr. Tissera said. "Because a large number of CHIKV cases were reported in urban areas in 2006, we expect a long-term immunity to help control the spread of the disease."

"Steps must be taken to stop the disease from spreading," he said. "All breeding spots where rain water can collect should be eliminated. Ninety per cent of the breeding of these mosquitoes takes place in man-made receptacles, such as discarded tyres, flower pots, bird baths, broken coconut shells, plastic containers, as well as in blocked drains.

"Only five per cent of the breeding takes place in natural breeding conditions."



Golden Key staff may take legal actionStaff of the collapsed Golden Key Credit Card company (GK) are considering legal action against the company, according to some GK staff.

"We are getting legal opinion as to what to do, because currently we do not have a manager or a director and there is no response from the Chairman's (Lalith Kotelawala's) office," a member of the staff told The Sunday Times.

He said though every day 400 staff members come to work, just 10 % are actually working. He said there are customer calls, and only some calls are answered.

He said the staff was told by the company deputy chairman Nihal Peiris that they will not lose their benefits or jobs.

"Subsequently Rohan Senanayake, Nihal Peiris and Ranga Gunewardena (all deputy chairmen of companies in the GK Group) said they will be transferred to other firms in the group, but the staff did not agree," he said.

He said the staff had requested a meeting with Mr. Kotelawala, but did not get one. On January 2, the staff had lodged a complaint at the Bambalapitiya Police Station with regard to an issue over their vehicles which the company wanted back. The Sunday Times was not able to contact the GK management or Mr. Kotelawala despite numerous attempts. (DEC)



Govt. should take responsibility for killing of Janaka PereraOpposition leader Ranil Wickremesinghe says the fact that the killing of Major General (Retd) Janaka Perera in October 2008 was not mentioned by President Mahinda Rajapaksa in his address to the nation on Friday suggested that the government should take responsibility for the assassination. In his broadcast speech, the President had given a list of examples of an international conspiracy to tarnish the government's image. Mr. Wickremesinghe serving dana to the monks at Mihintale yesterday. Pic by Athula Bandara The Opposition leader made his comment after participating in a religious ceremony held in memory of Major General (Rtd) Janaka Perera and others who died in a suicide bomb blast three months ago. The ceremony took place at the Mihintale Sanchi Viharaya. "The president says an international conspiracy to bring the government into disrepute was behind the assassination of Mr. Joseph Pararajasingham, the bombing of the Jaffna-based Udayan newspaper office, the abduction of and assault on a journalist of an English newspaper after the liberation of Toppigala, the assassination of Parliamentarian T. Maheswaran, the arson attack on the Sirasa media institute, and the assassination of Mr. Lasantha Wickramatunga. However, since he does not say such a thing about the assassination of Mr. Janaka Perera, it is confirmed that the government should take responsibility for it," Mr. Wickremesinghe he said. Mr. Wickremesinghe said Major-General Perera had dedicated his life to the country, first as a senior Army officer and then as a politician. "In 1983, Major-General Perera was among the first officers in the three armed forces to receive anti-terrorist training. At the time, the LTTE was also training its men. It was pioneer military officers like Mr. Perera who empowered our Army to confront the LTTE," he said. Commenting on the alleged international conspiracy to tarnish the government's image, Mr. Wickremesinghe said the government should say what country or persons were involved in the said conspiracy. "If those incidents are being called an international conspiracy, then reveal the country involved. Why not lodge a complaint with the United Nations?" he asked.



Conspiracy to divert attention from victoriesPresident Mahinda Rajapaksa said on Friday that as people wholeheartedly greet the victory of the troops, there were efforts to belittle these victories and turn the attention of the people in other directions.

 "There is a conspiracy with the support of certain international forces to achieve this sinister objective," the President said during his address to the nation to announce the fall of Elephant Pass. The President said that people would have already realized that the aim of these conspirators is to level unfounded charges against the Army Commander and by this to destroy the morale of troops, destabilize the country, tarnish the image of the country internationally, and make room for various international forces to interfere to grab our gains away from us. He cited the assassination of MP Joseph Pararajasingham who was assassinated while in church at a Christmas service and the bomb attack on the office of the Uthayan newspaper published in Jaffna on World Press Freedom Day, as examples of this conspiracy. The President added that when Thoppigala was being freed, an effort was made to distract from the importance of this victory by the abduction and assault of a journalist from an English language newspaper. He also said that the day after our troops freed Vidattaltivu dealing a major blow to the terrorists, a camp at Vavuniya for the Internally Displaced Persons was set ablaze. "When my friend and Member of Parliament T. Maheshwaran was assassinated the blame for it was directed at the Government of Sri Lanka. However it was later known that the responsibility for it lay with the LTTE," he added. The President also said that the forces have achieved another great and historic victory with the fall of Elephant Pass and the A-9 route completely freed from the clutches of the LTTE. "Our heroic troops are not only engaged in freeing the territory held by the Tigers. They are engaged in the great humanitarian battle to bring peace, freedom and democracy to the Tamil people of the North," he said.



President Mahinda Rajapaksa with Lord NasebyLord Naseby PC, Co-Chairman of the All Party Parliamentary Group of the UK on Sri Lanka greeting President Mahinda Rajapaksa at Temple Trees when he met the latter on Thursday. Human Rights MinisterMahinda Samarasinghe, President's Secretary Lalith Weeratunga and Foreign Ministry Secretary Dr.Palitha Kohona were also present.



Rapid development plan for Kilinochchi townIn the wake of recent military victories, the Government is venturing on a crash development programme in the newly-liberated Kilinochchi town, with the objective of getting civilians to return and begin a new life.

Presidential Advisor Basil Rajapaksa presided over a meeting on Friday in the wake of the security forces' victory in Elephant Pass – a victory that helped the troops take full control of the strategic A-9 highway – to explore ways and means to restore facilities in Kilinochchi town.

Among those who attended the meeting were Kilinochchi District Secretary N. Vedhanayagan and senior officials from the Health, Education and Housing departments and the Road Development Authority.

Indian High Commissioner Alok Prasad was invited as an observer. A team of government officials will visist Kilinochchi next week to assess the damage and requirements once security clearance is given, Resettlement Ministry secretary A.C.M. Razik told The Sunday Times.

He said immediate priorities would be improving schools, hospitals and developing roads and the transport sector. "The aim is to get civilians back into these areas as soon as possible. One way would be to develop the town so that people can return," he said.

The Kilinochchi project is the first such attempt to get the civilians who fled from the northern war zone back in their own area. Since August last year, troops have secured areas in Mannar, Madhu, Pooneryn, Kanakarayankulam, but civilians have not been allowed to return to their homes due to security reasons.

 On Friday government officials also discussed arrangements for the displaced persons who are expected to arrive in Vavuniya from the uncleared areas.

Rs. 30 million was allocated to improve facilities for the displaced persons, officials said.



