CIM Sri Lanka Region belt-and-braces for the ensuring year"In 2009, we expect to intensify our expansion strategy both regionally and provincially" envisaged Mr. Shiraz Latiff, Chairman, CIM Sri Lanka Region, elucidating on their focus for 2008/2009: "Marketing to the Masses and Marketers to the Boardroom" at the 13th Annual General Meeting of The Chartered Institute of Marketing Sri Lanka Region held on 2nd December 2008 at Trans Asia Hotel. Mr. Amal Cabraal, Honorary President of CIM Sri Lanka Region chaired the meeting. In pursuit of its vision towards recognition of marketing as the key driver of business strategy in successful corporates, CIM Sri Lanka Region has been in the forefront of marketing education in the country, harnessing marketing knowledge and world-class competencies throughout its 13 years of existence. Presenting the annual review of activities for 2007/2008, Mr. Shiraz Latiff highlighted some of the key initiatives taken by The Institute during the year; which singled out CIM Sri Lanka Region for the prestigious Best International Region Award for the fourth consecutive year at the CIM International Chairmen's Conference. In its endeavor to build CIM as the preferred choice for marketing and fostering excellence in the marketing profession, CIM Sri Lanka Region has identified 4 key stakeholder groups, namely; current and potential students, members who have already completed the qualification, channels and corporates. Among the key initiatives taken by The Institute towards student development and education support during 2008; were the launch of the Introductory Certificate in Marketing programme, introduction of local currency payment and the easy payment scheme through HSBC and American Express credit cards, launch of the CIM Student Chapters, frequent career guidance seminars etc. In order to enhance value created to its professional members, CIM Sri Lanka Region launched a membership benefits scheme; listing a host of benefits offered by a large number of organizations. CIM Professional Series, CIM Talking Point Series, The Fellows' and Chartered Marketers' Forum, CIM Ball, CEOs' Breakfast Forum, the Annual Conference, were amongst the regular programmes organised this year. In July 2008, CIM Sri Lanka Region marked another milestone in The Institute's history; by launching the first CIM Member Group in Asia, in The Maldives. Unfolding their strategy for the coming year, Mr. Shiraz Latiff stated their objectives for 2009. Increased benefits and facilities for current studying and professional members, taking CIM to the corporates and the industry and expanding provincially and regionally; were among these. Accordingly, they hope to set up at least one CIM Accredited Study Centre each in Kurunegala, Galle and Kandy; and branch out into Bangladesh by launching its second Member Group in 2009. Among the ground breaking initiatives to be launched in the next year were, the joint programmes in collaboration with other professional institutes; proposed Knowledge Hub, Membership Hub and Resource Hub to enhance its facilities to the members; provincial and regional expansion initiatives, etc. CIM Sri Lanka Region was honoured to have Mr. Bernard Gunathilake, Chairman, Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority and former Ambassador for Sri Lanka in the United States as the Chief Guest at the event. Congratulating CIM Sri Lanka Region on its illustrious journey, Mr. Gunathilaka emphasized on the marketers' role at the national level in promoting the country as a tourist and investment destination. Talking of the current global economic downturn, Mr. Gunathilake elaborated on how the sudden demise of some leading financial institutions have caste a deep shadow in countries like the United States and the United Kingdom and its impact on the global economy. He stated that as a result of globalisation and interdependence of economies no country would be immune to the reverberations of this global recession. Therefore, he urged the need to be proactive and work as a nation towards overcoming the challenges ahead. Concluding his speech, Mr. Gunathilake highlighted the role of marketers in this regard and how professional institutes like The Chartered Institute of Marketing could contribute towards overcoming these challenges. The Chartered Institute of Marketing is the world's largest and most prestigious professional body for marketing with over 50,000 members in over 80 countries around the world. CIM Sri Lanka Region is the largest CIM Region outside the UK and is the fastest growing CIM body. Presently, it serves over 3000 studying members and nearly 1200 professional members.



