Australian MBA at OxfordAbout us 

 Oxford College of Business has strongly emerged as a topmost tertiary and higher Educational Institute in Sri Lanka earning local and international fame and popularity. Oxford College has recently moved to a new convenient location in the heart of Colombo at No.100, Thurstan Rd, Colombo - 7, Opposite the Colombo University. The magnetic attraction of the Institute is currently drawing a large student population of diverse age groups, for the large selection of courses on offer and also due to the conducive environment for education. In the year 2007, Oxford College proudly launched the MBA programme in affiliation with the Australian Institute of Business Administration, a top notch private higher education provider in Australia approved by the government of Australia. MBA - Increasingly International

 A unique, intensive MBA programme, delivered on weekends within 12 months, has attracted large number of students this year. The condensed timeframe, practical focus and affordability of the Australian Institute of Business Administration (AIBA) 12 months MBA has appealed to executives and business owners from a range of industries. The unique structure and weekend delivery of the program enable participants to work full time while they study. AIBA is part of the Adelaide - based global higher education group, Gibaran Learning group (GLG), which specializes in business undergraduate, postgraduate and research qualifications and has more than 20 overseas centers that are currently delivering its' courses. Upul Darnagama, Managing Director at Oxford College of Business said, "MBA participants are benefiting from the weekend delivery and practical focus of the program". Haleema Noor, MBA programme coordinator at Oxford College of Business said, "Our participants have very busy schedules but the intensity of the program also appealed to them as they're ambitious and keen to begin applying the knowledge delivered through the program. "The participants consider it an affordable investment in their future and they're already reaping the rewards of our intensive practical course,' she said. Haleema Noor said that one of the reasons for MBA's success is that the program is run with small classes so there is lots of interaction and learning from one another. "Not only do our MBA students gain an international credential, many of them have said the knowledge they're gaining is already contributing to the bottom line of their business or workplace," she said. About the MBA at oxford Accreditation 

 The qualifications provided by AIBA are registered under the Commonwealth Register of Institutions and Courses for Overseas Students (CRICOS). The AIBA is listed on the South Australian Higher Education Register and the Australian Qualification Framework Advisory Board's register of Bodies with Authority to issue qualifications and are deemed to have the same standing as similar qualifications issued by an Australian University. The innovative 12 Month MBA model.

 Many of the most highly ranked Universities including Oxford and Cambridge offer a 12 Month MBA programme. GLG has been offering 12 month MBA programmes internationally for a number of years through its teaching centres with high degrees of success in terms of enrolments, completion rates and graduate outcomes. Same content, shorter duration

 The 12 Month MBA contains similar content to most Australian and International University courses, confirmed by the fact that the MBA is fully accredited. The intensive structure of the course forgoes term and semester breaks, which in traditional MBA models constitutes a substantial amount of time during the course.

 Intensive workshops (face to face) The 12 Month MBA is offered over eight intensive workshop days per month. This allows students to plan their year in advance and accelerates the learning process.

 Classes are held on weekends only to suit the requirements of working executives. One subject each month

 The 12 Month MBA is offered as one subject per month. This means that students need to focus on just one subject at a time, in addition to their usual personal and professional obligations. The prestigious MBA is a unique opportunity for those who are eager to embark upon this route of study and extending their knowledge base in the context of Global Business.

 The next intake for the AIBA 12 - months MBA begins on the 5th of January 2009. If you would like more information about the course, contact the course coordinator Haleema Noor on 4718711 / 12 or visit No: 100, Thurstan Rd, Colombo 7 on appointment.



