Letters to the EditorWe note an astonishing new road design on the old Peradeniya-Kandy road. The road has been widened to allow three lanes for vehicles, instead of the usual two. The result is a narrow pavement, with pedestrians being forced to jump into the drain or duck into a shop to avoid oncoming traffic. In most countries, road users are warned at least 400 metres ahead of any change in the arrangement of lanes on a highway. The middle lane of this new three-lane highway changes directions with no notice whatever, driving the hell out of any new driver entering this zone.For example, if you miss the arrow marked "North" in the middle lane, you could have a head-on collision with traffic coming from the other direction. To maintain a correct direction, you have to jump from one lane to another every 100 or 200 metres, an impossible task for any long vehicle. This is the first time I have experienced such "zig-zag" travel in a main road. The irony is that in this new road design the usual "zig-zag" warning lines of the zebra crossing have disappeared, and the zebra crossing itself is now a zig-zag. We are taught to cross roads at their narrowest width, and where there is maximum visibility. At this particular crossing, the pedestrian take twice as long to cross the road. Will this help to reduce traffic accidents?



Araliya destroyer may meet its waterloo soonThe mealybugs that have been feasting on our Araliya trees might just have met their nemesis. A neem spray being developed by Sebrin Lanka Ltd combines neem (S. Kohomba) extracts with citronella oil to create a natural pesticide. The spray is believed to repel more than 200 pests of which the mealybug is one, says Dr. Lakshmi Arambewela, the chemist at the head of the Sebrin Lanka team. If the spray performs as promised it could also aid farmers who are battling the insects on their fruit and vegetable plots – the mealybug is known to enjoy more than its fair share of papaya and guava. "The unique feature of neem products is that they do not directly kill the pests, but alter the life processing behaviour in such a manner that the insect can no longer feed, breed, or undergo metamorphosis," explains Dr. Arambewela, adding that the spray targets only the insects that actually ingest it by eating the leaves. Butterflies and ladybugs, for instance, remain unaffected. The spray has not yet received the official seal of approval, though. The Ministry of Agriculture says it will not sanction its use until the product is certified by the Pesticide Registrar in Peradeniya. The company says it is yet to apply for this certification as it requires more extensive field testing. In the meantime, the insects are expected to proliferate in the coming dry season ahead, says the Agriculture Department's Paddy and Plant Protection instructor Udeni Mangalika. She says a dearth of natural predators in the country has left many of the plants defenceless. After The Sunday Times published the story about the pest attacking Araliya trees last month, the Ministry has been flooded by calls from Colombo residents who have spotted the strange waxy white layer that causes harm to their plants. First the leaves succumb before eventually falling off, leaving the branches barren. The pest, which also causes secondary infections like mould and rust, must be caught early if it is to be contained. Outside Colombo, areas like Gampaha have reported some success in curtailing the spread, mostly thanks to early detection followed by measures like spraying water at high pressure from a hose, spraying soap water, sprinkling ash, or kohomba leaf juice regularly. The Agriculture Department has responded by arranging to have the trees sprayed with chemical pesticides, free of charge. However, where houses are close together this is not advisable. "We are working at a divisional level to try and tackle this problem," says Ms. Mangalika, adding that because of its non-toxic nature the neem spray might be suitable for use in densely populated urban areas. The company itself says it will be waiting to run more field tests before it applies for the status of a bio-pesticide and that the spray is currently available in limited quantities as a herbal product. It is currently available in a concentrated form, wherein 5 millilitres have to be diluted in one litre of water before use. The product must be sprayed in the evening as it is sensitive to light, but the company claims field tests have shown results in as little as two days. Affected trees may be reported to the Department of Agriculture on 011-2607135 or 011-2320303 (Western Province), 034-2222440 (Kalutara) and 033-2222164 (Gampaha). Those wishing to contact Sebrin Lanka may could do so on 0771817094.



It's time for a hilarious masquerade with InduIndu Dharmasena's hilarious comedy "Mr. Jekyll & Miss Hide" will go on the boards of the Lionel Wendt on January 17 and 18 at 7:30 p.m. The 17th show is presented by the Army Seva Vanitha Engineers Branch for the welfare projects planned for disabled soldiers. "The best way for a man to disguise himself is to masquerade as a woman" says the popular movie director and script writer, Kiran Kalasooriya. His bosom buddy and producer, Sanath Karsigoda says that, "No man can impersonate a woman and get away with it" so Kiran takes a bet with Sanath for Rs. 100,000 that he can masquerade as a woman and interact with a person who knows him for at least one hour. In walk Kiran's cousin Latha Alwathura with her son Asanka, an aspiring actor, as Kiran exits and "Radha Tagor" enters. They tell the unsuspecting Latha and Asanka that Radha is a famous film producer from India who has come to Sri Lanka to co-produce Kiran's next movie. Unfortunately for Sanath and Kiran the fun is cut short when a renowned journalist, Veena Liyanasiri, arrives unannounced to get an exclusive interview with Kiran about his latest movie. Before Kiran can tell his cousin that Radha is actually him, Latha informs the journalist that Radha is a famous movie producer from India here to co-produce Kiran's new movie. Determined not to ruin his own reputation Kiran has no choice but to continue masquerading as Radha. As one lie leads to another, Kiran finds himself in a rather compromising situation when his jealous fiancée, Karishma, arrives unexpectedly from abroad to surprise him. Indu Dharmasena plays Kiran Kalasooriya who masquerades as Radha Tagor, while Abbasali Rozais plays the harassed Sanath Karsigoda. Anitra Perera brings to life the inquisitive Latha Alwathura. Her spoilt and dim-witted son Asanka is played by Wassam Ismail who won the Best Actor award at the Inter-School Shakespeare competition for his portrayal of Shylock. The competent journalist Veena Liyanasiri is played by Radiesha Daluwatte and the eccentric photographer Rupalal Chitradasa by Danu Innasithamby. Sanwada Dharmasena is the jealous fiancee. Tickets are now available at the Lionel Wendt priced at Rs. 1000, Rs.800, Rs. 600 and Rs. 500 (reserved) and the Balcony Rs. 350 (unreserved).



AppreciationsAsoka Galgamuwa, Senior Superintendent of Police of the CID affectionately known as "Gali" by his close associates, passed away recently after a prolonged illness. He was an officer whose contribution to the Police Department was multifarious and enormous. Born on August 13, 1950 he was the son of late Galgamuwa Arachchige David Singho, a retired Police Sergeant and Mrs. Seetha Galgamuwa. "Gali" had his formal education at Thurstan College, Colombo and took part in many extra curricular activities. He was a senior prefect and played for the 1st XI Cricket, 1st XV Rugger and was also a good boxer. Later he was the Honorary Secretary of the school OBA and constantly contributed much to the upliftment of his alma mater. After joining the Police in 1973 he played for the Police A Division rugger team and took part in boxing tournaments and won medals. He served in the PSD and the Kollupitiya, Wellawatta and Trincomalee stations. After a long spell at the CID he became Director of the Disappearance Investigation Unit (DIU). The DIU was initiated as a unit in the CID under his stewardship with a successful new team. During this period he underwent overseas training in UK and USA. He solved a number of criminal cases including the "Royal Park murder". He was an inspirational officer, whose conduct was a beacon of hope. Our friendship lasted for two decades. ''Gali'' was there in times of need, my moment of glory as well as in sorrow. A man of action, he had indomitable courage and a burning ambition to succeed in life against unbelievable odds. Though he came from relatively humble beginnings, through his love for learning and sheer hard work he was able to reach the pinnacle of success to become one of the directors of the CID. He leaves his beloved wife Padmini and two sons.



Ajahn Brahm here to discuss Noble Eightfold Path"See you soon in Sri Lanka" were Ajahn Brahmavamso's parting words as I bade him farewell at his Serpentine monastery in Perth. That was in January last year. His visit to Sri Lanka has now been finalised and he is scheduled to be in Colombo on Saturday, January 24. This will be Ajahn Brahm's third visit to Sri Lanka since 2005. He drew huge crowds wherever he preached on his earlier visits. This time too, his visit, arranged by the Sri Lankan Buddhist community in Perth, will be eagerly awaited by everyone irrespective of whether he or she is a Buddhist or not. The 'Noble Eightfold Path' will be the theme of Ajahn Brahm's discourses with guided meditation too. A number of Ajahn Brahm's books are now available here. His disciple, Sri Lankan engineer turned monk Bhikkhu Abhaya who is now resident here, is doing a great service making these publications available. He has done several translations making it possible for Sinhala readers too to enjoy Ajahn Brahm's discourses. The highlight of his discourses is meditation, which he calls the essence of Buddhism. "People ask me like the Christians have the Bible or the Muslims the Quran, what do Buddhists have. I used to say there is the Tripitaka and the Sutttas but now I say the holy book of Buddhists is Meditation," he says. Recently I listened to him elaborating on the two different types of religions – Revealed and Realised. "The revealed religion is the one in which you are told to believe in a holy book or a holy person. You cannot argue about what has been preached in such a religion. You have to believe in what has been taught. The realised religion is different. Here you have to find the way yourself," he explained. Explaining further, he said: "Buddhism is a democratic religion not an authoritarian or autocratic one. You have a choice. Buddha has asked you to first try it yourself. You can practise and if you don't like it, you can give it up." Pointing out that Buddhism is a religion which one can feel for oneself, Ajahn Brahm said that when one says, May all beings be happy and well,"one spreads loving kindness. "In Buddhism, we are taught to realize what is right and what is wrong ourselves. You take responsibility for your actions without blaming anyone else. Blaming others is no solution to a problem. Learn from your mistakes but don't try to punish yourself," he said. Relating an incident which he will never forget throughout his life, he said how he got a telephone call from a prison official who insisted that he should come again and talk to prisoners. This was after a class he conducted for them a few months earlier. Ajahn Brahm explained to the official that he had a busy schedule and that he had arranged for other monks to continue the classes. "We want you to come," the official insisted. And Ajahn Brahm asked why. He explained that among the prisoners who followed his class there wasn't a single prisoner who came back to prison. This, the official considered a big achievement. "What I had taught them was not to punish themselves, but to forgive – to take responsibility for their actions." Describing Buddhism as a peaceful, good religion, he stressed that meditation is the way one can develop wisdom, peace and compassion. "With meditation, you become more ethical, more aware. You become honest and mindful. Meditation is the source of Buddhism." Ajahn Brahm will spend more time in the outstations during the forthcoming tour. The programme starts at the Nauyana monastery off Kurunegala on Saturday, January 24 with a Dhamma talk to monks and lay persons from 8 – 10 in the morning. The same afternoon he will conduct a guided meditation programme and deliver a discourse at the Arts Theatre, Peradeniya University. The programme is as follows: 8.30 – 11 a.m. – At Navaranghala, Royal College, Colombo

 3 – 5 p.m. - At Raja Maha Vihara, Kelaniya 8.30 – 10.30 a.m. – At Elakanda monastery, Matara

 Bhikkhu Abhaya will translate the talks to Sinhala. 9 - 11 a.m. – Talk and discussion at BMICH (In English only)

 3 – 6 p.m - At Polgasowita Monastery, Piliyandala



AppreciationsThe first of November was a very sad day for me – I lost a dear sister-in-law, a gracious lady who bore her debilitating illness for many years with patience and fortitude. Through all her pain she had a ready smile, and always showed how much she cared for us, her family, and how much our welfare meant to her. She was an example to all of us. For me she was, and always will be, Mother Courage. I dedicate this poem to her, with love. 

 TO GANJI WITH LOVE

 Today the link snapped – 

 The golden bond that held us close. 

 They told me on the phone that you had gone;

 For you, an end to pain, 

 For me, a grieving heart. 

 You were always there – 

 For me, for all of us. 

 Consoling in times of tears, 

 Sharing laughter 

 In our times of cheer. 

 The love you spread around 

 Was cherished by all of us. 

 You are gone now, 

 And have left a void so very hard to fill. 

 Farewell, I say with love, 

 You will live in many hearts, 

 I will long remember you, 

 Farewell! My heart is with her husband Sus, her children Gihan and Manomi, and their families, her sisters, her brothers, her extended family. I know they will face their irreparable loss the way she would have wanted them to – with courage and equanimity. Dear sister-in-law, may your wanderings in Sansara be short, and may you soon attain the Supreme Bliss of Nibbana.



All set for EDEXAll preparations for EDEX – 2009, the national career oriented educational exhibition, have now been completed, the Chairman of the EDEX – 2009 organizing committee, Kamal Abeysinghe announced at a recent media conference.

EDEX, aimed at empowering Sri Lankan youth to be globally competitive, is a flagship project of the Royal College Union (RCU) conducted in collaboration with the Ministry of Education. The exhibition will be held for the sixth consecutive year from January 23 - 25 at the BMICH and the following week at Queens Hotel, Kandy.

Foreign universities from the United States of America, United Kingdom, Australia, Singapore, Russia, Japan, Bangladesh, India, China, Nepal, Switzerland, France, New Zealand and Malaysia, will provide information on the courses available, and requirements for scholarships awarded by them. Students will be given 'on site' spot admissions and guidance on obtaining student visas. Several scholarships and special offers too can be had.In the professional and technical training category, a large number of institutes from the fields of Accounting, Marketing & Management, Maritime, Hospitality Management, Fashion Design, Aviation, Fine arts, and Computer studies will be present.

Over 250 education stalls can be seen at the exhibition.



Western or eastern, Koluu will be thereKoluu is about to launch his newest series of Cook Up with Koluu by courtesy of Blue Elephant from Thailand, aimed at imparting culinary know-how and expertise as an important life skill to Sri Lankans. 

 The initial 2009 series comprises four two-hour, easy cuisine demonstration sessions conducted both in the mornings and in the afternoons of four Wednesdays starting January 28 and Saturdays starting January 31.

The Blue Elephant is an international chain of leading restaurants that offers Royal Thai Cuisine in a luxurious ambience. Blue Elephant are also worldwide distributors of a range of cooking ingredients and other products (visit www.blueelephant.com).

Koluu's new Cook Up series will see the use of Blue Elephant products consisting of authentic curry pastes, exotic salad dressings and dipping sauces, snacks and sweets that are 100% natural, plus coconut and rice-ingredients essential for Eastern cooking. Sole agents for Blue Elephant products in Sri Lanka are B & Q Enterprises (Pvt) Ltd.

Master Chef Koluu will present and demonstrate some original, international menus, covering both eastern and western cuisine.

Watch out for details in the Daily Mirror and The Sunday Times. For more details call +94 77 9371844, (ask for Mariza of Event Factory) or Koluu on +94 77 7393936.



FREEDOM at NADIRWith the murder of Lasantha Wickrematunge by "unidentified" gunmen on Thursday morning, media freedom in Sri Lanka finally reached an all time low. In a week that had already seen an unprovoked and devastating attack on a leading independent broadcaster, MTV, the death of such a well-known editor was the final straw. Lasantha was someone I knew peripherally for many years. He was a journalist who divided opinion - polarised it even. Although in latter years we rarely spoke, we shared a number of friends and I was kept abreast of his frequent problems and tried to bring these to international attention when they occurred. He was flamboyant, provocative and outspoken but had good journalistic instincts - even if they did tend towards sensationalism at times. In the UK, he would have made a great tabloid editor! In the days when we were still speaking, he was good fun and could be inordinately charming. But he did not like being contradicted and in the polarised society that is the Colombo media world, I was considered one of the enemy. If you weren't with him, then you were automatically against him. Lasantha did not see shades of grey. Nonetheless, we maintained an occasional contact and the last time I heard from him was immediately after the fire-bombing of the Leader presses in 2007 when he wrote to thank me for the support my organisation had offered. At that time, he reiterated that this episode would make no difference to the line the paper took and as the months passed, he became increasingly critical of the government in power. Although we rarely saw eye to eye over any issues and had infrequent contact I never ceased to be amazed by his determination - or perhaps his foolhardiness - to go out on a limb and call politicians to account. His sources were extraordinary. Lasantha practised the journalism of opposition - opposition to everything including but not exclusively, corruption and corrupt politicians who have dragged Sri Lanka's reputation through the dirt. In many ways, he was a maverick but one who became an icon to other journalists both in Sri Lanka and in other countries where the media fight for freedom. Watching him once talking of his experiences to a group of south Asian journalists, at a workshop I had organised in Karachi, I realised that he was an able self-publicist but also eminently charismatic and persuasive when he chose. He also, of course, was a practising lawyer who personally defended his paper against many charges of defamation and to be honest, I always said that I would want Lasantha defending me if I was ever in court! His death marks a true low point in the history of a country that has such a long established and notable media. I have watched the situation deteriorate so badly over the last few years that we are now at the point where many respected journalists go in fear of their lives, many have left the country and some of the most distinguished have remained but under constant threats and intimidation. The international community does little to highlight the very real problems they face, and the current Government has turned out to be one of the most hard-line in respect of media freedom. In their single-minded determination to end the war through military might, regardless of the consequences apparently, and their refusal to accept any criticism, are they behaving like a third world dictatorship, not a country which has a long history of democracy? Their failure to allow any media into the war zone is disturbing in the extreme as no-one now has any real information on what is happening only propaganda promulgated by either the defence forces or the LTTE - neither organisation regarded as beacons of reliability or integrity. The brave souls who try and keep the independent Jaffna papers running, thus ensuring that the deprived and traumatised population gets independent information, suffer constant intimidation, threats and deaths. Each of these deaths is greeted with "shock and sadness" by the Government who then immediately call for an enquiry. So far, to the best of my knowledge, not one of these crimes has been solved or anyone called to account. In Colombo, a city that is locked down with military checkpoints and virtually under siege, it seems extraordinary that unknown assailants can kill with impunity and escape justice, unless there is some degree of complicity. This I fear will be the legacy of Lasantha's death. Much noise will be made and there will be much made of instituting immediate enquiries but in the end, like Macbeth, it will be full of sound and fury signifying nothing. Investigative editor, TV personality and public figure, Lasantha Wickrematunge has been gunned down and the country mourns for a voice silenced and a pen stilled. His face was familiar and his writings popular. But who was the person behind the pen........the husband, father, son, brother, friend and colleague. Through these pictures, we try to capture the many facets of Lasantha. Lasantha with his parents and brother Lal



Odissi dance troupe to perform hereThe Chitrasena Vajira Dance Foundation presents 'Nrityagram', the international Odissi dance sensation from India, at the Lionel Wendt on January 17 and 18. Following their highly acclaimed tour of the United States, they will be performing for the first time in Sri Lanka. The Nrityagram Dance Ensemble is regarded as one of the foremost dance companies of India and they have performed extensively around the globe. Although steeped in and dedicated to ancient practice, Nrityagram dancers are also involved in carrying Indian dance into the 21st century. "Nrityagram is the best Indian classical company to come to this area in a long time. It's confident. It's cutting edge. It's a winner!" said The Washington Post while The Hindu was equally enthusiastic:"The dancers from Nrityagram stormed the bastion of dance, wowing the knowledgeable audience into a standing ovation!" The event celebrates the birth anniversary of the father of Sri Lankan dance – Guru Chitrasena. All proceeds will go towards the rebuilding of the Chitrasena Kalayathanaya. The Nrityagram Dance Ensemble comprises Manasi Tripathy, Rasmi Raj, Pavithra Reddy, Bijayini Satpathy and Surupa Sen. The music is composed by Pandit Raghunath Panigrahi, Nrityagram's founder, Protima Gauri - an exquisite Odissi dancer herself - converted ten acres of farmland into an ideal setting for the study, practice and teaching of classical dance. Reminiscent of ancient ashrams where gurus imparted not only technique but also a philosophy of being, it is a creative space where dancers, musicians and choreographers live together, sharing their skills and developing their art. The dancers study yoga, meditation, the martial arts as well as Sanskrit, mythology and literature. 

 Odissi is one of the oldest dance traditions in the world. Characterized by sensuousness and lyricism, with movements that reflect the motifs of Orissa temple sculpture, it captures drum rhythms, melodies, as well as the poetic meaning of songs taken from the vast canon of Oriya music. It speaks of love and union, between human and divine, transporting viewers to enchanted worlds of magic and spirituality.



Letters to the EditorA lot of noise is being made about oil prices, but no one is talking about the high price of drugs.

 I was in India recently for a two-week holiday. I had forgotten to take my daily medication. I purchased some medicines from a pharmacy in Chennai and noted that the same medicines sell at a very high price in Sri Lanka. In Chennai, the retail price for a bottle of Metaspray is Rs. 171.75 (Indian rupees), while the same medicine sells here for Rs. 686 (Sri Lanka rupees).

On a simple currency conversion, factoring in all costs, the medicine should cost Rs. 430 (171.75 x 2.50), even with CIF, customs duty, taxes etc. The importer makes a profit of more than Rs. 200.

 Another inhaler, Tiova, costs Rs. 290 (Indian rupees), while the price in Sri Lanka is more than Rs. 1,100.

These medicines are for lifetime use for patients like me. We pay a huge amount to fill the importers' pockets. We do not know the importers' profit margin on expensive medicines.

Drug importers and distributors in this country make a huge profit, and a part of this profit is distributed among medical professionals by way of sponsorship and overseas trips (your newspaper has run a series of articles in this connection).

We are giving publicity to high petrol and gas prices, but ignoring the prices of drugs. Will the Consumer Protection Authority or the concerned company please explain?



AppreciationsParents are gifts from God, and godparents are gifts of the church.

Together with my parents, my godparents were a gift and a blessing from God. They were persons of deep and living faith. Today I remember my godmother, who was called from this life two years ago to enter into her eternal reward.

She was known to everyone as "Dottie". As a person of deep faith, she saw every situation through faith and entered into every experience with complete trust in God, seeking His will.

It was faith and prayer that moved her in life. She became the mother of a bishop. She understood well the value of the Holy Mass. Distance did not deter her.

From Lunawa or Katukurunda, she would travel to St. Sebastian's Church, Moratuwa for daily morning mass. She and her husband drew strength from God to bring up her children to love God. She told me often: "I pray daily a rosary for the three of you [her bishop son and her two godchildren]."

She rendered service quietly, distributing Roman Catholic literature to help others in their faith. On this, the second anniversary of her death, may God grant her the fullness of life with Him in His kingdom.



Letters to the EditorAt the next general election, the ordinary voter will face a dilemma. The choice before him is to vote for either the SLFP or the UNP (the other minor political parties are aligned to one or the other of these two main parties). We do not see any major differences between the policies of the two main parties. At least on major national issues, they seem to hold the same view. But the average voter is not happy with the way both these parties have been feathering their nests while in power. Neither party seems to want to reduce their huge official salaries, allowances and numerous perks. They are waiting to draw their pension the moment they complete their five years in office, a privilege not enjoyed by everyone. Voting for a political party at a general election is not like casting a preference vote. In the latter instance, you show your preference for one over the other. But at a general election you should vote for the political party you consider best capable of managing the country, in everyone's best interest. But if you cannot identify one such party, how will you cast an honest vote? Is this not a dilemma? The voter who votes for a party whose conduct he cannot fully support is cheating himself and indirectly aiding and abetting the continuance of nepotism, corruption and bad governance.



AppreciationsIt is with profound appreciation that I recall my memories of Alec Robertson, whom I knew for nearly 25 years. My association with him was inspiring, challenging and a source of much spiritual and intellectual satisfaction. The more I recall Alec Robertson, the more questions I am led to ask about Buddhism. I think of the exquisite personality that made Alec unique. What better way to spend one's life than in investigating the intricacies of Buddhism, a broad dynamic field with shifting emphases and new discoveries. Alec filled me with enthusiasm for Buddhism. He shared new ideas and corrected faulty ones. I owe a debt of gratitude for what I learnt from him. His extempore lectures, here and abroad, were acclaimed for their spiritual and worldly wisdom. He successfully maintained the live lecture format. His aim was to stimulate thought, while teaching a view point that was helpful. His preaching placed Buddhism in the broader context of Sri Lanka culture. His lectures generated a wide range of practical applications of Buddhism; they helped promote emotional stability, accelerate learning, break unwanted habits, overcome fear, and build self-esteem. He was a consummate narrator to children. He used no tricks of oratory. He addressed the audience in general conversational tones, the smile coming and going on his mobile, expressive face. His lecture schedule was epic. He was also capable of addressing general audiences with simplicity and direction. Alec Robertson dedicated his life to spreading the word of Buddhism. He was a talented broadcaster, journalist, writer and narrator. He beautifully elucidated the meaning of the path to Enlightenment. His lucid style provided a most accessible introduction to Buddhism. His writings provided inspiring and valuable insights, while conveying a picture of his personal life, his wide-ranging knowledge and his thoughts on issues of global concern. Mr. Robertson lucidly expounded all the suttas, and even the Abhidhamma. He appealed to people to look within, to know the Four Esential Truths, the essence of Buddhism. He showed how the Buddhist philosophy of impermanence, suffering and egolessness can blend with one's life. He looked at Buddhism in a new way. His life was a consuming quest for knowledge and wisdom. Mr. Robertson must rank as one of Sri Lanka's finest broadcasters in English on Buddhism. His exemplary life will inspire us to be better human beings. Alec Robertson was polite, but there was steel too. He was firm, assertive and confident. He will be remembered for his iron-will, profound wisdom, selfless service, purity, magnetic personality and exemplary teaching methods. He had intellectual integrity, moral earnestness and spiritual insight. He was a true Buddhist – one who had relationships, friendships, marriage, family and an eminent life.



On a cheese trailIn and around the small town of Gruyeres in the French-speaking part of Switzerland, the village cheese dairies still manufacture a speciality cheese according to the traditional ancestral recipe, handed down over centuries. Produced since 1115 AD, this cheese was given the name Gruyere in 1602. In 2001, it was awarded 'Appellation d'Origine Controlee' (AOC) status, an indication of its quality and origin. Cheese-making in Switzerland is based on age-old traditions and methods and Swiss cheese enjoys a reputation as a natural product of superior quality. At the House of Gruyere (La Maison du Gruyere), visitors are given a full description of the manufacturing process on individual headsets. Specially targeted to interest children, a cow named Cerise, tells the story of how her milk ends up as cheese. The cheese is manufactured under strict hygienic conditions with visitors viewing the scene from a glass-fronted gallery. Milk being the basic raw material for the cheese, special care is taken to ensure the quality of the milk. The cows that provide the milk for the production Gruyere AOC are fed with natural fodder. Chemical additives are forbidden. Farmers deliver the milk twice a day to the cheese dairy. Production begins at 8.20 a.m. with several thousand litres of milk being poured into two copper vats after weighing. Twelve litres of milk are needed to produce one kilo of cheese. The cheese-maker adds the starter cultures to mature the milk. These are whey-based lactic leavens cultivated in the dairy itself. When maturity is reached, the natural rennet is poured in. It contains the enzymes that curdle the milk. This process of curdling becomes visible after about 40 minutes. As soon as the milk mass takes on a gelatinous appearance, the curd-cutting operation takes place. By turning three large curd rakes, the curds in the vat are gently separated into grains. This process takes about seven minutes. The cheese-maker's eye determines exactly when to cut the curd, which is an important stage in the production. The curds and whey are gradually heated for about 45 minutes and the texture of cheese checked. The curds are pumped through clean, shining pipes into stainless steel moulds with plastic covers. Ten to twelve moulds are lined up in two rows, awaiting the curds. Below the moulds, a large tub collects the whey that drains from the moulds. This will later be used as pig food. The curd is packed into the moulds. The cheese-maker unscrews the pipes and removes the plastic covers. Identification marks are placed on the surface of the white mass. The cheese-maker quickly takes up each wheel of cheese and places them on the press. By 9.30 a.m., the ten or twelve daily wheels of Gruyere AOC produced are in the cheese press. Until noon they are pressed at a pressure gradually increased from 300 to 900 kg. Each wheel of cheese is identified by a 'casein' mark showing the number of the mould and the cheese dairy. The day and month of production are also indicated. The name Gruyere AOC is stamped on the heel of each Gruyere wheel to prevent illegal copies and guarantee authenticity. After 20 hours in the pressing, the wheels of cheese, freshly turned out, are immersed for 24 hours in a salt-water baths with 22% salt. In the baths, they absorb half of the final salt content. The work of the cheese-maker continues to the last day of storage in a climate controlled cellar. The slow maturing process in the cellars breaks down the casein lipids into easily digestible amino-acids. This gives the smooth creamy creamy texture of the cheese. It takes several more months to acquire their full flavour. The final stages of maturing continue in cellars. Finally, the quality-tested cheeses go on the market for sale. A visit to Gruyere, however, is not complete without a look at the picturesque Gruyere village with its cobbled streets and the Chateau de Gruyere, a medieval castle that stands on a hill, overlooking the village. The castle and village are packed with restaurants and cafes offering traditional food items such as cheese fondue, using Gruyere cheese and many interesting souvenir shops.



ICRC hand for a mission for feet in JaffnaThe Jaffna Jaipur Centre for Disability Rehabilitation, established in 1987 by the Friend in Need Society in cooperation with the Mothers' Front, helps conflict victims and people with physical disabilities return to a normal life by providing them with orthopaedic devices. Among its beneficiaries are people who had lost limbs in accidents and those who suffered from congenital or acquired disabilities, including polio and club foot. The centre also caters to the needs of people who lose their limbs in landmine blasts. The estimated number of mines in Sri Lanka is 600,000 to two million, a large proportion of them in the Jaffna peninsula. Of more than 1,750 patients registered at the centre, about 1,000 are war wounded while some 650 are landmine victims. Between 1987 and 2006, the centre supplied some 4,000 prostheses, with some 2, 000 of them being landmines victims. Before the centre was established, patients had to go all the way to Colombo, making treatment inaccessible and costly. The Jaffna centre is the only facility providing prosthetic and orthotic devices and orthopaedic services in the northern peninsula. K. Uthayarani, a 30-year-old polio victim had little mobility in either leg. But she did not allow this to stop her from working as a seamstress. The visit to the centre came as a turning point in Uthayarani's life. "I needed help even for basic personal care, but now I will be able to do it all by myself," she said beaming as she gingerly took her first steps with the new orthotic device. The ICRC began assisting the centre in 1994. Following a break, from 2003 to 2007, it resumed its assistance to the centre. It provides financial, logistical and material support and equipment for the production of orthopaedic appliances. It also offers technical expertise in physiotherapy and orthoprosthetics, management support and staff training. Initially, technology developed in the state of Jaipur in India was used at the centre to produce orthopaedic devices. Using local raw material, the Jaipur technology provided a quick and cost-effective way of making artificial limbs to suit individual needs. In 1999, with ICRC funding, the centre began using the polypropylene technology, making it possible to produce prostheses out of plastic sheets instead of aluminum. The advantage of this is that it prevents skin damage and allows for a snug fit because of better alignment with the natural limb. The centre holds a free monthly clinic where the Jaffna Hospital's consultant orthopaedic surgeon sees special cases.



A love affair with LankaIt is often said that a picture speaks a thousand words and 'People Sri Lanka', Tom Tidball's new book showcases his all encompassing passion for the island reflected in the spectacular collection of over 165 stunning photos that capture the cultural diversity and uniqueness of the people of Sri Lanka collected over the past 30 years. "Through the years, my relationship with Sri Lanka has grown into a bizarre love affair, rocky most of the time but marvellous all the time. She has uprooted me, spun me around and left me groping for a non-existent familiar frame of reference..." writes Tidball, eloquently putting into words the romance of his images. His lens captures the local people across a spectrum of actions and emotions. "The event of collecting an image in a photograph is a relatively modern phenomenon. The shock of seeing a person 'captured' two dimensionally has led some cultures to resist being photographed altogether, believing it somehow snatches the soul and robs the essence of the person. Maybe this notion influenced the phrase of "having one's picture taken". I don't totally dismiss the idea, for if "the eye is the window to the soul", then a good portrait reveals at least something of the true inner person," Tidball writes. The masterful writings about Sri Lanka by Christopher Ondaatje and R.K. de Silva hold the reader's interest. Happy, sad, desolate, enthusiastic...the reader encounters all these contrasting emotions in the book. Priced at Rs. 3,990, People Sri Lanka was launched last week at the Bayleaf restaurant.



AppreciationsDevasiri Perera, retired headmaster, Panagoda Maha Vidyalaya, passed away recently. He was born in Kindelpitiya, Bandaragama and later lived in Pannipitiya. Even as a teacher, he worked as a radio artist and participated in teledramas.

After his retirement, he became a social worker. He served as president of the Pension Society Pannipitiya for a long period. He also played a prominent role in helping to maintain Buddhist temples in the area. He used his wealth to develop the Vidyalankara Privena, Pannipitiya.

Mr. Devasiri Perera was an exemplary man. I have never seen him angry. He extended a helping hand to all the welfare societies in the area.

His wife and their four children continue his good work. I knew Mr. Perera for nearly 25 years. 

 We have lost a good friend and a great social worker in the area.

May he attain the Supreme Bliss of Nibbana.



Colombo showcases a passion for fashionThe HSBC Colombo Fashion Week 2009 will showcase 14 collections designed and created by Sri Lankan designers presenting their Spring /Summer '09-'10 collections. Fahad (Middle Finger), Yolande Aluvihare, Kanchana (KT), Charini, Sonali White, Darshi Keerthisena (Buddhi Batiks), Sarani, Prabhat, Asanga, Paul and Nadini are among the chosen few, while seven designers from the sub-continent will complement the Sri Lankan designers' work.

The HSBC Colombo Fashion Week is organized in association with Taj Samudra Colombo and will be held on February 19, 20 and 21. Launched in 2003 with the aim of uplifting the Sri Lankan fashion design industry by creating a platform and providing opportunities for designers to showcase their collections, the 2009 event will also see a strategic partnership between the Sri Lanka Tourism Promotion Bureau (SLTPB) and CFW, take this event to a higher level.

The event's success has led to offers of collaboration from other fashion weeks in Asia. " We are on a strong progress path and we don't want to lose focus; if we work on developing the event further, more offers will follow, but that's not the success criteria," said Ajai Singh, Founder of Colombo Fashion Week. "The success criteria is Sri Lankan designers finding overseas markets and becoming commercially successful."

"In Sri Lanka, our challenge is to build an infrastructure to uplift the fashion design industry. Strong collections are essential in targeting consumers giving a reason for retailers to stock the garments in their stores," said Singh.

Colombo Fashion Week runs a technical studio parallel to the event itself training and guiding new and existing Sri Lankan designers with retail potential, to understand the dynamics of ready-to-wear fashion and its commercial prospects.

The HSBC CFW 2009 will be covered by 12 international media houses and will also be inviting retail buyers from India. The event will be open to invitees only.



AppreciationsMy dear friend Elanga Devapriya Wikramanayake passed away from our midst last month. He was at the time of his death over three score years and ten, but during the last two decades of his life was stricken by an illness which many believed was not properly diagnosed, but which he bore bravely and with great fortitude. At first, despite the seriousness of his illness through sheer determination, he bore it up so courageously and fought back so hard that he was able to resume his professional work for some time. In this he was blessed with the devoted love, care, and nursing of his wife Sunethra and children. He belonged to a distinguished family of lawyers and very appropriately acquired recognition at a very young age as Solicitor General and was bestowed the title of Deshamanya, and such honours come by rarely. ED as everyone knows was the son of a very famous lawyer E.B.Wikramanayake Q.C. who passed away a few years ago. ED triumphed in fighting his illness in a most remarkable way and was able to resume some of his former activities which he loved so much including visits to the jungle, and driving a specially modified jeep to the astonishment of many of his friends. He was a great marksman (winning the Governor-General's Cup for rifle shooting at the young age of nineteen) and an enthusiastic angler. ED and I were associated on opposite sides on many occasions and I have always found him to be a gentleman and worthy opponent at the Bar. He was leading for the Crown in the Criminal Justice Commission and I was defending notable personalities. Although convicted by the Commission, they were all acquitted when the new Government of the UNP came into office. In consequence some of the persons involved who were powerful political figures made life and promotions difficult for ED and he himself resolved to resign from the department bringing to an end a distinguished career. Needless to say he had one of the most acute minds in legal analysis at the Bar and there were many who consulted him on legal questions in difficult matters when he reverted to the unofficial Bar. ED in his style of advocacy was remarkable in that his submissions were short and to the point. He was highly respected when in active practice and a model for young lawyers to follow – because he disdained any flamboyance in the presentation of his case. He and his wife Sunethra celebrated 50 years of marriage a few years ago and they enjoyed the pleasures of a large happy family. Many who knew him at the Bar valued his friendship and admired his integrity. We thank God for his life and memory.



On a cheese trailIn and around the small town of Gruyeres in the French-speaking part of Switzerland, the village cheese dairies still manufacture a speciality cheese according to the traditional ancestral recipe, handed down over centuries. Produced since 1115 AD, this cheese was given the name Gruyere in 1602. In 2001, it was awarded 'Appellation d'Origine Controlee' (AOC) status, an indication of its quality and origin. Cheese-making in Switzerland is based on age-old traditions and methods and Swiss cheese enjoys a reputation as a natural product of superior quality. At the House of Gruyere (La Maison du Gruyere), visitors are given a full description of the manufacturing process on individual headsets. Specially targeted to interest children, a cow named Cerise, tells the story of how her milk ends up as cheese. The cheese is manufactured under strict hygienic conditions with visitors viewing the scene from a glass-fronted gallery. Milk being the basic raw material for the cheese, special care is taken to ensure the quality of the milk. The cows that provide the milk for the production Gruyere AOC are fed with natural fodder. Chemical additives are forbidden. Farmers deliver the milk twice a day to the cheese dairy. Production begins at 8.20 a.m. with several thousand litres of milk being poured into two copper vats after weighing. Twelve litres of milk are needed to produce one kilo of cheese. The cheese-maker adds the starter cultures to mature the milk. These are whey-based lactic leavens cultivated in the dairy itself. When maturity is reached, the natural rennet is poured in. It contains the enzymes that curdle the milk. This process of curdling becomes visible after about 40 minutes. As soon as the milk mass takes on a gelatinous appearance, the curd-cutting operation takes place. By turning three large curd rakes, the curds in the vat are gently separated into grains. This process takes about seven minutes. The cheese-maker's eye determines exactly when to cut the curd, which is an important stage in the production. The curds and whey are gradually heated for about 45 minutes and the texture of cheese checked. The curds are pumped through clean, shining pipes into stainless steel moulds with plastic covers. Ten to twelve moulds are lined up in two rows, awaiting the curds. Below the moulds, a large tub collects the whey that drains from the moulds. This will later be used as pig food. The curd is packed into the moulds. The cheese-maker unscrews the pipes and removes the plastic covers. Identification marks are placed on the surface of the white mass. The cheese-maker quickly takes up each wheel of cheese and places them on the press. By 9.30 a.m., the ten or twelve daily wheels of Gruyere AOC produced are in the cheese press. Until noon they are pressed at a pressure gradually increased from 300 to 900 kg. Each wheel of cheese is identified by a 'casein' mark showing the number of the mould and the cheese dairy. The day and month of production are also indicated. The name Gruyere AOC is stamped on the heel of each Gruyere wheel to prevent illegal copies and guarantee authenticity. After 20 hours in the pressing, the wheels of cheese, freshly turned out, are immersed for 24 hours in a salt-water baths with 22% salt. In the baths, they absorb half of the final salt content. The work of the cheese-maker continues to the last day of storage in a climate controlled cellar. The slow maturing process in the cellars breaks down the casein lipids into easily digestible amino-acids. This gives the smooth creamy creamy texture of the cheese. It takes several more months to acquire their full flavour. The final stages of maturing continue in cellars. Finally, the quality-tested cheeses go on the market for sale. A visit to Gruyere, however, is not complete without a look at the picturesque Gruyere village with its cobbled streets and the Chateau de Gruyere, a medieval castle that stands on a hill, overlooking the village. The castle and village are packed with restaurants and cafes offering traditional food items such as cheese fondue, using Gruyere cheese and many interesting souvenir shops.



Art lovers, it's another Kala PolaThe popular 'Kala Pola', Sri Lanka's annual open air art fair will come alive on Sunday, January 25 at 10 a.m.

The venue is once again the pavements of Ananda Coomarasamy Mawatha in Colombo 7, opposite the National Art Gallery.

Conceptualized by the George Keyt Foundation, the first Kala Pola was held in 1993 with 35 artists. It has since become an important annual event on the national cultural calendar and draws over 350 artists and sculptors who wish to display their work. George Keyt was one of Sri Lanka's foremost artists and poets and the George Keyt Foundation was founded within his lifetime to perpetuate his work as well as promote the works of other talented and aspiring artists.

The Kala Pola is being sponsored for the 16th consecutive year by John Keells Holdings as part of its corporate social responsibility.

Kala Pola 2009 will start at 10 a.m. on January 25 and will continue throughout the day, bringing a kaleidoscope of colour, sights and sounds to the heart of Colombo until dusk settles over the city.



Letters to the EditorA bus I was travelling in recently stopped at the new Bibile bus stand. We were told the bus would stop for 10 minutes. I ran in search of a toilet but could not find one. I asked a police constable where the closest toilet was, but he could not help me. I asked another person, who said the toilet was in the market on the opposite side of the road. By then five minutes had passed, and I decided I would endure my discomfort. When I asked why there were no toilets at the Bibile bus stand, I was told that the authorities had changed their plans and converted the toilets into vendors' stalls.



Letters to the EditorI read with great admiration former Ambassador Bandu de Silva's article, "Illuminating Sigiriya and blinding our Cultural Heritage" (December 20). It was a cogently argued condemnation of the scheme to launch a "Son et Lumiere" (sound and light) project on Sigiriya Rock. His main argument was that it would damage the environment and threaten a world heritage site. Former Archaeological Commissioner Dr. Raja de Silva, who is both a scientist and archaeologist, has proved in his book "Sigiriya and its Significance" that Sigiriya was neither a king's palace nor a fortress but a Mahayana-Theravada Buddhist monastery. To deceive tourists with the myth that Sigiriya was a palace or a fortress is an insult to our heritage. A "son et lumiere" show will certainly cost a lot of money, and wherever there is a lot of money for spending, there is likely to be corruption. Referring to Dr. de Silva's book on Sigiriya, Professor Richard Gombrich of Oxford University said: "It is quite rare in Buddhist studies for anyone to come up with a discovery of this magnitude and certitude."

 Desamanya Dr. Nissanka Wijeyeratne writes: "Verily, this work of de Silva has dispelled doubts and vague conjectures on Sigiriya, and built up a coherent and cogent interpretation of this great centre, which never was the abode of a 'God King' but for a long and significant period the resting place of a great and noble protectress of humans and a Mother of all Bodhisattvas." No professional archaeologist or historian has refuted, in writing, Dr. de Silva's revolutionary thesis. In these circumstances, it would be brash for a bureaucrat to propose a cultural show based on falsity. The whole country would be exposed to ridicule. Journalists and the general public should raise their voices and kill this crazy scheme before it goes too far.



