Cora's many coloursIt's not just a home but a house full of works of art, each and every piece with a story of its own – unique in its own right."This table," says vivacious Cora de Lang, gently touching the low coffee table in her home down Rosmead Place, was crafted especially for the Lang family by a Nigerian sculptor while her husband, Richard (now the Director of the German Cultural Institute in Sri Lanka) was serving there, with the signature of the artiste et al. But we are in her home not to talk about the works of other artists but of Cora herself. Having had the "inclination" from childhood, for Cora art comes from the subconscious.....never does she draw and re-draw, it is straight onto the canvas and that's it. And as in her childhood, canvases for this time's exhibition will take the viewer by surprise. Boxes, laughs Cora, of different shapes and sizes. Whereas, in childhood the boxes were factory rejects from the family business which turned out cartons for different items ranging from shoes to chocolates and champagne, this time's exhibition would mainly comprise perfume boxes. "We began recycling all those years ago," she says, adding that Papa always brought the rejects home and would straighten out the boxes so that she could use them as her canvases. An inveterate hoarder, Cora has been collecting all the perfume boxes and has aptly named her current exhibition 'Pandora's Box'. The mythical story of Pandora need not be retold but that is life, according to Cora and perfume also be it a Dior or a Kenzo reflects seduction, lure........that too is part of life. You smell it, you love it, it is beautiful, but it is impermanent. Cora quickly adds that she does not moralise through her paintings, she just presents what her subconscious brings forth. It's a "subtle" message to make you think, is how she likes to put it. "The world is like a big body with lots of cells. Art is like the good cells. There are some cells which are sick. But art would help overcome the sick cells," she says. Cora's encounter not only with painting, but also colour came early, as a little girl, growing up amidst a "family of artists" in Buenos Aires in Argentina. "My parents were not artists, my aunts were," says Cora.

 Later her travels across the world to Germany to study German where she met and married Richard, from then on accompanying him on his postings to India, Nigeria, Mexico and Sri Lanka, she feels have enriched her personally as well as her art. Cora talks with reverence about Buddhism such an integral part of Sri Lanka; with fascination about the exotic caves deep down in the earth sacred to the Mayans in Mexico and feels an affinity towards them as her "great-grandmother had that blood" and adds in muted tones about the time in Nigeria when her emotions poured out onto the canvas that now hangs in her husband's Colombo office. Bloodshed and mayhem were the order of the day in Nigeria and Cora and family were literally "behind bars" for their own safety. "Have you heard of the African 'Wailing Drum', she asks and says, "looking through the bars which surrounded our home, I could see this wall made of ugly concrete blocks and geckos and lizards would come out to sun themselves. I drew that and through it the faces of the suffering people." The painting is named, 'Talking Wall'. Back to Pandora's Box, the emotion comes through when she speaks of two paintings – the best friend of her mother's and her mother's. For the first she has used a box of Calvin Klein, a perfume that the mother's friend loved and her photo. "That old lady was very upbeat until I spoke to her last on the phone and she said she was not feeling too well. Five days later she was dead. "Cora's mother also died a few months later, in May last year and she was with her to say goodbye. In tribute Cora has collected all the name tags on her mother's clothes and a dainty little bag her mother used in her last days and made up a painting along with a digital image of her rosary which she titles 'Beyond Paradise' but she has not had the heart to include her photo. "Not just yet," says Cora....the emotions are too much. Boxes, bags and much more 'Pandora's Box' will run from January 18-February 9 (Monday to Wednesday 10.30 a.m.- 5.00 p.m. & Sunday 11.00 a.m.- 4.30 p.m.) at the Theertha Red Dot Gallery, 36, Baddegana Road South, Pita Kotte.

 The paintings will comprise large banner-like paintings, digital photo collages, 'lady' paper bags and flight bags. The 'lady' paper bags are unique to say the least with guns and flowers, purdah-covered mascara eyes......with the eyes so tough.



Writing to make others thinkWith a smile that lights up the room, Ameena Hussein tells me that she is feeling lucky. This is a happy portent for an author who spent 2008 struggling with cancer and her first novel. It helps that 'The Moon in the Water' is already highly anticipated – its path has been paved by its inclusion in the long-list for the first Man Asia Literary Award. It is on the eve of the book launch on Wednesday that I find myself in Ameena's apartment right over the garage that houses the offices of the Perera Hussein Publishing House, which Ameena co-owns with her husband Sam Perera. She will be the first to tell you that the modest size of their cosy apartment is indicative of how publishing isn't quite all it's cracked up to be, but one thing seems certain, Ameena is doing what she loves best. She is tired today but laughter, as always, comes easily to her. Much of her delight finds its roots in her first novel. Her previous publications, 'Fifteen' (shortlisted for the Gratiaen Prize in 1999) and 'Zillij' (winner of the State Literary Award 2005) were both collections of short stories. "I needed to get my short stories out of the way," she says, confessing that having made the leap into writing novels she might never look back. She is uncharacteristically cagey about her new book, and will only say that it tells the story of a young, spunky Muslim girl who returns to spend some time with her family after her father dies in a bomb blast. "She discovers a secret that the family has been holding and it derails her," says Ameena, explaining that this secret must now be investigated, and the consequences dealt with. 'The Moon in the Water' brings together elements from both 'Fifteen' and 'Zillij' as the author continues to explore her Islamic heritage from a strong feminist viewpoint. But this is a far more mature, more sophisticated Ameena than we have seen previously. By her own estimation, she has become more exacting and reveals that she has spent many months polishing the book, until "every sentence, every chapter is perfect...or as perfect as possible." The novel is a labour of love in that Ameena intended it to be "a documentation of culture; my culture, my community, and in a way my history...for a time when people will not have it." Ameena has long held that she writes simply to make people think, and 'The Moon in the Water 'will be no different – "I think this book will make a lot of people think, especially about Islam; part of this is making people say, they are (the Muslim community) not so much the other," she says referring to what she calls "our little gems of cultural cohabitation." She does this even as she explores the other side of the coin – the recent surge of Islamic fundamentalism. "All writing is political," expounds Ameena, sharing the hard won wisdom of many years. "I used to describe myself when I first started writing - I was 27, now I'm 44 – as someone who was not a political writer. 'I just write these tiny stories,' I would say, but I was trained as a sociologist and you can't help but see the world in a kind of analytical way." That she is a sociologist first, and a writer second is a charge that has been laid on her doorstep by some critics, but Ameena holds that it is innate, her way of viewing the world. When asked if the same might be said about 'The Moon in the Water' she voices her hope that her approach here is "more balanced." Later she admits with a laugh to being "constantly beset with doubts." Writing, she has come to realise, requires no small amount of courage and determination. This is particularly true of this book. Having been diagnosed with Non Hodgkin's Lymphoma in her chest in June last year, Ameena underwent a gruelling course of chemotherapy that often left her too ill to write. "There was a fear that I wouldn't live to finish it, I did fear that, and I thought it would be a pity," she says, eyes twinkling. Determined to make her book an "up" book despite not always feeling quite so positive, she eventually re-wrote the epilogue so that it now "ends on a note of hope, there are endless possibilities." The same seems true of Ameena, who having survived her trial by fire is still waiting for the final verdict on whether her cancer is in remission. In many ways, she has come into her own. She is passionate about her work, and is not shy about being labelled a writer rooted in her Islamic heritage. Increasingly, Ameena knows exactly what she wants to say. It's revealing then that she describes the mood of 'The Moon in the Water' as being redolent with love. For Ameena, who credits her family, friends and her many admirers with having helped her through a very difficult illness, there is no emotion quite as important. 'The Moon in the Water' is priced at Rs. 750/- and is available at all leading bookstores.



Stroking to life her imaginationTo her, painting is like meditation - time is of no consequence while she's at her easel. Painting is a world by itself, she says. Ruki Wijeratne has been painting for 21 years and loves the colour that comes with just being in Sri Lanka. Her initial exposure was when her Art Professor Pavel Kobel made her go to the library and read and learn about the Renaissance period when she was studying in Switzerland in 1987. She then furthered her painting skills in Paris and Manila and in 1994 held her first solo exhibition at the World Trade Centre in Geneva. In her forthcoming exhibition 'Splendour in Colours', Ruki displays 42 paintings. This is her first solo exhibition in Sri Lanka, since she came here about ten years ago. She has been studying under Prof. Sarath Chandrajeewa at the Colombo Academy of Arts since 2004. Ruki prefers figurative art and most of her paintings are dominated by faces expressing diversity and ethnicity. Facial expressions are the most difficult to capture in a figurative painting but it is satisfying once you do, she says, adding that there is a vast difference in the colours she's using since she came to the island compared to when she painted using the pastel, calm shades of the Renaissance period. She sets apart a day each week for her painting – spending her time at the Sapumal Foundation painting sans any distraction or talking to other artists. Along with the 42 paintings, she is also displaying a painting of Bougainvilleas that she did especially for her house. It is also the only painting which had taken about seven- eight hours to finish - normally she finishes a painting within four- five hours. Sometimes she takes different pictures and puts them together before painting it to see how it would look but most of the time she relies on her imagination. Once she has a subject in mind she prefers to sit down and finish it at once and watch it come to life with her brushstrokes. Ruki Wijeratne's paintings will be on display at the Harold Pieries Art Gallery of the Lionel Wendt on January 18 from 10 a.m. - 6 p.m.





