What the stars foretellA new year has come round, ending the old, marked by violence, tension and economic drawbacks. What does 2009 hold not only for Sri Lanka but also for its people? The war will end and the country will prosper, says one well-known star-gazer while another says the calm will only be short-lived. Astrologer Wimalasiri Sellaperuma from Panadura is optimistic in the new year. "The country's most pressing problem, the war, will come to an end in September," he says, explaining that August is favourable for the military. However, he warns, that there will be a period of bloodshed with much property being lost as well. In the first six months public property may be destroyed and explosions are likely to take place at some significant locations, he says. Earmarking January 15 to February 13, he points out that even those who are supporting the government could oppose it, while in March and April, not only will there be crossovers from the opposition to the government but also the other way round. "April and May are a dangerous period for a leader," warns Mr. Sellaperuma, adding that June 15 to July 15 will be a relatively calm period for the country. After September, the country will experience prosperity, says Mr. Sellaperuma, with economic growth and an inflow of foreign exchange. Industries and agriculture will flourish. The government will receive the support of opposition parties. In the latter half of the year, Sri Lankan sportsmen and women will achieve great heights in the international arena, he says. People should engage in religious activities, urges Mr. Sellaperuma, advising temples to chant the thun suthra from 5.45 to 6.45 p.m. Aquarius being the zodiac sign for Sri Lanka this year, another astrologer, Chintha Wickremasinghe from Boralasgamuwa predicted gloom until May. There will be an economic crisis with banks being affected. Many intellectuals will leave the country. Violence will escalate and there will be political turmoil. Problems will crop up between relatives engaging in politics, she says. From May 2 to July 30 will be relatively calm with gains at the warfront. "It will seem as if the war is over during this period, but that peace will only be shortlived," she says. The year will also be dotted with elections – in addition to the Provincial Council elections in February, two more polls will take place around May/June and August/September. The public should be vigilant. They should be careful of water, fire and road accidents, she warned. Solar eclipses on January 26 and July 22 and lunar eclipses on February 9, July 7 and August 6 will have a negative impact on the country. On the brighter side, there would be achievements in the field of arts and sports, infrastructure development and foreign aid flow, she added.



Galle beckons book loversIt's 2009 and all book lovers are counting the days to the Literary Festival which will be held from January 28 to February 1 in Galle with a galaxy of literary figures both local and foreign billed to attend.

 Here's a brief look at some of the authors who'll be at the Galle Literary Festival: Award winning children's writer and former Children's Laureate from 2003-2005, Michael Morpurgo has written over 100 books for children including 'Private Peaceful', 'Kenuske's Kingdom', 'Alone on a Wide Wide Sea' and 'War Horse'. He has travelled all over the world talking to children about his work and encouraging them to tell their own stories. His latest novel is Kaspar, Prince of Cats, the story of a cat that survives the Titanic. Internationally renowned poet Anne Ranasinghe has also published short stories, essays and translations. Escaping from Nazi Germany to England, she married a Sri Lankan professor and became a citizen of Ceylon in 1956. Drawing from her own life experiences, her writing has been described as "vibrantly sensuous or stark and deeply moving". The Holocaust is a recurring theme in her poetry and is contrasted with Sri Lanka's violent past as in 'July 1983'. She has won numerous local and international awards including the Sri Lanka Arts Council Prize for Poetry in 1985 and 1992 and for Non-Fiction in 1987. In 1994, she won the State Literary Award for Best Collection of Short Stories.



A century of groundbreaking community work by Sri Lanka Tamil Women's UnionThe Sri Lanka Tamil Women's Union celebrates its centenary today. Inaugurated on January 4, 1909, the organisation was set up to encourage the Tamil community to preserve and promote Tamil culture. Tamil civilisation and culture is one of the oldest in the world, and the union has consistently endeavoured to keep alive a love and interest in this ancient heritage. An English-medium education was a boon to the Tamil community of the north and the east. It opened up avenues of advancement and brought members of the Tamil community out of their traditional homeland to seek their fortune in government service and in the professional fields. This happened during the British period of colonial rule and linked together the Tamils, the Sinhalese, the Muslims and the Burghers as Ceylonese and as a nation. This historic photograph records the visit of the Nehru family to Sri Lanka when they met up with the Sri Lanka Tamil Women's Union in 1932. Picture shows Jawaharlal Nehru, Kamala Devi Chatopaudia (next to Nehru, partly covered), Kamala Nehru (wife of Jawaharlal who has her head covered), Indira Nehru (later Gandhi -- seated seventh from the right) and Sarojini Naidu (fifth from the right). The education of Tamil women and their emergence from the seclusion of their homes over the past century have brought about far-reaching changes in the social pattern of this country. Educated women in the colonial era were taking their place in society and in the life of the emerging nation, not only as wives and mothers but also as teachers, doctors and lawyers. In the early 1900s, a Canadian lady, Dr. Mary Helen Irwin Rutnam, arrived in Ceylon. Dr. Mary Irwin was in New York on a medical apprenticeship, where she met a Jaffna Tamil Christian, Samuel Christmas Kanaga-Rutnam, who was doing postgraduate studies at Princeton University. They married in 1896, and the couple came to live in Colombo and Jaffna. Practising as a gynaecologist in Colombo, Dr. Irwin Rutnam had an opportunity to observe the plight of women in Ceylon society. She consequently founded the Girls' Friendly Society, whose mission was to work for the welfare of the country's under-privileged women. Dr. Mary Rutnam saw many young Tamil ladies from Jaffna and the east, married to professionals, move to homes in Colombo and establish their new place in society. Inspired and encouraged by Dr. Rutnam, a group of these women founded the Ceylon Tamil Women's Union. A distinctive feature of the Sri Lanka Tamil Women's Union is that it is a secular organisation. From the outset, it attracted Tamils who are Hindu, Protestant Christian and Catholic as active members.

 With the dawn of independence and the cultural renaissance that followed, the Ceylon Tamil Women's Union launched the Kalalaya School of Dance and Music, on September 1, 1948. This "temple of art", was a dream come true for the re-named Sri Lanka Tamil Women's Union. In the early years Kalalaya was a pioneer institution for teaching oriental dancing in Ceylon, conducting classes in Bharatha Natyam, Manipuri, Kathak and Kathakali. This School of Dance and Music celebrates its diamond jubilee this year. Extracts from 'The History of the Sri Lanka Tamil Women's Union' by Indira Sathasivam, past president, SLTWU



Haven for birds in warVankalai, in the Mannar district, with its numerous bird species has been declared a sanctuary by the Department of Wild Life Conservation (DWLC), a first in the area since the armed conflict erupted in the north several decades ago. Very rare migrants: Exclusive photographs of the Spot-billed Mother Duck with a gaggle of ducklings and a couple at Vankalai captured by Kithsiri Gunawardena This sanctuary, partly a Wetland, comprises Puliyantivu island, Tiruketiswaram, Pallimunai, Vankalai and the strips of land on either side of the causeway connecting the island of Mannar to the mainland. Covering about 4,800 hectares, it consists of arid-zone thorn scrubland and pastures, waterholes and tanks, sand dunes, mangroves, salt marshes, lagoons and sea-grass beds and maritime grasslands. The sanctuary declared through a Gazette notification dated September 9, 2008, follows recommendations of the Ceylon Bird Club which has worked tirelessly towards making this a reality. Many birds including the very rare migrants the Spot-billed Duck, the Comb Duck and the Gadwall; the rare migrant Long-toed Stint and the uncommon migrants the Peregrine Falcon, the Common-ringed Plover, Temminck's Stint and the Red-necked Phalarope have been spotted at Vankalai, says Ceylon Bird Club Committee Member Udaya Sirivardana as has also the very rarely recorded 'Eastern' Black-tailed Godwit. Explaining that the Spot-billed Duck may have crossed over from South India, he says that the Ceylon Bird Club has in its possession valuable photographs providing proof that it is in fact breeding in the Vankalai area. A recent rare photograph (see above) taken by a Ceylon Bird Club member shows a mother duck with a gaggle of ducklings behind her at Vankalai. Only about five Spot-billed Ducks had been spotted in the half century before 2003. Thousands of migrant birds arrive in Sri Lanka, making landfall in the Mannar region including Vankalai. Similarly when leaving the country at the end of the season, they use Vankalai as their last staging point, according to Mr. Sirivardana. The Ceylon Bird Club has recorded 149 species of birds at Vankalai, keeping numerous records and meticulous notes, going into the area with the cooperation of the army. Pointing out that at one given time the Ceylon Bird Club has recorded many thousands of birds of one kind, Mr. Sirivardana says that in 2003, it has a record of 5,000 Greater Flamingos being there while the same year there were 95,000 Northern Pintails, 5,000 unidentified ducks, 3,000 Black-tailed Godwits and 10,300 unidentified shorebirds. Explaining that Vankalai has an abundant bird life because many people cannot venture there, the Ceylon Bird Club -- founded in 1943 by seven members including two of Sri Lanka's foremost ornithologists, G.M. Henry and W.W.A. Phillips -- calls upon the DWLC to continue to protect the area once normalcy returns as it was once notorious for duck shooting, although it is prohibited. Laws will have to be strictly enforced to protect this area of great ornithological value, says Mr. Sirivardana, adding that with this record number of birds, Vankalai may qualify to be declared a Ramsar site.



If there's no joy, there's no songThe life of Kishani Jayasinghe can only be described as hectic. Whether she is performing at the Royal Opera House in Covent Garden or flying to and fro to opera houses across the world, Kishani was, is and always will be, a very busy girl. "And I love every moment of it!" she exclaims. One of Kishani's guiding principles is to live life to the fullest and not have any regrets. A brief glimpse at a day in the life of this young opera singer would tell you, however, that she takes the concept of living life to the fullest to a whole new level. Currently attending the Royal Academy of Music, Kishani is also the first Sri Lankan to have performed at the Royal Opera House. Kishani is to perform for her audience at home, on January 9 at 7.30 p.m. at the Lionel Wendt. (Doors will close at 7.25 p.m.) "Singing for an audience that comprises my friends and family is something very special to me," she says. "Yet, it is also a little nerve wracking, in that I feel there is far more pressure on me to pull off a performance that everyone will really enjoy." This, in fact, is part of the pleasure and joy Kishani gets from her singing. "A golden rule I have set for myself," she declares, "is that as long as you sing, you must have that incredible joy of singing – that sense of knowing that you are putting your best into the performance, as well as knowing that your audience enjoys what it hears. For me, if that joy is not there, there is no point in singing." The joy has always been there for Kishani from the time she, as a five-year-old knew the entire musical score of the Sound of Music. "Singing always had a special place in my life from then on," she recalls. Always an active student, Kishani not only sang but was heavily involved in athletics and other extra-curricular activities, in addition to being Head Girl at Visakha Vidyalaya. Trained by Mary Anne David, Kishani never ceases to appreciate the impact her teacher had on her life. "Not only did she bring out the best in me as a performer; she protected my voice and also taught me valuable lessons on the more practical aspects of a performance such as appearance." Appearance, according to Kishani is an important consideration because unlike a performance by a musician – where focus is mainly on the instrument, a singer's "instrument" is inside, and therefore appearance is important to complete the whole package. Describing herself as something of a stability girl, Kishani's first career choice was to be a lawyer. All went well until, while enrolled in an LLM programme at Nottingham University, she was offered a scholarship at the Royal Academy of Music. "It was a huge decision for me to make at the time; I was very keen on the idea but was a little apprehensive of the stability of the job." Having consulted her family who were extremely supportive right from the beginning, she made her decision- to set aside five years in which she would dedicate all her time and effort to singing. "I resolved that if nothing spectacular happened within that period, I would go back to my career as a lawyer." Something spectacular did happen though – a once in a lifetime opportunity to perform where classical music greats have performed, and to perform some of the opera's favourite roles. Her favourite by far though is that of Mimi in La Boheme. "Her role has everything a role could ask for, and I absolutely love the music! My voice is not mature enough to do Mimi justice right now though." Her upcoming concert -- An Evening with Kishani -- will be in four parts.....music from around the world, songs by the operatic heroines of Mozart, Puccini and a surprise element to close the show. Kishani will be accompanied by Christopher Glynn, a brilliant and prolific accompanist. Tickets for the show have already been sold out, and it is safe to say that Colombo now eagerly awaits Kishani's next performance. A recent highlight of Kishani's career was singing at Buckingham Palace at the birthday of Prince Charles on November 23. "It was one of those experiences where you really appreciate the sense of being an ambassador for your country. I was the only one there who was dressed in a saree and the Prince was pleasantly surprised to learn that Sri Lanka has opera singers! And I feel that we have a vast untapped source of talent here that not many people know of," said Kishani. All about the accompanist Christopher Glynn is recognised as an outstanding pianist and accompanist, performing regularly with many leading singers and instrumentalists in concerts, broadcasts and recordings throughout Europe and further afield. He is described by Kishani as having the flair and ability to play almost anything to perfection. He has performed in recital with singers including Sir Thomas Allen, Matthew Best, Claire Booth, Susan Bullock, Sine Bundgaard, Allan Clayton, Ronan Collett, Lucy Crowe, Michael George, Darren Jeffery, Anthony Rolfe Johnson, Jonas Kaufmann, Julie Kennard, Andrew Kennedy, Yvonne Kenny, Rufus Muller, Robert Murray and many more. Chris has also partnered many well-known instrumentalists. Chris made his debut at Wigmore Hall in London in 2001 and has since performed there many times as well as in all the main UK concert halls and in major concert venues and festivals throughout Europe and in the Far East. His many awards include the piano accompaniment prize in the 2001 Kathleen Ferrier competition and the 2003 Gerald Moore award. He is a Professor at the Royal College of Music and an Associate of the Royal Academy of Music; he is also an official pianist for the Queen Elizabeth Competition in Brussels and has an ongoing association with the Samling Foundation.



Lots to see and learn at Vedasa medical exhibitionIf your child falls ill while at home what will you do? If you see a person collapse on the road what measures will you take? This is some of the crucial information you will be able to gather while standing in the queue to buy a ticket to enter 'Vedasa' Medical Exhibition 2009 of the Faculty of Medical Sciences of the University of Sri Jayewardenepura to be held from January 6 – 12 at the BMICH in Colombo. Street dramas and demonstrations will effectively show you how to deal with different kinds of emergencies while you await your ticket to enter the exhibition area and inside would be a wealth of information, leaving you with a memorable experience. "Our Faculty of Medical Sciences is organizing this exhibition to commemorate the Golden Jubilee of the Sri Jayewardenepura University which falls this year. The exhibition is one of many events to be held throughout the year," said Faculty Dean Prof. Jayantha Jayawardana, while Convener/Treasurer Medical Exhibition 2009 Dr. Chitranga Kariyawasam explained, "We are a relatively young Medical Faculty with a short but proud history of 15 years. We have made our mark in the field of medical education having had the distinct honour of our students being placed first in the order of merit for the last 5-6 years. Our graduates have excelled in their post graduate exams here and abroad and are working as eminent consultants in their respective fields." The student-centred exhibition is based on the module system of the new curriculum which commenced in 2006 and would include stalls depicting the normal and abnormal of the central nervous system, cardiovascular, respiratory gastrointestinal, renal, reproductive and special senses. There would also be stalls relating to mental health, malignancies and orthopaedics and trauma. Common diseases like diabetes would be given a special place with communicable diseases such as filariasis, malaria, tuberculosis, leprosy and dengue, chikungunya and other emerging diseases being presented with the help of the respective control programmes and the Epidemiology Unit. Sexually Transmitted Diseases and AIDS along with anti-alcohol and drug abuse will be interestingly presented with powerful messages and dramas, amply supported by the STD/AIDS campaign and the Anti Drug Information Centre (ADIC). The much looked forward to display of dissected bodies and those being dissected will be a separate stall. A stall relating to forensic pathology with display of firearms, bombs and genetics in forensics will be a popular attraction. Taking into consideration the number of snake-bite victims in Sri Lanka, the Nature Club of the faculty in collaboration with the zoo will have several varieties of snakes on display so that people would be able to identify the poisonous ones. A different aspect of the exhibition is 'Vidudaya Nuwanin Suwabara Heta Dawasak' which originated from the students and simply means, 'A better tomorrow from knowledge gained at the Vidyodaya'. Here the exhibition will take the public through a 'journey' of medical wonders, where the public would also have the opportunity of a health check which would include testing of blood pressure, blood group and many more. Tickets are priced at Rs. 20 for children in uniform; Rs. 30 for those not in uniform and Rs. 50 for adults.



Going back on a Tramcar rideWhat triggered my memory was an old (very) studio photo of my childhood self staring glumly at the camera while my infant sister timidly leaned towards me. Proudly embossed at the photo's bottom was "Terminus Studio". I seem to remember this venerable institution yet standing, till the early 1950s, on the triangular corner where Panchikawatta Road turned into Skinner's Road towards Technical College. 

 The 'Terminus' of its name meant the end of the line of the very first tramway before it was later extended to Grandpass. The other establishment to honour this now-forgotten mode of public transport was 'The Tram View Hotel', a rather dingy tea shop opposite the Punchi Borella Bo tree. The name was probably inspired by the spanking new trams of the late 19th century as they first whooshed past the 'hotel' verandah. The 'hotel' retained its name for many years after the last tram clattered to a nameless scrap-yard. As the craze for antiques had not yet taken root, not a single tramcar nor the hotel signboard remains to recall the trams that dominated Colombo's roads, and carried many thousands of commuters, for well over half a century. Tramcars seem to have been introduced into Colombo, not long after London, by a British Mayor in the late 19th century. This was an age when motor cars were unknown, the European elite sped to work in rickshaws drawn by wiry 'coolies' and 'natives' of standing trundled along in ox-drawn buggy carts. Electric tramcars would have been a sensation for the silent speed with which they moved large numbers of people to the far corners of the then 'Garden City of the East'. Although the steam engines of the CGR carried passengers from town to town, there was no mode of public transport within the city till the advent of tramcars. It is difficult to imagine the sensation they would have caused and the panic they struck in rickshawmen and cart-bulls. A few First Class seats up in front were reserved for Europeans – the Master Race. Henry W. Cave (Book of Ceylon 1908) devotes quite a few pages to tram travel as the best way of seeing the sights of scenic and exotic Colombo. The reputed European (what else?) firm of Bousteads owned and operated tramcars under licence from the Municipality. A long arm mounted on the flat roof linked trams to the electricity lines that powered their silent progress. Trams were about the size of a small bus and came in two models. The earliest and commonest, illustrated here, had 10 or 12 long rows of wooden slatted benches in 'toast rack-style' facing forward. The other was rather like a railway compartment with a doorway at the centre, benches along the sides and a ceiling rod for standee passengers to cling to. Some unique features distinguished the "driver's cabin". The driver steered the tramcar while standing. Steering was by an impressive metal tiller with a shining brass knob as a handle. At his feet was the button for the loud bell he clanged to announce halting places and clear the tracks of carts, cyclists and pedestrians. Two broad footboards, one above the other, ran along the length of the tramcar – for the ticket collector's progress and steps for passengers to mount and dismount. Trams were very passenger-friendly and had very short runs between halts. I seem to remember about 10 halts between Maradana Railway Station and Punchi Borella. In the same tradition as the CGR, most tram drivers were burly Burgher gents in impressive khaki uniforms. Ticket collectors were drawn from the 'lesser breeds'. Sadly, there has been no Carl Muller to document the rise and fall of these knights of the tramways. Although I spent the first six years of childhood in Colombo I cannot recollect travelling by tram at all. So it was in 1946, when I left Ratnapura for a school in Colombo, that I first encountered them with goday wonder. But I soon got reasonably adept in hopping on and off without mishap and forking out the requisite five cents! for travel between two halts. Not long after, I experienced the camaraderie of frequent tram travellers. As I clambered on to the tram, a descending traveller pressed an unpunched ticket into my hand as a gesture of solidarity. As the son of a school principal, and not yet wise to the ways of the world, I crumpled his gift and conscientiously paid my five cents to the ticket collector. As time went on I learnt the trick of slyly sliding along my bench seat to the end furthest away from the ticket collector working his way along the footboard on one side of the tram. But this manoeuvre could be accomplished only when there were no other passengers between me and the coveted 'escape seat'. It has to be admitted that such luck was much rarer than the boasts we made of such escapades. For some inexplicable mechanical reason tramway lines/rails were not above ground but embedded below the road surface.This gave rise to interesting phenomena. One was the slippage of rickshaw and bicycle wheels into the embedded rails Once he off-loaded his embarrassed passengers, the rickshawman easily lifted his rickshaw out of the rut and trotted off to the clang of the annoyed tram driver's bell and rude remarks of unruly passengers . The other phenomenon was when a bicycle on a slippery surface wobbled into one of these ruts. Extrication was followed, as usual, by clanging of the driver's bell accompanied by passenger hoots. My brother, who had borrowed my bike, fell victim to this misadventure. No sooner had he pulled his bike out than a cart ran over it to the vast amusement of tram passengers and passers-by. But for a bent spoke or two my sturdy ex-Army war-horse, a relic of jungle warfare gifted by an army uncle,was none the worse for the encounter. My loveliest memory, however, was the wondrous sight when the trams travelled at night over roads that had just been tarred and spread with the requisite layer of sand. As the lighted tram scrunched over this sand it sparkled magically with a myriad sparks. Somewhere in the 1950s, for some mysterious reason, the Municipality decided to scrap Colombo's tramways. Some diehard romantics boarded the last tramcar to Grandpass, decorated it with streamers and balloons, and hired a Kotahena funeral band to dolefully belt out the Funeral March to the tramcar's final halt. Let this brief piece be a requiem for a charming mode of transport and a way of life long lost to belching buses, skittering trishaws and traffic-jammed cars. I sometimes wonder whether, in the dead of night, one can faintly hear the clang of a ghostly bell as a phantom tramcar trundles past the Terminus at Panchikawatte and the Tram View Hotel of Punchi Borella on its way to rusty death.



New frontiers in preventing and treating StrokesThe lives of stroke victims can be saved and the severe debilitation left behind by strokes can also be minimized. Although stroke is a catastrophe, it is not only preventable but also treatable. However, limited facilities for management and rehabilitation in developing countries such as Sri Lanka result in a poorer outcome with higher mortality. Once faced with a stroke 10% die within 30 days, 50% remain disabled after six months and only 30% are functionally independent at one year. But the good news is that tremendous recent advances in understanding the pathogenesis, coupled with the advent of superb non-invasive diagnostic techniques and evidence from randomized clinical trials of effective strategies to prevent and treat stroke, have seen stroke medicine establish itself as one of the "frontiers of medicine" and a multidisciplinary speciality in its own right. Until recently the progress of stroke care was hindered by ignorance, nihilism and negativity both within and outside the medical profession. This has changed in the past few decades. This was the strong message given through the Presidential address at the inauguration of the 2nd annual Scientific Sessions of the Association of Sri Lankan Neurologists and the International Stroke Conference recently. The address on the theme 'A step forward in stroke care in Sri Lanka' by President Dr. Padma Gunaratne was read out as she was unavoidably unable to attend the sessions. In majority of patients, accurate diagnosis of stroke could be made purely based on clinical history. The sudden onset of neurological symptoms is the most important and characteristic feature. Nevertheless, management will depend on whether the patient had a cerebral haemorrhage or an infarction. For instance, infarctions are treated with thrombolytics given within three hours of the onset of symptoms. A significant proportion of infarctions could be prevented by prescribing aspirin and warfarin if the thrombo-embolism is from a cardiac source. Endarterectomy of significant symptomatic carotid stenosis averts recurrent stroke in the carotid territory. Certain venous infarcts need long-term warfarinization. Certain cerebral haemorrhages may need vascular studies for evaluation. The introduction of magnificent radiological investigation in the 1970s -- CT scanning of the brain, was a landmark in stroke care. CT scan of the brain is obligatory to differentiate between a cerebral haemorrhage and an infarction. The first CT machine was installed at the National Hospital of Sri Lanka two decades ago and since then 19 more machines have been installed in state hospitals under the Ministry of Health. A brain scan is a basic investigation for stroke, equivalent to an ECG when diagnosing a myocardial infarction. Nevertheless, often, stroke victims from rural Sri Lanka are not scanned. Although it is clear that we need to have a few more CT machines, I wish to emphasize that we are in an era where all clinicians should routinely request a CT brain scan for all stroke patients. If it is a cerebral infarction there is an ischaemic penumbra that is dysfunctional but salvageable around the infarcted tissue. Thrombolysis with Recombinant Tissue Plasminogen Activator given within the first three hours is the specific form of treatment to salvage this ischaemic tissue. Treating patients with thrombolytics is associated with a greater reduction in death or dependency, equivalent to 126 fewer dead or dependent patients per 1000 patients treated. The convincing effectiveness of thrombolysis has led in some of the developed countries to rule that not offering thrombolytics to acute stroke patients in fact amounts to medical negligence. The first programme of thrombolysis in the public sector hospitals was initiated in Sri Lanka in March 2007 at the National Hospital. Since then all acute stroke admissions to the National Hospital were screened and 19% of the selected acute stroke victims were thrombolysed. The knowledge on the availability of a specific mode of treatment had led some of the affected to reach hospital within two hours even from a distance of 20 kms away. Nevertheless, non-availability of adequately allocated beds for stroke patients at the National Hospital of Sri Lanka hindered giving adequate publicity for this programme, depriving the treatment for a significant proportion of deserving patients. As at present thrombolysis is not available in any of the other public sector hospitals. Since thrombolysis was proven to be effective and more and more studies have confirmed its safety even in primary care settings with facilities for CT scanning, it is important to initiate programmes for this vital form of treatment at other large hospitals with CT facilities. Stroke, the brain equivalent of a heart attack, was first described by the father of medicine, Hippocrates more than 2,400 years ago. It was called "apoplexy" because of the way it strikes people down. 

 Later in the 1600s Jacob Wepfer from Switzerland found that patients who died with "apoplexy" had either bleeding into the brain or a blockage in one of the brain's blood vessels. Stroke strikes down 11 per 1,000 population in Sri Lanka and is the fifth leading cause of hospital deaths. All over the world it is the third leading cause of deaths. A majority of stroke deaths in Sri Lanka occur out of hospital and if they are included, stroke is likely to be the third leading cause of deaths. Stroke is the leading cause of adult disability and according to the World Health Organization loss of productivity caused by the disability and the cost involved in the management of stroke could be significant enough to have an impact on the economy of a country. Ageing being a risk factor, it is predicted that 20% of the population in Sri Lanka by 2020 would be more than 65 years old indicating that there will be a significant stroke burden for the country by that time. These factors highlight the value of restructuring stroke care and implementing a National Stroke Care Programme in Sri Lanka.



2009 and youAries– New employment opportunities. A year favourable for business activities. Problems concerning children and home-front will fade away. Favourable for education.

Taurus – Financial gains likely but may have to spend for various activities. Will gain from foreign investments. Foreign trips and other enjoyable journeys. May succeed in education. Act with determination.

Gemini –Financial gains for those living abroad. Opportunities to associate with important people. Will be interested in learning about other religions. Household and family problems will be solved after May. 

 Cancer– Financial gains but expenses will be high. Favourable for those employed in the private sector and also artistes. Marriage proposals for those who are unmarried. Will engage in social service.

Leo – Unexpected expenses. Hopes for new employment will be fulfilled. May come across difficulties in furthering your education. Foreign trips.

Virgo – Unnecessary expenditure. Will be interested in pursuing higher education. Be careful of accidents.

Libra – Promotions likely. Will be supported by relatives. Likely to purchase vehicles and property. Marriage arrangements can be fulfilled.

Scorpio – Problems in employment. Likely to go in search of new employment. The second half of the year is favourable for education. Purchase of property. Unnecessary expenditure.

Sagittarius- Heavy expenditure. Will invest in unproductive activities. Likely to change employment. Favourable for new businesses. Will turn to religious activities. Marriage arrangements can be fulfilled.

Capricorn – Heavy expenditure on legal matters. Not favourable for employment activities. More trips undertaken. Differences may arise between relatives. Drawbacks in education. Will concentrate on new projects.

Aquarius – Heavy expenditure. Will spend on religious activities. Change in employment. Likely to fall victim to fraudsters. Foreign trips. Will pursue a new course of study.

Pisces – Unexpected gains. Lost employment opportunities will be regained. Promotions likely. Success in competitive examinations. Will invest in new houses.



EventsThe 5th International Cancer Congress of SAARC Countries organized by the Sri Lanka College of Oncologists will be held on January 10 and 11 at the Mahaweli Reach Hotel, Kandy.

The meeting in Kandy would be a landmark event for the region as the draft constitution of the proposed SAARC Federation of Oncologists is to be formally announced here.

Extensive discussions on establishing a SAARC Federation of Oncologists were held at previous congresses held in Dhaka, Kathmandu, Goa and Karachchi, the President of the Sri Lanka College of Oncologists, Dr. Sarath Wattegama said.

The theme of the 2009 congress is 'Expanding horizons in cancer therapy and prevention'. The Chief Guest will be Dr. Peter Boyle, Director of the International Agency for Research on Cancer, World Health Organization, based in France.

Prof. Wimal Dissanayake will deliver a talk on the 'Three Stages in Sinhala Fictional Criticism' today at 3.45 p.m. at the Namel Malini Punchi Theatre, Borella, based on his latest work 'The Sinhala Novel and the Public Sphere: Three Illustrative Moments' to coincide with its launch today along with 'Unsought Mirror: Decline of the Novel' by Gunadasa Amarasekera.



