World's oldest person dies in Portugal at 115LISBON, Jan 2 (Reuters) - A Portuguese woman who was the world's oldest person died on Friday at the age of 115, a family member said.

Maria de Jesus was the world's oldest person since an American woman, Edna Parker, died in November at the age of 115 years and 220 days, according to the website (www.grg.org) of the Gerontology Research Group.

A family member said Maria de Jesus died in an ambulance on her way to hospital. She was being taken to hospital due to a swelling.

Maria de Jesus was born on Sept. 10, 1893. She reached 115 years and 114 days.



Grim New Year for John Travolta family as star's son diesNEW YORK, Jan 3 (AFP) -The family of Oscar-nominated Hollywood superstar John Travolta took a devastating emotional blow when his teenage son died Friday after a seizure while on a family vacation in the Bahamas, US media reported.

Jett Travolta, 16, had a history of seizures and suffered one "at around 10 am this morning," John Travolta's attorney, Michael Ossi, told CNN. "All attempts to revive him were unsuccessful.

"Young Jett Travolta was the only son of the 54-year-old Hollywood star -- also a trained jet pilot -- and actress Kelly Preston, 46. They have a daughter, Ella, aged eight.

Jett's death "was completely out of the blue," Ossi said on the news network's website. "This is the worst day of John's life.

"The precise cause of death was not known, Ossi said. After an autopsy the body will be buried in Ocala, Florida, he said. The family has a home in Ocala as well as in California.



Israeli assault on Gaza enters 2nd week with no end in sightGAZA City Jan 3 (AFP) -Israeli planes and ships pounded Gaza on Saturday as the assault on Hamas entered its second week, with the Islamists' leader promising a "black destiny" if ground troops are sent in.

Amid growing concern for the humanitarian condition in the densely-populated territory, the United States gave its close ally free rein to push on with a ground offensive, insisting that the key to a ceasefire is Israel's demand for Hamas to permanently halt rocket fire.

"I think any steps they are taking, whether it's from the air or on the ground or anything of that nature, are part and parcel of the same operation,"said White House spokesman Gordon Johndroe.

 "Those will be decisions made by the Israelis."

Hamas's Syrian-based chief Khaled Meshaal told Israel that "if you commit the stupidity of launching a ground offensive then a black destiny awaits you.

"You will soon find out that Gaza is the wrath of God," Meshaal said in pre-taped remarks as the death toll rose from bombing and concerns grew about the humanitarian situation in the Hamas-ruled Palestinian territory.

President George W. Bush, meanwhile, urged all able parties to press Hamas to stop firing on Israel to facilitate a lasting ceasefire.

"The United States is leading diplomatic efforts to achieve a meaningful ceasefire that is fully respected," Bush said in his weekly Saturday radio address, the text of which was released late on Friday.

"I urge all parties to pressure Hamas to turn away from terror, and to support legitimate Palestinian leaders working for peace."Bush said Hamas was responsible for the latest violence and rejected a unilateral ceasefire that would allow Hamas to continue to fire on Israel.

"This recent outburst of violence was instigated by Hamas -- a Palestinian terrorist group supported by Iran and Syria that calls for Israel's destruction," Bush said.

On the ground, Israeli tanks and troops stood ready along the 60 kilometre (37 mile) border with Gaza, waiting for the government's greenlight.

Warplanes and navy ships carried out 20 strikes against targets across the Gaza overnight on Saturday, hitting homes of senior Hamas figures and several of the group's coastal posts, the army said.



Israel and US refuse to admit Palestinians are with Hamas"The Goal is to defeat international terrorism. This is a noble goal, a sound goal .But this has to be done when all of us are equal parties and not follower." - Amr Moussa , Secretary General of the Arab League

As the rest of the world ushers in the New Year, heralded by the Christmas festivities, Gaza was reverberating with the return of the familiar fire from the skies. The unprovoked attack by Israel - at least there was no immediate incident(s) to justify an aerial bombing for several days - has been condemned by the rest of the world, with the near-exception of only the US and the UK. Even the US, while calling the Hamas, 'rogues', called for a ceasefire, after the UN asked Israel to stop attacking Gaza and its population. The reasons for the current escalation are not difficult to fathom. First of all, there is no common definition for terrorism. The second is the inability and unwillingness of Israel, and the US, to accept the legitimate electoral victory of Hamas in the Palestinian territories a couple of years ago, and act accordingly. The calculations of the US and Israel on the Palestine front failed when the moderate forces led by a weakened PLO failed to muster popular support. Having not used to handling Hamas, they did not know how to react other than to boycott the organization. It was against this background that a six-month Egyptian-brokered truce between Israel and Hamas, came to an end on Friday, December 19. Hamas charged Israel with violating the truce conditions, which included passage of humanitarian relief material to the Gaza population. Tel Aviv returned the compliment. It said that the phased enlargement of the truce was halted after Hamas violated the terms, which, among other conditions, called for an end to all rocket attacks targeting Israel. Palestine history over the past decades is replete with instances where Israel would violate ceasefires with impunity — and without paying heed to suggestions from the rest of the world. Israel has failed to stop settlement buildings in occupied territories for the Palestinian people to feel confident about doing continued business with Tel Aviv. The maltreatment of the Palestine population in the occupied areas is legion. Reports claim that as many as 300 bombs fell in the first three days of the Israeli attack on Gaza. So far more than 400 Palestinians have been killed and nearly 2000 injured, many of them grievously. In doing so, the Israeli Air Force deployed US-supplied F-16 fighters and Apache helicopters. The attackers are also believed to have dropped US-made GBU-39 smart bombs. Clearly, no known military base of the Hamas was targeted. It raises questions about the motive of the attack. Some analysts referring to past instances of the kind, believe that Israel is targeting Palestine civilian population to force them out of their habitats - so that Israel could extend its boundary and expand settlements. Clearly, Israel is not looking at a battle-victory, or seeking to silence the Hamas guns, which were not known to have boomed in recent weeks at the very least. This is not the first time such a massacre is taking place. Possibly, it would not be the last time, either. A similar attack took place in 2006, when Israel bombed southern Lebanon, then under the control of the Hezbollah, for 33 days in all. According to Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah , Hezbollah Secretary-General, the situation in the Gaza Strip was worse than the 2006 Israeli attack on Lebanon. "Today the people of Gaza have made their choice -- the choice of blood. They are resisting with firmness. Nothing will prevent them, without even anybody's help, from continuing with their resistance, despite bloodshed and martyrdom," Nasrallah said in a video address. A substantial section of the Palestinian population is on the side of the Hamas. This was reflected in the Hamas victory in the Palestinian parliamentary polls of 2006, when it won 76 of the total 132 seats. The Fatah, the party of the late Yasser Arafat and present Palestinian Authority President Mahmood Abbas, could win only 43 seats. An international team of monitors, including former US President Jimmy Carter, declared that the polls were free and fair. Yet, Israel refused to acknowledge the Hamas as the representative of the Palestine people. After dithering for a while, the US put its weight behind Israel, and not with the considered view of the rest of the international community. It remains to be seen if the US 'Middle East Policy' would witness any major change under the Obama presidency. The solution to the Palestinian crisis has been clear for long. Israel has to accept and respect the democratic rights of the Palestinian people as it is concerned about the life and liberty of its own population. It needs to acknowledge that the 'war on terror', as it keeps dubbing the Palestinian crisis, cannot have a military solution. To be charitable, having got the Palestinians where it wanted, Tel Aviv should have moved on the peace front with greater sincerity and commitment. As the victims in what is often dubbed a historic conflict dating back to centuries, the Palestinians are sure to feel dejected. Tel Aviv should have adopted a 'healing touch' policy towards the neighbour rather than gloat over military victory - and ask for more. Time is running out, yet it is not too late, as yet. * The writer is a journalist based in Colombo. He can be reached at ilangamuwa@gmail.com.



Humanity's stake in GazaAmman - Wasted time is always to be regretted. But in the Middle East, wasting time is also dangerous. Another year has now passed with little progress in bridging the divide between Palestinians and Israelis. The current air strikes on Gaza, and continuing rocket attacks on Askelon, Sderot and other towns in southern Israel, only prove how dire the situation is becoming. The security impasse that exists between Israel and the Gazan-Palestinian leadership has also led to blockades of food aid by Israel that have left Gaza's 1.5 million people facing conditions of real hunger. Israel, it seems, is once again emphasizing the primacy of "hard" security in its dealings with the Palestinians of Gaza, but this focus only serves to block non-violent opportunities for creative solutions to the Israel-Palestine dispute. A Palestinian carries a wounded girl following an Israeli air strike in Gaza city on January 1, 2009. AFP Making matters worse, Israeli politicians remain committed to further enlargement of Israel's West Bank settlements. Pushed to the wall in this way, many Palestinians are beginning to see no other option for fulfilling their national aspirations than radical tactics. Given that this risks renewed violence, it is critical that Israel's regional partners and international actors understand that Palestinians will not be diverted from their strategic objective of achieving an independent state. The Palestinian people will never abandon their national struggle. Both Israelis and Palestinians must understand that the mere application of force will never be enough to achieve their long-term ends. What is needed is a viable option for the opposing party to adopt in order for violence not to be deployed. Although force sometimes has its uses, a stable and lasting peace can be delivered only by an integrative, compromise solution. Conflict resolution, if it is to be successful, requires channeling the energy generated by conflict toward constructive and nonviolent alternatives. This diversion of the energy of war can take place at any stage of the cycle of escalation, but if preventive peace building is not launched at the first sign of trouble, and problems remain unaddressed as the conflict intensifies (especially if it turns violent), some type of intervention will be needed. Only then can conciliation, mediation, negotiation, arbitration, and collaborative problem-solving processes establish themselves. In the end, reconstruction and reconciliation are the only viable means to bring stability, since it cannot be imposed. None of this is surprising. But it begs the question of why there has not been a more concerted and concentrated focus on transforming the situation in Gaza and Palestine. An international protectorate for the area to protect the Palestinians from their own more dangerous elements, the Palestinians from the Israelis, and perhaps even the Israelis from themselves, has been proposed, but has received scant acknowledgement. It is this lack of a coordinated attempt to structure an agreement between Israelis and Palestinians - a structure based on an inclusive, interdisciplinary, and systemic approach that can shift the variables and lead to a peace that both peoples regard as equal and fair - that most concerns those of us who work in international crisis resolution. One key element in building up a structure for reconciliation must be economic growth. As the World Bank has emphasized repeatedly, there is a strong correlation between poverty and conflict. So bridging the human dignity deficit, the divide between haves and have-nots, will be essential to reaching any viable political settlement between Palestinians and Israelis. Yet the efforts here are piecemeal - and thus insufficient to offer real hope for better lives. Palestinians and Israelis need to establish viable dialogues across the huge social fissures that divide them, as well as dialogues between the authorities and ordinary people who live in a state of confusion about what is being done in their name. Trust needs to be rebuilt if we are to help the parties understand how to overcome past enmities. Only the beginning of public trust will allow problems to be correctly diagnosed and addressed. Of course, Israel's need for security must be understood by all sides, but confidence-building measures are needed from all sides as well. What is now needed most of all is a clear message that dialogue, not violence, is the way forward in these very tense times. In Gaza, mankind's basic morality is at stake. The suffering and wanton destruction of people's lives, the despair and absence of human dignity in this region have gone on for too long. The Palestinians of Gaza - indeed, all those across the region who lead blighted lives without hope - cannot wait for new administrations or international institutions to act. If the Fertile Crescent is not to become a futile crescent, we must wake up and find the moral courage and political vision for a quantum leap in Palestine. * Václav Havel is a former President of the Czech Republic, Prince Hassan bin Talal is President of the Arab Thought Forum and President Emeritus of the World Conference of Religions for Peace, Hans Küng is President of the Foundation for a Global Ethic (Stiftung Weltethos) and Professor Emeritus of Ecumenical Theology at the University of Tübingen, Yohei Sasakawa is a President of the Sasakawa Peace Foundation, Desmond Tutu is a winner of the Nobel Peace Prize, Karel Schwarzenberg is Foreign Minister of the Czech Republic.



UN complicty in the massacreThe line from Bob Dylan's immortal song 'Blowin' in the Wind' made famous by legends like Stevie Wonder and the trio Peter, Paul and Mary and himself among others takes on a new and poignant relevancy in the context of Israel's vicious attacks on the Palestinians in Gaza. The man who is supposed to see the misery of the Palestinians and do something to redress their plight as they suffer yet another Israeli pogrom is the UN secretary general Ban Ki Moon. Instead he comes in front of TV cameras and repeats the mantra that Israel has the right to defend itself against terror and then went on to blame regional players who he claims have not done enough to bring peace to the Middle East with nary a word of criticism of Israel. United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon makes a statement about the situation in Gaza. AFP Obviously he is unaware of the Arab push for peace in the Middle East in 1992 on condition that Israel retreats to its 1967 borders as outlined in one of the many UN resolutions. But Israel and its main sponsor, the United States, rejected this offer. When Moon criticises any other nation, he does not have to preface his comments with the usual mantra like the right of states to defend themselves from external threats. But with Israel he has to be careful. He is supposed to - in fact required by the UN mandate - to bring Israeli leaders to book and to ensure peace in the world. But we have him shifting the blame on Israel's current atrocity in Gaza on anybody but the perpetrators of the crime. Here we have Israel ignoring all UN resolutions that have been passed since the world body created the Jewish state. Ban ki-Moon's UN should apply pressure on Israel to abide by these resolutions especially the one which created two states out of historical Palestine, one for the European Jews and the other for the natives of Palestine who had lived on this land for as long as history can remember. Israel celebrated its 60th anniversary a few months ago. Israel has gone beyond its demarcated borders and is the only state that has no defined boundaries. Palestine has still to emerge 60 years after the UN resolution was passed. 'How many years can some people exist before they are allowed to be free' The UN secretary general would be uncomfortable making any demands of Israel. Maybe he might even lose his job if he does that... For Israel controls the UN via the US as is detailed by Phyllis Bennis in her book 'Calling the Shots - How Washington Dominates Today's UN'. Any other country outside the Western hemisphere would have faced punitive sanctions had it behaved in the same way Israel has. Cases in point are Zimbabwe, Iraq, Iran and Cuba. Virtually all Israeli leaders have committed crimes against humanity. In this case humanity is the Palestinians, so maybe an unwritten law exists that makes them lesser human beings and thus disqualified for justice. A couple of Israeli leaders have been awarded the Noble Peace Prize even though there is no peace to talk about. Rwandan and Serbian leaders have been hauled before the World Court for similar if not lesser crimes. Then compare the response of leaders of the Western world when people all over the globe protested against China's tough policy on Tibet with that of the response the same leaders and people have shown to Israel's savagery in Gaza and you have a picture of a lopsided reaction. The protests against China were plainly meant to embarrass the nation prior to the Beijing Olympics. Even a schoolboy knew that. Leaders like Angela Merkel, Nicolas Sarkozy, Gordon Brown and George Bush among others showed their displeasure at various public forums and even threatened to boycott the opening ceremony. Supporting its leaders, the Western media painted the town red with an anti China propaganda blitz Today the very same leaders and the same media are quite oblivious of what Israel is doing in Gaza preferring to blame the victim for the crimes of the villain. As if this was not bad enough, they paint the Palestinian resistance as acts of terrorism. In terms of the Geneva Conventions - if they are still valid -- people have the right to resort to violence to rid their country from an occupying force. The rest of the world is required to support such a cause. Instead we have the whole world turning against the Palestinians as they fight all alone for their land - the land tilled for them by their forefathers since time began. 'How many deaths will it take till we know that too many people have died'? Bob Dylan's words echo in my ears as Al-Jazeera shows more grotesque pictures of little Palestinian children as they are placed in a morgue. * The writer is the vice-president of the Sri Lanka Committee for Solidarity with Palestine.



The universe is yours to discover in the International Year of AstronomyWith 2009 just over the horizon, stargazers around the world are busy preparing for the International Year of Astronomy. A staggering 135 nations collaborate on bringing the Universe closer to Earth. Events and activities will take place over the coming 365 days and beyond, in a spectacle of cosmic proportions. The International Year of Astronomy 2009 (IYA2009) has been launched by the International Astronomical Union (IAU) and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) under the theme, "The Universe, yours to discover". During 2009, the sky will provide some exciting events, including the longest total solar eclipse of the 21st century, occurring on July 22 and lasting 6 minutes 39 seconds. The official IYA2009 Opening Ceremony will take place in Paris on 15 and 16 January 2009. It will feature keynote speakers, including Nobel Laureates, and live video feeds to scientists working in remote locations. Many nations are holding their own Opening Ceremonies in January and February, showing their dedication to the Year. But events will begin before then. Don't be surprised to see telescopes on the streets on New Year's Day. The IYA2009 Solar Physics Group has been busy planning a grand worldwide campaign, with more than 30 countries involved at more than 150 venues, which will see amateur stargazers set up their telescopes on pavements as well as in science centres, letting passers-by observe the Sun using special safety equipment. The National Node of Sri Lanka for IYA2009 chaired by Prof. Kavan Ratnatunga, in collaboration with six astronomical related institutions, will bring various astronomy related programs for all levels throughout the year 2009. 100 Hours of Astronomy, another IYA2009 Cornerstone project, is a worldwide event taking place from 2-5 April 2009, with a wide range of public outreach activities including live webcasts, observing events and more. One of the key goals of 100 Hours of Astronomy is to have as many people as possible look through a telescope, just as Galileo did for the first time 400 years ago. There will be observing sessions taking place in Sri Lanka on April 3 throughout the country with more than 30 schools. The From Earth to the Universe (FETTU) another IYA2009 Cornerstone project is an exhibition arranged by the IYA2009 that will bring large-scale astronomical images to a wide public audience in non-traditional venues such as public parks and gardens, art museums, shopping malls and metro stations. There will be a collection of images displayed in public places in Sri Lanka as well. One of IYA2009's aims is to raise awareness of light pollution, and how the beauty of the night sky is progressively being drowned out, particularly over urban areas. The project Dark Skies Awareness is tackling these issues head-on in a practical, inclusive manner. One way in which it is doing this is by holding star-counting events, where the public are encouraged to see how many stars in a particular area of the sky are actually visible from their location. When compared with data from truly dark sites, the results are often very surprising! The "How Many Stars" event will run from this month. A list of event highlights is available on the official IYA2009 - Sri Lanka website, http://aalk.lakdiva.net/iya2009/projects/. During 2009, the sky will provide some exciting events, including the longest total solar eclipse of the 21st century, occurring on July 22 and lasting 6 minutes 39 seconds over a narrow corridor through countries including India, Bangladesh and China. A strong shower of Leonid meteors is also expected in mid-November 2009, with forecasters predicting upwards of an incredible 500 shooting stars per hour. In mid-October in the northern hemisphere, Jupiter will be placed at dusk, a perfect time to show public the giant planet and its moons.



Where have the voices of Indo-Pak peace gone?From where do I start? And how do I start? One thing is sure that it has been a long haul. I am referring to people-to-people contact which we fostered like a gardener tending a sapling. My tryst with friendly relations between India and Pakistan goes back to September 13, 1947. That was the day when I crossed the border at Wagha after journeying from Sialkot, my hometown. I had seen murder and worse. Like millions of refugees, I too had been broken on the rack of history. My resolve was to make the border soft so that the people I had left behind-they were similar-could come to India and we to Pakistan without the hassle of passport or visa. But I found to my horror that anyone talking about good relations was dubbed a Pakistani agent in India and an Indian agent in Pakistan. Still my job was easier than those in Pakistan because the democratic polity on this side had given us an open society and an environment where we could criticize India whenever it was harsh on Pakistan. In comparison, India was a better place for meeting the likeminded from Pakistan. Slowly and gradually, personal relations began to fructify into relations between the two countries. Governments remained distant and they had their "track" for getting together the pro-establishment men to say their respective government's piece. It too helped because there was a meeting of those who knew the official line and to what extent the participants could go. What really gave me strength was the visit to Lahore some 16 years ago. I had just checked into a city hotel when Khurshid Kasuri, who later became Pakistan's Foreign Minister, rang me up to convey that Benazir Bhutto wanted me to meet her. I requested him to pick me up. He came within a few minutes and I accompanied him to his house in the cantonment where Benazir was presiding over a meeting of 23 parties wanting restoration of democracy in Pakistan. She made me sit next to her and said softly: We, the political parties, would never be able to normalize relations between Pakistan and India. You (the people) would be able to do so one day provided you did not give up your efforts. Nawaz Sharif, who was then the Prime Minister, endorsed her thinking when I interviewed him. He said he would help me in the endeavour. He did so in his own way. That was the year when I collected a few persons from Delhi and a few from Amritsar, in all 15, to light candles at the Wagah gate on the midnight of August 14-15, the time when India and Pakistan became independent. As the ceremony was held every year on the same night, the crowd grew bigger and bigger. In 2007, there were roughly 3 lakh people on this side of the border, raising the slogan: Long Live India-Pakistan Dosti (friendship). We did not provide any transport, any meals and not even cold water. People sat in the open and enjoyed the Punjabi music. Top artistes would come to sing because it was considered prestigious to appear from that stage. We invited National Assembly members from Pakistan to participate in the function. Once Pakistan's Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi was one of the guests. He talked about peace then. But today he says that Pakistan is fully prepared for war. To our regret, none would show up on the other side when we lighted candles at the Wagah gate. Some time the Jammat-e-Islami kept the peace activists in Pakistan away from reaching the border and some time the authorities did so. The media on this side made much of the Pakistanis' absence at the other side. It came to be dubbed a one-sided effort. This year some 50 people, men and women, from Pakistan came right up to the gate. We opened the gate but they could not. We exchanged candles and talked to each other. This was clear evidence that democracy had returned to Pakistan. But it is a pity that the Mumbai attack has also come in the same year. The entire atmosphere has changed overnight. Hardliners have overtaken us. And when New Delhi declared to curtail the number of visas to be issued from the Indian High Commission at Islamabad, people-to-people contact had a question mark against it. In an interview to a television network I had to admit that the terrorist attack on Mumbai demolished my work of 16 years in no time. When there is no option except peace between the two countries, why the hype and jingoism which the media, particularly the television channels, have built up? Why do democratic forces come to talk in the same vein as the dictators do? Why does the fledging democracy in Pakistan begin to behaving like General Pervez Musharraf did during his rule-all denials? I commend Asma Jehangir who said at Delhi that the terrorists were the Pakistanis and that the Asif Ali Zardari government should begin taking action against them instead of denying that they were Pakistanis. And how does one explain the statement by General Asfaq Parvez Kiyani, chief of the army staff that Pakistan would retaliate within minutes of India's attack on Pakistan.. There is no political party or lobby talking about war. Why is he queering the pitch? The bigger question which remains unanswered is why do peace activists become silent when they see the warlike atmosphere taking shape. This is the time when they should have been most active. In fact, some of them have turned into hawks. Is there no commitment to peace whatever the environment? From where do I begin now? When I embarked on the journey I was in the morning of my life. Now when the destination has become more distant, I am in the evening of my life. Where have the voices for peace gone? Where are those who sat all night talking and went straight to the bus stand to go to their country? We have failed so many times earlier and have still got engaged in people-to-people contact quickly. Why do I feel despondent this time? Have I got disillusioned or simply tired? Or is it what Faiz Ahmad Faiz described as: Lambi hai gham ki shaam, magar shaam hi to hai (the night of grief is long, but it is only a night long). * The writer is a veteran Indian journalist and former MP. He is also a one-time diplomat.



